mr president, i have just returned from sri lanka and would like to place on the record my gratitude to the peoples of europe and the people of my own country, britain, for their enormous generosity and the goodwill they have shown in the last few weeks. as a consequence of this, i would like to ask you whether you would entertain a proposal which is not contained in the substantive text of the resolution we have tabled, but which mr tajani also supports: we, as members, should make a contribution to the tsunami victims. we could commit something from our own incomes – perhaps a day's earnings – and ask the peoples of europe to give maybe five hours' earnings, or one hour's earnings, or a day's earnings, in order to help reconstruct these devastated areas. this is the worst calamity to hit humanity since the second world war. five million people are homeless and we have to respond to the mood of the peoples of europe, who have been so overwhelmingly generous.
mr president, like mr deva, i have immediate family in the affected area of south india, and members of my family are helping cope with the disaster. they have asked me to send the message to this house that there are very practical things we can do to help people in their misery. one would be to recognise that there are literally hundreds of thousands of eu residents of sri lankan, indian, indonesian or thai origin awaiting the outcome of decisions for citizenship of the union who are too afraid to travel back to their countries of origin. many of these people, whom i have met, have lost family members and have had their properties destroyed, but they are not aware that they can leave their member states while decisions are being made on their immigration status. many other members have encountered such people. i should like to ask that we send a message from this house asking the council to ensure that home ministries of eu member states treat these people with great sympathy and ensure that they can return to the european union and piece together their lives. let us not compound their misery by ignoring their plight.
mr president, firstly, i fully support mr deva, who agreed with you that we should respond as an institution, but also said that we as members would like to make our own response. even if this is on a voluntary basis, perhaps it is an idea we could take up later, in the bureau. christmas came very early in northern ireland this year for a certain group of people when they robbed the northern bank of gbp 26.5 million, which i understand amounts to eur 36.5 million, making it the largest bank robbery ever to take place in the british isles. the chief constable of the northern ireland police service has been very clear and concise in blaming sinn féin/ira for this robbery. that is very interesting, because at the very time that sinn féin/ira were negotiating peace in northern ireland and a way forward for a new government, they were also planning the greatest ever robbery in the british isles. i totally condemn this, and condemn their holding two families hostage for over 24 hours. they have destroyed any prospect of a peaceful solution in northern ireland in the short term. they are not fit to sit in government with anyone else. they have shown this on numerous occasions – in colombia and in countless other areas – through their extra-democratic actions. you cannot be a democrat by day and a criminal and thug by night. that is what i object to. why did they do it? they did it because they knew that no-one would do anything to them – that neither the british nor the government of the republic of ireland would have the guts to tell them their time is up and that they have to become democrats if they want to take part in government.
(the speaker spoke in irish.) in the week that mr nicholson is to present his report on the extension of the peace programme to 2006, i would urge my fellow meps to support this. i would ask you, mr president, to convey to the council and commission our wish that this matter be processed speedily, once parliament's assent has been secured. this will have an immediate and positive impact on people and projects at the coal-face of peace­building in ireland. of course, peace funding cannot be allocated on the basis of religious or political affiliation, but only on the basis of need. (the speaker continued in irish.) i wish to thank the european union for its support. i am a little disappointed at mr nicholson's comments today. i do not think they will add anything to the peace process.
mr president, the house will have noticed that when the ira's representative in this house, ms de brún, spoke, she had no condemnation to offer in respect of her associates' robbery of 26 million pounds in belfast. in the light of her party's association with that robbery, she indulged in the utmost hypocrisy by appealing to the european union for funding. if ms de brún wants to talk about funding, then let her start with her party's ill-gotten gains from the northern bank. i am also very disappointed that, at a time when ordinary people throughout the world are digging deep into their pockets, this week the eu intends to waste millions of euros on celebrating the new constitution. that is in shameful bad taste at this time in this world. i very much regret that the notice you have sent to us about celebratory matters contains notices of 'debates' on the european constitution tomorrow and wednesday with television and the press. debate to me means the opportunity for both sides to present their arguments.
mr president, at the beginning of this part-session we quite rightly held one minute's silence for the terrible losses in asia. at times of such major devastation, smaller tragedies tend to go unnoticed. over the past weekend, the city of carlisle and the region of cumberland have witnessed horrendous flooding following severe storms as well as the deaths of elderly people. i should like to ask you in your capacity as president to send a letter to the mayor of carlisle expressing our solidarity with the people of the city and of the county, and also to ask the commission whether it can afford any help at this time of crisis for those people.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, if the results of the conference of parties in buenos aires are better than expected, the commission's expectations must have been very low when they started out. the commissioner has now been baptised into the hard world of climate change negotiations. i hope it has given him a taste for resolving the problems and bringing the world together behind a common purpose. the people of carlisle are today having to cope with the worst floods on record, an unparalleled deluge of rain having fallen in recent days. i hope that the house will join me in paying tribute to the emergency services, the voluntary organisations and many individuals for the work that they have undertaken in trying to alleviate the situation and, in particular, for their efforts in helping the elderly and others in greatest difficulty. it is not possible to declare with certainty that these floods are an indication of global warming, but extreme weather events have been highlighted as one of the consequences of climate change. events in carlisle are one reason why it is so important that the eu should continue to lead the world in developing policies to combat the effects of global warming. the british government has declared in recent weeks that it is determined to ensure that the issue of climate change is high on its agenda when it assumes the presidency, so it is frankly astonishing that the same government is putting at risk the successful launch of the emissions trading scheme, europe's most important measures to reduce emissions of global warming gases. the uk's national allocation plan was submitted by its government and approved by the commission last july. three months later, britain was back with a revised plan that calls for bigger and more generous allowances, far larger than those demanded by any other government. it is threatening legal action if the plans are not approved. that seems an extraordinary demonstration of either incompetence or bad faith. it makes the fine words of the british government sound very hollow. before the commissioner finishes this debate, i should like him to tell the house just what the current situation is. as things stand, is the uk in the emissions trading scheme or not? do your legal offices, commissioner, tell you that the uk has a real case, or does final approval of the emissions trading scheme allocations rest with the commission, as the directive says? do the current position and the delays incurred present real problems for the success of the emissions trading scheme in the long term? i hope that the commissioner will be able to respond to these points. i hope he understands that he will not be condemned by all uk representatives if he takes a very firm stand on this issue.
commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr medina ortega, for a report prepared to a very tight schedule. let me recall that the area of motor insurance is a very good example of efficient cooperation between parliament and the commission. parliament’s resolution of july 2001, prepared the ground for the commission to bring forward its proposal for a fifth motor insurance directive. this shows very clearly that parliament and the commission are both aware of the practical importance of this legislation and i would like to thank the parliament for its support in improving the legislation in this area. the proposal before us aims to introduce legislation that will affect millions of european citizens: drivers and potential victims of accidents, as well as, of course, insurers. it will make it easier for drivers to obtain insurance and will improve the protection of accident victims. i would like to stress that the common position adopted by the council is a balanced and coherent text that retains the key elements of the commission’s proposal and meets most of the concerns expressed by parliament at first reading. i therefore recommend that parliament accept, insofar as possible, the common position as it stands. we have to realise that we cannot achieve everything now. this is the fifth motor insurance directive and it will not be the last. before 20 july 2005, the commission must submit to parliament and the council a report on the implementation of article 6 of the fourth motor insurance directive. as part of its review, the commission could also examine other points which cannot be resolved in the context of the fifth motor insurance directive. it is in this spirit that i would like to respond to the amendments currently before parliament. the commission could accept amendments 4 and 11, which improve the wording of the text. however, the commission is not in a position to accept any of the other proposed amendments as tabled. further work is needed before these amendments can be accepted and the commission stands ready to discuss these amendments with you and the council before your vote on wednesday. let me explain the reasons why i see difficulties with the other amendments. the commission already pointed to these at first reading. amendments 7 and 14, which aim to create a public internet site in each member state that would collect police reports of accidents, interfere with matters relating to police or judicial legislation. i understand the concern and welcome the efforts to improve the amendments by replacing the creation of a central body with an internet site. however, as drafted, this proposal still goes beyond the specific scope and the legal basis of the motor insurance directives. it may also interfere with requirements governing the protection of personal data. the commission is nevertheless ready to examine this matter further with a view to improving access by the parties involved in an accident to the official records of the accident, particularly if the accident occurs in a state other than the state of residence of the parties concerned. with regard to amendments 2, 9 and 13, which aim to ensure that the cost of legal proceedings should be covered by compulsory insurance, we must bear in mind that this would overlap with the voluntary insurance regulated in the directive on legal expenses insurance (87/344/eec). moreover, making such insurance compulsory would increase the cost of insurance for all consumers and could encourage abusive lawsuits instead of an out-of-court settlement of accidents. this would increase the cost of insurance in a number of member states. however, the commission recognises the need for insured persons to have access to legal redress if necessary. the costs of this could be prohibitive if not covered by an insurance policy. the commission is therefore willing to consider the possibilities for making the offer of such insurance more widespread. the intention behind amendments 1, 5, 8 and 15 on trailers is unclear. trailers, independently of their weight, are already expressly covered by the insurance directives within the definition of a vehicle and therefore are subject to compulsory insurance. any problem relating to the identification or registration of vehicles cannot be solved within the framework of an insurance directive. it also appears that the problems concerning trailers do not exist in a number of member states where untowed trailers are registered and separately insured. if it is helpful, the commission would be prepared to examine this matter further as part of its review of the fourth motor insurance directive. as for amendments 3 and 10, i am afraid these will lead to a reduction in the insurance cover. indeed, a combination of eur 1 million per victim and eur 5 million per event would be less favourable than the text in the common position, which creates an option and refers to 'claim' rather than to 'event'. i therefore believe that the text of the common position is better. finally, i am not sure that amendments 6 and 12 are really needed. the possibility for victims of motor accidents to bring legal proceedings against the insurer in their member state of residence is now covered in recital 24 and article 5 of the common position following the concern expressed by parliament at first reading. i believe that with further effort it will be possible to find common ground and avoid an unnecessary conciliation procedure. the commission is ready to help and counts on your support to bring this matter to a successful close.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i should like to welcome commissioner mccreevy on this, his first appearance in this chamber in response to a debate on the internal market. i am sure my colleagues very much look forward to further encounters. if he adopts the constructive approach he has this evening in response to our amendments, then i believe we shall get on very well together and do a lot of successful work. i should like to make a few introductory remarks before moving on to the substance of the second reading. given that it is quite some time since the first reading, it is important to pay tribute to our colleague, mr rothley, who retired from parliament at the last elections but worked on these insurance directives over a long period. i was closely involved in this work from 2001, but am a mere junior given the amount of work he has done. we should put on record, on behalf of europe's motorists and unfortunate accident victims, our tribute to him for his persistent work in pressing the commission and the council to keep improving the motor vehicle insurance regime. as you said, commissioner, we are on the fifth directive, but we are already thinking about the sixth directive because this is a complex subject. in many ways it goes to the heart of the mission of those of us who want to see the internal market completed, because it has been very much a policy of continuous improvement. as we have moved forward, so issues have cropped up. we have asked you to tackle them and i am pleased to say that you have. you identified in your speech, commissioner, a number of the real benefits to the consumer, which we do not want to become obscured in detailed discussion. for example, in the single market, where people are becoming more mobile and taking their motor vehicle with them, they will be able to take their car with them without insurance problems when they move for temporary stays as students or in their professional lives. we hope there will be a lot more benefits once the internal market for services directive is approved – as i am sure it will be – because there will be many more people travelling around, delivering services from one country to another. similarly, if people want to buy cars during the course of their professional or personal life and bring those back, that will also be made easier. their rights, when moving from one country to another, in respect of retaining their all-important no claims bonuses or their policy statements, are important details to get right. i believe we have done that. as shadow rapporteur to my friend and colleague mr medina ortega, i wish to thank him for picking up the reins on this. i see mrs de vits is here. she has also been very helpful in our work to move this matter forward. commissioner, we look forward to meeting with you and the council before we vote on wednesday because, as you said, i am sure we can reach agreement on the substantial points. i warmly welcome your suggestion that the whole issue of trailers should be looked at by you in conjunction with your mid-year communication. that is the right way to treat this subject. we have not had full information. i share your worries that the amendments we tabled actually worsen the position and are rather confusing. so, a time for reflection would be helpful. we should take up the commission's offer in that respect. with regard to a number of the other details, we will sit around the table with you tomorrow, and am sure we will be able to deal with these because, above all, we are so close to agreement. given the lapse of time since the first proposal by mr rothley, i want europe's motorists, europe's consumers and the unfortunate victims of accidents to have the best possible service. i hope we will move forward on the database and internet proposal to make information readily available, but overall i believe that the proposal we have is a good one. i commend it very much to my colleagues and look forward to reaching agreement tomorrow so that we can move this matter forward.
mr president, this is indeed a first for most of us here. it is a first for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, a first for the commissioner, and perhaps also a first for a new style of politics in this chamber, where we are now, in a way, engaging in anticipatory politics and attempting to reach agreements ahead of, or at the point of, second reading, rather than looking forward to the trench warfare that traditionally followed in the codecision procedure. if we can make progress tomorrow on that basis, it would be a very happy augury for the way – as mr harbour puts it – that we do business with you, commissioner, and with each other. i do not need to repeat mr harbour's encomia – i merely endorse them. but i would just say to the rapporteur that we should salute him for returning from asia and seeing and experiencing the tsunami at first hand. it is not every day, or every year, that one would want to do that. on the other hand, we want to be here, every day, doing this. i entirely agree with what has been said by other speakers. again, i do not need to repeat that this ideally combines both the processes of the internal market and the way in which we all provide employment and interest for each other in the age of the motor car, but it also brings a measure of consumer protection in all aspects of this fifth directive. i would like to point to three things here and say to commissioner mccreevy that, in a way, this process resembles the training of spies. there was a procedure called 'following from in front', and, in a way, we are following him from in front. we are trying to anticipate now what he will be saying to us over the rest of the week. we hear very clearly what he says about trailers. many member states have different definitions, but we all know that if a declaration is forthcoming, we will be able to reach some kind of agreement, over time, on a common concept of 'trailer' among the member states. it is rather like that nice american film 'the straight story', where it was established that if a lawn mower travelled on roads it became a road-using vehicle, even if it was not before. road-using vehicles have to be covered. they have to be insured. we have to make quite a gentle start on the issue of insurance. we must not pile draconian penalties on 25 member states which, at the moment, have very different systems of insurance and, indeed, very different income levels. so we hear what you say there. my last point is on the issue of the third pillar. here too, in terms of the alternative wording which i know you are going to put to us tomorrow, we have secured realistic options. i am confident we can find a compromise which achieves what all of us want, and can avoid what some of us fear by way of third pillar considerations. if my member state can be relaxed about that, then anybody can.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i would like to echo the comments and words of tribute to mr rothley from mr harbour, and also to thank mr medina for taking this matter over. motor insurance directives deal with the greatest incidence of cross-border activity that directly affects the lives of many of our citizens, especially when problems occur: when they have an accident in another member state. it is this issue of accidents that i wish to concentrate on. it seems to me that there are two outstanding items on which there are still differences between us, which i too hope we can solve. i want to highlight the practicality of what parliament's amendments seek to achieve by reference to the case of one of my constituents, which is sadly by no means a unique story and shows why we have to deal with these issues. this lady and her partner had a motorbike accident five years ago in another country. he was killed, she was seriously injured. the other party was the subject of criminal proceedings. after five years of lawyers' costs and problems, still there was no offer of compensation. finally, with pressure on the insurers from myself, we got an offer. she has huge lawyers' costs in two countries. she has trailed backwards and forwards to a foreign country for medical examination. that cannot be the way that these matters should have to be dealt with, but it is not an uncommon story. the legal aid directive that we have is so minimal that it will not help with legal costs in these sorts of cases. most insurers offer some form of legal expense insurance for a fairly minimal premium – say, eur 15 per year. why not make that compulsory? if we cannot make the insurance compulsory, can we at least make the offer of such insurance compulsory, so that there is some hope for people like my constituent? we have to make sure that the amount of cover is sufficient. linked to this question is that of being able to bring proceedings in your own member state. if my constituent had been able to do that, life would have been very much easier. that right exists if you read the motor insurance directives and the brussels regulation together – it is a matter of fact. if it is a matter of fact, why are we not prepared to be transparent about this and tell our citizens, in the body of this directive, that they have that right? i do not see the problem. these amendments are founded on a genuine wish to make our citizens' lives better when they find themselves in these tragic and vulnerable circumstances.
author.– madam president, i am very grateful to the commissioner for being here to help us with this question. originally, it was to be put to the council and the commission together, because the proposal, which has passed its first reading in parliament, has been blocked in the council for far too long. the purpose of the question and debate was to get the council to explain why it is blocked and what it is doing to move it forwards and get it back to parliament to benefit the public. unfortunately, the conference of presidents, in its wisdom, has readjusted this proposal for this debate and we are now putting the question to the commission only. the council is not here at all, but i suppose that half a debate is better than none! this is a proposal on sales promotions. in each of the 25 member states there are different national laws about what is permitted – loss leaders, three for two, giving away free samples. there is no single internal market in the rights of retailers who cross frontiers to operate with the same offers and commercial tools right across the union. the original commission proposal – a thoroughly good one – was to have a single market in sales promotion techniques. this goes back originally to the 1992 single market proposal. as far as i know, this was first proposed in a green paper in 1996 – eight years ago. it passed its first reading in 2002 – two-and-a-half years ago – but, since then, we have been waiting for the council to move. there are obvious benefits if we can get this through. more competition and choice for the public, lower prices and more transparency. for retailers, there would be more flexibility across the whole single market, and another tool for marketing and doing business, creating wealth and generating jobs. but so long as we do not have cross-border facilities here, costs are higher because retailers have to market different plans for each of the 25 member states. the recent report on the lisbon strategy highlighted the internal market as one of the priorities, and this is part of the internal market. there are concerns about the treatment of children and small businesses, and that would be part of the proposal that we are anxious to deal with. the questions i must put to the commissioner are twofold – the council meets in secret and parliament cannot be there, but at least the commissioner gets to sit in the council, so he can tell us what is going on. firstly, how can we move this through the council and get it moving again for the benefit of the citizens? secondly, since the proposal was drawn up some years ago, the euro has flourished and e-commerce – trading via the internet – has developed enormously, the committee would like to know whether the proposal as originally put forward by the commission is still valid today or has been overtaken by events? also, do the proposed directive on services and the proposed directive on unfair commercial practices interfere with the original proposal on sales promotions? we would like a new view on where the sales promotion directive now stands. does it need revision or do we just need to push the council into action as fast as possible?
author.– mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr newton dunn, who has taken over what we hope will be the rapporteurship for the second reading, for encouraging us to work together to move this question. it was a shame we could not get the whole committee's support, but it is nevertheless important that we give you, commissioner, the opportunity to hear where we stand on this. i would like to reflect on one or two points, to build on what mr newton dunn said about the economic importance of this issue. those of us who want to push for the completion of the internal market as the cornerstone of the lisbon strategy, as set out in the kok report and in so many reports from the council, would like you to tell us from the inside why it is that member state governments, whose prime ministers attend these great council meetings and make statements about the importance of completing the internal market – and particularly the internal market for services – are extraordinarily reluctant, when invited to give consumers the opportunity to access sales promotions, discount offers and other product promotions offered in another country of the european union, to make these available to their own consumers? i pay tribute to mr brinkhorst, the dutch minister for economic affairs, because i know he took the sales promotion regulation very seriously and was equally baffled about the lack of progress. i recall that he told our committee that we had surely reached the stage in the development of the internal market where member states have to start trusting each other. what could be more fundamental when asking for trust than saying that consumer protection legislation which allows sales promotions in one country, is equally applicable to another? how can the attitudes of consumers in one country to promotions which they are allowed to access, whether it is a discount promotion or a promotional game, or an annual sale at a certain time, differ from those in another? we have an extraordinary situation in which, within markets that are very close together, there are different conditions in stores because of different sales promotion regulations. the bafflement that has led to this question arises from wondering how member states can say they are serious about creating an internal market and serious about having a single regulation on unfair commercial practices, when they are unwilling to allow consumers to access these rights and trust each other. that is the fundamental question. commissioner, i imagine you are as baffled about it as we are. together we may be able to solve some of the problems.
rapporteur.– mr president, the enlargement of the european union means we are having to upgrade from driving a minibus, capable of taking 15 passengers, to a full-sized bus, capable of taking 25, with some spare seats to take on new passengers in due course. this larger bus needs a stronger motor if we are not to slow down, and one that enables us to cross the difficult hills that lie on our path. if we are to have a stronger motor, we will also occasionally need stronger brakes - perhaps an emergency brake - and better safety features too, such as a safety belt on each seat. since we are upgrading, we should also have more comfortable seats so that every passenger feels at home and comfortable in this bus. also, while we are at it, why not have a geo-satellite positioning system so we always know exactly where we are on the roadmap and can better plan the journeys we want to take together by the most efficient and comfortable route? that is why we need a new set of rules for the european union: a new constitution to replace the current constitutional order and the set of overlapping treaties. in concrete terms this means a set of improvements that the committee on constitutional affairs and your rapporteurs have identified as falling into four main categories. first, it means greater clarity as to what the union is, how it works and functions. under this heading one can identify a single treaty instead of the several overlapping treaties – a single, clearer document that spells out more clearly the objectives and the values of the union and its competences, what it is responsible for and what it is not responsible for, and how it works, with fewer and clearer procedures. this will make it easier for citizens to see and to understand what our union is about. we will get rid of the distinction between 'union' and 'community', which nobody except lawyers understands, creating a single legal entity. it makes it clear that we are not creating some huge monolithic monster – the mythology of the superstate that some people seem to fear. it is clear that we are not creating a centralised union. second, it will provide for a more effective union – a union capable of deciding and acting with 25 member states. it will make for more qualified majority voting and more continuity in the chairmanship of the european council. there will be a single foreign minister to speak for the union to the outside world, instead of the commission speaking on some issues and the high representative of the council on others, which meant that third countries never knew whom they had to deal with. those posts will be merged into a single position. third, and most important in my view, it will provide more democracy and accountability in the union. under the constitution, all legislation will be subject first to the prior scrutiny of national parliaments, and then the double control of the council and the european parliament at european level, such that both have to approve virtually every item of european legislation. frankly, this makes the european union the most democratic international structure, or supranational structure, that exists in the world. compare the eu to the imf, to the world bank, to the wto or to any other international structure: none of them have or will have this degree of parliamentary input and of parliamentary scrutiny. we should be proud of the democracy that exists at the heart of this union. the constitution will significantly reinforce that democracy by extending codecision, by giving parliament the right to elect the president of the commission and by improving parliamentary control over the commission and the so-called comitology system for delegated secondary legislation. fourth, the constitution introduces greater rights for citizens through the charter of fundamental rights, which has been incorporated into the constitution. this, of course, applies only in the field of competence of european union law, but that is a significant field of competence, and all european legislation henceforth will have to comply with that charter. all of this has led us to conclude that the constitution is, to quote the committee's report, a 'vast improvement'. it is a vast improvement on the current treaties and on the current constitutional order. it merits our support. these improvements are due in no small part to the input of the european parliament into the convention and the igc. we can be proud of our results. it is a compromise. it is not a utopian treaty. all of us would have written it slightly differently had we had carte blanche to write it ourselves, but as a compromise package it is a distinct improvement. i am confident that tomorrow parliament will endorse it by an overwhelming majority. this parliament, elected by citizens across the whole of europe, with parties from left to right across the political spectrum, parties in government and parties in opposition, will send a powerful signal if it endorses the constitution tomorrow by an overwhelming majority. i am confident it will. (applause)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, mr poettering properly reminds us that when parliament reacted to previous reforms of the treaties, the resolutions adopted were peppered with regrets, criticisms and things that we deplore, plus demands for further reform. this time, we are not obliged to do this because we ourselves have been prominently involved in the drafting of the reforms, both in the convention and the igc. this report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo gets the story right and i am pleased to say that all members of my group who will be speaking today will be speaking in favour of this resolution. thereafter we will be out campaigning for the entry into force inside the member states where referenda are to be held, including in france – to oppose certain factions of the left – and in britain, where we will be fighting to oppose the right. the principal argument for this great reform is clearly that it strengthens the european union. it strengthens our capacity to act abroad and inside our member states, making us prepared to stand on our own feet in world affairs, shaping europe's response to globalisation politically. the constitution redefines the european union. it strikes a balance between states – the old and the new, the large and the small – between citizens and the authorities and, as mr giscard d'estaing has said, between dream and reality. it has created a fresh, large consensus behind the project of european integration. a word to those such as the british conservatives who carp on the sidelines: if you are for europe, you should be for the constitution. europe cannot be constructed without clear, liberal and social values, strong rules and robust parliamentary democracy. europe will not work without strong authorities in brussels. without the constitution, things will not work properly and the quality of policy flowing from brussels and strasbourg will begin to decline. future expansion will be out of the question and i cannot believe that is what the british conservative party really believes in. but europe cannot work either without strong leadership. this parliament must learn to fill some of the strategic space that the reforms begin to open up for us. we have many new powers, including, importantly, the right to propose a reform – a reform in the future of the constitution itself. the commission must assert itself quickly as the new arrangements for the foreign minister and the foreign service, the team presidency and especially the so-called full-time president of the european council are put in place. the prime ministers and presidents must coordinate their campaigns. i am pleased to hear what mr schmit said on that. they must shoulder their individual and collective responsibility to win these referendum campaigns by showing the voters why these reforms are for them and why this is truly the constitution for europe.
mr president, though this house, in self-congratulatory euphoria, will embrace this constitution, thankfully the ultimate decision rests with the member states. it is their votes that really matter. what i despise most is the false pretence, particularly prevalent in the united kingdom, that this constitution is merely a tidying-up exercise made necessary by enlargement and that it will settle the constitutional shape of europe for generations. that is demonstrably false. those who peddle that deception are best exposed by the constitution's own most ardent and more honest proponents. in the constitutional affairs committee, i have observed at first hand the strategy and scheming of arch europhiles. they make no secret of the fact that this constitution is not an end in itself, but a work in progress and they do nothing to conceal their ambition to have it, in their terms, strengthened at the first opportunity – without, of course, the troublesome obstacle of further national consultation. their undisguised candour gives the lie to those who would deceive voters into thinking that this is a mere tidying-up exercise: it is not. the choice for the nation-states is this: a choice between a europe of cooperating sovereign nation-states, or a europe that is itself a superstate. despite all the denials, this constitution is a framework for superstatehood. it declares its supremacy over national constitutions; it proclaims the subservience of national law; it appoints its own president and foreign minister. it relegates national parliaments to mere consultative sounding boards; it trades meaningful democracy for the pseudo­democracy of this house; it neuters the last defence of the nation-state by increasingly supplanting the national veto with radically increased qualified majority voting; and it provides an unbridled path to further integration by permitting amendment by heads of government rather than by the people. anyone with pride in his or her own nation, who does not want to see it subsumed into a hideous conglomerate, will reject this tawdry constitution. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries.– mr president, members of the committee on fisheries are well attuned to opinion in europe's coastal and island communities. that committee, in a near unanimous decision, endorsed my opinion on this constitution. the most important paragraph in that opinion, which will be retabled tomorrow for voting as amendment 13 on behalf of my group, refers to exclusive competence. it 'considers that within the context of the other exclusive competences of the eu, which are detailed in the constitution, the inclusion of the conservation of marine biological resources is anomalous and unjustified'. the common fisheries policy has not been one of the european union's success stories. decision-making is too centralised, too inflexible and too remote from the communities that it affects. to entrench the cfp effectively in primary constitutional law is a major step in the wrong direction and one that will – i believe – be an obstacle to the kind of major reforms demanded by the fishing communities that i am familiar with. exclusive competence takes the cfp outwith the principle of subsidiarity, ensuring that regional advisory councils can never evolve into management bodies. i hope that colleagues will support amendment 13 tomorrow and support the fishing communities, as the fisheries committee of this parliament has done. these communities strongly believe that exclusive competence is not only unnecessary but is indeed anomalous and unjustified.
mr president, the laeken declaration rightly called for the eu institutions to develop in a way which brought them closer to the people. as the ratification process on the constitution gathers pace, it must be said that those ambitions clearly have not been realised. as a member of the convention, i made great efforts to try to persuade my colleagues that the emerging draft was wrong for europe in principle and wrong for europe's citizens. i argued throughout that europe did not need a constitution but a simplifying treaty. that would have been enough to modernise the institutions and the workings of the union. i even submitted a draft of a possible alternative. prime minister blair agreed with me then; now he embraces the constitution as it has been drawn up. there is nothing anti-european in opposing the constitution. however, british conservatives and other colleagues in the ppe-de group think that it centralises more powers, makes the institutions more remote and reduces the powers of nation-states. europe has missed an historic opportunity to modernise its workings to meet the demands of an enlarged and more diverse union. a simplifying treaty could have tackled the real issues: relative economic decline, fraud and waste, and greater involvement of national parliaments in the decision-making processes. at a time when the generosity of people across europe and the world towards the victims of the tsunami disaster is evident to all, it is inexplicable why this parliament is committing a considerable sum of money to a programme of events and receptions in support of the european constitution. those funds would have been better directed to assisting in the disaster relief. the constitution is of such far-reaching significance that its rejection in one or more of the member states in the forthcoming referenda would render it void. however, rather than being totally negative, we should regard that outcome – should it occur – as a fresh opportunity for us all to establish a modern union that respects and celebrates its diversity and which is accountable by the people and from the people, rather than one which demands too much conformity.
mr president, it is pretty clear that what we are involved in here is a one-sided exercise in selling this constitution to the peoples of europe. listening to some of the talk, you would think the second coming of the lord was being debated. starting this week, you will be spending large amounts of taxpayers' money telling people what they should think and how they should vote. i suggest that first you ought to put your house in order. some weeks ago i revealed to this parliament commissioner barrot's past and the affair was whitewashed. now it has emerged that during his hearing, siim kallas, who is in charge of the anti-fraud drive, gave deliberately misleading information and inaccurate dates, and used a misinterpretation as a means of shying away from a vital question. yesterday afternoon, president borrell denied me the chance to make a one-minute speech to mention this to parliament. you will not win your constitutional battle by burying the truth and by failing to have a proper debate. the whole process will fall yet further into disrepute, although, given the fact that i, along with many colleagues here, will be campaigning for a 'no' vote, perhaps i should be grateful for the manner in which you conduct yourselves. (applause)
chairman of the ad hoc delegation for the observation of the palestinian elections. – mr president, we have all returned safely from palestine. i wish to thank my colleagues – there were 28 of us, the largest ever delegation of the european parliament – the vice-chairman, mrs napoletano, and the staff who accompanied us and prepared the observation mission. our task, as members of the european parliament, is to deliver an informed political verdict on this crucial election at the brussels part-session later this month. however, we feel that the palestinian people – especially the women – should be proud. in spite of the israeli occupation and the lack of opportunity for east jerusalem residents and others to vote, this election prepares the ground for the palestinian parliamentary elections in july and could serve as a model for others in the region. i hope that the european parliament will respond to the appetite for democracy in the arab world as a whole. (applause)
rapporteur.– mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to address colleagues before, hopefully, my report is voted through plenary. the peace programme is of much more than purely financial importance to northern ireland and the border counties of the republic of ireland. it is the most visible contribution so far by the european union to building a stable society in northern ireland and, to that extent, it has enormous symbolic value as well. it is a fine example of the european union offering assistance without interfering in the local political process. on behalf of the people of northern ireland, i thank those who have worked so hard to ensure that this report was able to go through its parliamentary stages at speed. i am grateful to the chairman and the secretariat of the committee on regional development for addressing the proposal as a priority once it was received from the commission. i am also very grateful to the committee on budgets for its efficient handling of the budgetary question, which has enabled us to vote today. whilst i am also grateful to the council and the commission, i regret that the british and irish governments did not ask for a higher sum of money. the amount allocated falls somewhat short of initial expectations. however, i am pleased that the peace programme is being extended and would be grateful for strong support for this symbol of eu commitment to all the people of northern ireland. (applause)
in writing. today i voted in favour of the extension of peace funding but i did so with considerable reservation. that reservation arises from the fact that, to date, peace funding in northern ireland has been allocated in a most imbalanced way, to the gross disadvantage to the protestant/unionist community. it has also favoured terrorist prisoner groups over victim groups, who exist as victims because of the horror visited upon them by those terrorists. during this extension of peace funding i am looking for an overt righting of these wrongs. this funding must be allocated in an even-handed manner.
mr president, there are some things to admire in this constitution but there are also many things to dislike. on balance my party has decided that it cannot recommend it to the people of scotland, and accordingly will not be voting for the report. we have a number of objections to the constitution itself, but in the seconds remaining i will simply mention the inadequate subsidiarity provisions. scotland is not independent yet, but the scottish parliament is already the only body responsible for justice, the environment, education, health and many other areas of scottish life. the provisions in this treaty for incorporating it into the eu law-making process are inadequate. we have seen in the field of fisheries the disastrous consequences of eu legislation being inadequately sensitive to reality on the ground within the member states or territories of the union, and this constitution will not sufficiently improve eu law-making for scotland. more to the point, it does not take account of the dignity of my country. we cannot recommend it to the people of scotland and will not be voting for it.
mr president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteurs. however, i would like to ask for more noise and excitement over the small clause, under 'participatory democracy', that deals with the citizens' right of initiative. this, above all, makes a reality of bringing europe closer to its citizens. it builds on the right to petition, but much more than that it is a positive right that allows our citizens to begin to set the agenda. in my own country, in comparison, citizens have no right of initiative, petitions languish on shelves, legislative initiatives rely on parliamentarians winning a ballot – it is a sort of game of chance – and even then the initiative will probably be talked out by colleagues, with the citizens having no real place. i am very proud that this nascent eu right offers much more: a real opportunity for our citizens to participate in and to move europe. let us therefore have a loud fanfare for this step towards direct democracy, european-style.
mr president, we face many myths and red herrings as we try to promote the debate on the eu constitution. mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo have done an excellent job in their clear and straightforward explanation and advocacy of its merits. mr corbett, i shall probably borrow your wording for a pamphlet in my constituency, but this is in a common good cause. one of the red herrings put around is whether to call the document a 'constitutional treaty' or a 'constitution', but, as the authors say, this is a sterile debate. it is a treaty in form, but a constitution in substance. why are so many people, at least in my own country, britain, so frightened of the word constitution? every club, every society has one. in fact the uk itself has one, even though it has never been written down all in one place – unfortunately! the greatest benefits of the new constitution are that, on the one hand, it constrains the eu, but on the other, it liberates it. the powers of the european union will be constrained by strengthened rules on limits to competence, on parliamentary scrutiny, on democratic accountability and the definition of citizens' rights vis-à-vis the administration. but the union will also be freed up to act more effectively on the domestic and external challenges we face. domestically, this is most striking in the case of justice and home affairs. we will be able to act more decisively to manage our borders and immigration and to tackle serious crime, as our citizens want us to do. we will also be able to act more effectively abroad. what an impact it would have made on our public opinion, as well as on the disaster effort, if it had been, for example, a french aircraft carrier with german helicopters and british marines assisting in aceh in indonesia, and not just american ones. some claim to see in the charter of fundamental rights – which will become legally binding – a threat. i see it as an opportunity. the anti-europeans have to understand that it will sometimes act in the sense of constraining the eu institutions and giving redress against abuse of powers by them. there is therefore no reason for people to fear and every reason to welcome the constitution – and indeed this report.
mr president, while the european parliament has no formal role in the ratification procedure, i am pleased that, as the elected representatives of 25 member states of the european union, we are having this debate today, at a point in time when the ratification procedure has just got under way at parliamentary level and is just about to get under way at referendum level. on the day when heads of state and government signed the constitution in rome, i happened to be in bratislava, slovakia, where i was privileged to participate in the opening of the house of europe. that was the first opening of a house of europe in one of the new member states. it was followed by the opening in december of a house of europe in prague. procedures for establishing houses of europe in all member states are under way. the principal function of these houses of europe is to bring the european union closer to its citizens. they offer citizens a point of information that is centrally and visibly located in their own member state. the concept offers education on the european union and, by providing accommodation for the political groups, it ensures that the views of this parliament can be conveyed to the citizens. it is my belief that if the european union is to work, we have to strengthen and deepen the relationships between this parliament and the national parliaments. there is no other way in which we can achieve that cooperation in the longer term. it should not be an 'us and them' situation; it should be about everyone working together for the betterment of all people in the 25 member states – or perhaps the 27 member states, should that come about. that is the challenge for the future; that is the challenge that we, as democrats, have to take on board. it takes two sides to make a debate. because people do not necessarily agree with every word that others say, this does not mean that they have no right to say it. i believe in the rights of everyone, i believe in democracy. i believe that those who disagree with me have a right to their views. the majority will ultimately win, but those who disagree can make this a better debate, and they should be encouraged to do so and should not be disenfranchised from their position.
mr president, the last thing i want to do is to spoil a party. over the next 48 hours this parliament will spend hundreds of thousands of euro on celebrating the constitution. we shall have balloons, a laser display, an orchestra; but i cannot help feeling that all this is a touch premature. in at least ten countries there must be a referendum before ratification. we cannot call the result of those polls with certainty. not a single ballot has yet been cast. if it were only the party that was premature, it would be rather curmudgeonly of me to object, but we are anticipating the constitution in other more important ways. we are, for example, pushing ahead with the creation of an eu diplomatic service, a proposal which, pending formal ratification, has no legal basis. in the field of justice and home affairs we have gone even further, pre-empting many of the constitution's clauses, in particular those to do with the creation of a pan-european legal system and a european public prosecutor. before the constitution had even been signed, let alone ratified, the european court of justice had indicated that it would treat the charter of fundamental rights as justiciable. asked formally by this house what parts of the constitution they intended to implement without waiting for official ratification, only five of the current commissioners answered that it would be wrong to anticipate the results of the national referendums. the other 20 all replied in one way or another that they intended to forge ahead at once without waiting for the outcome of the national ballots. this is meant to be a democratic chamber, but its attitude sometimes recalls bertolt brecht's famous couplet 'let us dismiss the people and elect another in their place'. i hope my country will vote 'no' to the constitution and i am campaigning to that end, but if i lose, i shall accept the result with good grace. i would urge those of you who support the constitution to display a similar respect for the democratic process and not to try to implement large parts of this constitution even if one or more member states has voted against it. no means no.
rapporteur.– mr president, in responding to this debate i wish to begin by thanking all those who paid tribute to the work of the committee on constitutional affairs and the report it produced. it is clear that this constitution has very broad support across the political spectrum and across member states. i am hopeful that in the vote tomorrow there will be at least a two-thirds majority in favour of it, with more than 400 votes in favour in this parliament, and that will send a powerful signal. let me also respond to the criticisms that have been made of the constitution. they seem to be twofold. firstly, there are those who say they oppose the constitution because it does not go far enough. they say it will certainly make the eu more democratic, social and so on, but not enough so. my answer to them is that the choice at the moment is between the new constitution and the old one – our current treaties. if the new constitution contains improvements, then it is better to take the new constitution rather than carry on living with the old one. that is an argument i would also put to those who complain that there is no reference to christianity in the new constitution. there is no such reference in the current treaties, although they were drafted by saint schuman. however, the new constitution contains a reference to our religious heritage and other heritages, and its values are christian values and also the values of many others. they are values that christians, non-christians, people of other religions and of no religion share. many opponents of this constitution conjure up fears of a superstate; many are opposed to the very existence of the european union. that is illustrated by those who oppose the supremacy of union law over the law of member states, which is after all the current situation. what is the point of agreeing common laws across europe if one does not want those laws to be applied across europe? that is the whole point of agreeing common european legislation in the areas we want it, such as the environment and the common market. there is no point in having that legislation if you are against it in the first place. to those people i would say: be honest and campaign for what you really believe in, which is your country leaving the european union, and do not hide behind attacking the constitution. what nonsense to say that this new constitution will create a centralised superstate! centralised, the european union? when it is based on a constitution that confers powers on the european union with the agreement of every single member state on the ratification of treaties? that is the only power the union has. even in exercising its powers, the council – i.e. the member states – has a central role in taking decisions, while the central administration – the european commission – has fewer employees than the city of leeds, in my constituency. some superstate! let me conclude by saying that this debate is partly one of myth against reality. i am sure that by broadcasting the facts and enabling a true analysis of the treaty we will contribute to an honest debate which will persuade people that this constitution is worth having.
mr president, commissioner, many members have not had sight of the green paper yet, but at this early stage we should set down for you some basic principles of what is a very welcome discussion. first, as my colleague mrs roure said, integration policy must be a vital component of any proposed legislation. we know that we want to share best practice, but we still have a very vague position on integration policy. secondly, managed migration means all things to all members in this house. for some it may mean control, for some it may mean the right to family unity. this is a big gap and we must define in this discussion what managed migration actually means. these are human beings coming from third countries to work in the european union, they are not commodities. we will have a set of principles and laws which will have to accommodate that. finally, i very much welcome that civil society will have a much greater say, but we must then listen to civil society, to the trade unions and to business. they have some good ideas, and we must not just pay lip service to those ideas but create a managed migration policy which will benefit both the european union and those people and their families who are coming to benefit our economies.
mr president, i have a sense of déjà vu here, having drafted the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on a number of these issues. i have a number of questions. what attention is going to be paid to the work that parliament has already done on these issues? we have put forward a considerable number of proposals, which we discussed with civil society, trade unions and business. the trade unions will demand parity of treatment for third country nationals coming to work in the european union, so that they are not paid poorly to undercut workers here. business people will tell you that they want entry made easier so that they are not acting as a parallel immigration system. one of the things that has changed since parliament last looked at this is that we now have ten new member states. if we are looking at a hierarchy of movement for employment, presumably the commission is looking at removing the transition periods for those new member states as part of that change in the hierarchical system of entry for employment.
commission. honourable members, i am responding to this question on behalf of my colleague, mr michel, who is unable to be here this afternoon, as he must attend the donors' conference on the tsunami disaster. on this issue, the approach of the commission is twofold. firstly, on the one hand, we support the initiatives and programmes of the ilo. secondly, we reinforce the capacity of the countries in the region to implement the relevant cotonou provisions and different economic community of west african states protocols and initiatives in the area of child protection. the international labour organisation, through its international programme on the elimination of child labour, launched in 2000 a new initiative called 'combating trafficking in children for labour exploitation in west and central africa'. in 2003 a 'west africa cocoa/commercial agricultural programme to combat hazardous and exploitative child labour' was added, focusing in particular on cocoa farming. the commission has a strategic partnership with the ilo, in which the fight against child labour is a priority. in that context, a programme of eur 15 million under the acp funds is currently under consideration. the objectives would be, inter alia, firstly, to establish a sustainable mechanism to prevent children from carrying out all sorts of labour in the agricultural and other sectors. secondly, to strengthen the capacity of national and community-level agencies and organisations in planning, initiating, implementing and evaluating action to prevent and progressively eliminate child labour. thirdly, to remove all children involved in work in the cocoa sector, to prevent children at risk from entering such work, and to improve the income-earning capacity of adult family members, particularly women, through social protection schemes. ecowas is active as a regional organisation in the fight against child labour. in addition to the cotonou provisions on trade and labour standards, the ecowas heads of state have adopted a declaration and a plan of action to fight child exploitation, and ecowas has recently set up a child unit in its secretariat. the 9th edf regional indicative programme will provide capacity-building to this new unit within ecowas, with a view to promoting the effectiveness of its work.
i thank the commissioner for giving me information on the ilo and various other organisations and activity which is already in the public domain. i wonder whether the commission is actually considering a more positive agenda with regard to companies who are making profits out of this at the moment, by perhaps insisting that unless european companies – and do not forget that europeans and north americans consume most of these cocoa products – can give a guarantee that they are not making their products and profits on the back of child labour, then they cannot import them into europe. has the commission considered that and will the commission consider it?
commission. the commission believes that the framework of the cotonou agreement between the eu and the 77 acp countries gives real opportunities to address the human and social aspects of this practice, as well as the corruption element that may be linked to it, through political dialogue and support for good governance in acp countries. moreover, it considers that poverty and the lack of local opportunities are amongst the main reasons for exploitative child labour and child trafficking. the poverty- reduction approach through eu development cooperation is a sound basis for tackling the problem as it gives priority to equitable growth and to better access to education. finally, the cotonou agreement represents an important step forward in promoting cls in bilateral agreements. article 50 includes a specific provision on trade and labour standards, which reaffirms the commitments of the parties to international cls as defined by the relevant ilo conventions.
is the commission aware of the fact that the world chocolate manufacturers association concluded an agreement back in 2001 specifically to deal with this issue? would the commission therefore undertake to look at the report that is due in the middle of this year from the international chocolate manufacturers, commend them on the work that they have been doing and encourage them to continue to develop their certification programme? i am at a loss as to why chocolate has been singled out in this respect because there are many other food products being sourced from third world countries where the same issues pertain – labelling issues and quality standards are very important across the whole of the sector.
commission. as i pointed out in my reply, the country of origin principle applies only to the temporary cross-border provision of services. the rest of the directive deals with any other areas. if services are provided via an establishment in another member state, the service provider will have to comply with all the relevant rules in that member state. i should like to point out to the honourable member that i would accept that the services directive is very ambitious: it aims to provide an overarching framework. i am aware of the concerns of many members of this parliament and people outside this parliament. i am very conscious that it has raised the political temperature in a number of member states. i have entered into an open and constructive dialogue with members, and i will continue to do that. i look forward to future communications from your rapporteur to assess parliamentarians' views within the committee responsible.
would the commissioner agree that it is vitally important for members of this house to understand the huge variety of discriminatory and anti-competitive practices that member states currently apply against service providers? it would be very helpful if you could explain these in more detail to members of this parliament who persist in describing this directive in the entirely unjustified terms you have so convincingly dismissed in your answer of 'social dumping' and a 'race to the bottom'. there is no evidence whatsoever that either of those things will happen, and it would be helpful if the job creation facet inherent in this directive were properly communicated.
commission. i certainly agree with the honourable member that the opportunities for job creation from an opening-up of the services market throughout europe are immense. various studies have been initiated, and there are great opportunities for job creation. given that services account for well over 60% of the union's gdp, it is clear that any improvement in the services area is going to lead to an increase in wealth and jobs for people in the union. i agree with the honourable member that many anti-competitive practices exist in lots of member states that prevent the real opening-up of the services market. the services directive is attempting to open up the services area to the benefit of everybody in europe. but having said that, and in reply to the earlier question from mr de rossa, i am also conscious of the specific concerns expressed by members. hopefully, during the parliamentary process and other processes we will be able to tease these concerns out further.
if you take the qualifications that the commissioner expressed in his answer to the first question at face value, it is clear that this directive would not apply to the uk health service, which is based on care that is free at the point of use. if we can take his reassurances at face value, why does he not simply exclude health from the scope of this directive?
commission. we have produced such a document and i shall gladly send a copy of it to the honourable member.
madam president, i know how hard it is to chair these sessions, but i wonder what relevance that supplementary had to mr mitchell's original question? mrs cederschiöld seemed to have jumped back to the previous question. i know my colleague mr de rossa had a genuine supplementary on the previous question and was refused the floor!
commission. in response to your call for the suspension of the eu-israel association agreement, it is the commission's judgement that measures such as sanctions would make the israeli authorities less, rather than more, responsive to the efforts of the international community to promote a lasting solution. this is at a time when the eu is seeking to have a very constructive role in ensuring that the withdrawal from gaza takes place in a positive climate, in cooperation with a new, and now democratically-elected, palestinian leadership. i fully recognise the frustrations of those seeking to promote the peace process when confronted by israel's expansion of its settlement activities. the european commission has regularly expressed its concerns not only at the continuing terrorism and violence but also at the route of the separation barrier and the expansion of settlements. our wish is to address these issues through dialogue. the commission is seeking to develop relations with israel and the palestinians through the european neighbourhood policy, through support for palestinian reforms and the development of political dialogue with israel. the action plan adopted for israel includes measures to strengthen dialogue and cooperation on the importance of adherence to international law and the need to preserve the perspective of a viable, comprehensive settlement, which involves minimising the impact of security and counter-terrorism measures on the civilian population. it is the commission's view – and i believe this is shared by the member states – that measures to suspend the eu-israel association agreement would therefore be counterproductive.
i fully accept what the commissioner says about the changing circumstances. since i tabled this question, mr abbas has been elected as leader of the palestinians and we have seen mr peres join the israeli government. that gives us some hope for dialogue between the two sides. however, i would ask her, in her new role, to keep this protocol under constant review and to keep the pressure on israel to observe the contents of the protocol. i know that in the past the commission has taken action on products that have come from east jerusalem, the golan heights, the west bank and the gaza strip. i ask her to continue to monitor the situation to ensure that products from those areas are not labelled as 'products of israel'.
vice-president of the commission. the honourable member is certainly correct. the italian newspapers have reported some facts, but the commission can and must remain within its legal powers, which do not include the power to subject the conduct of judicial authorities to investigation or action. there are instruments, even within the national states, which make it possible to prosecute a judge who has engaged in illegal activity, but this obviously cannot be done at the request of the commission.
commissioner, regardless of the facts of this case, when you next meet the justice ministers, will you make it clear to them that, under the various international conventions you mention and in the spirit of membership of the european union, it is unacceptable for the authorities of one member state – be they political or judicial – to carry out phone tapping in another member state, without the express approval of that member state?
vice-president of the commission. it is certainly true that there are different approaches to integration represented in the member states. concept and practice varies due to a number of factors: different immigration histories and variations in the roles of government and civil society with respect to integration policies are just two examples. the commission consistently stressed that integration policy was by definition an area where subsidiarity is at stake. on the other hand, all member states adhere to human rights standards and shared values such as equality anti-discrimination, solidarity, tolerance, etc.. through the ongoing exchange of information and experience, particularly through the work of national contact points for integration, we are now seeing a certain degree of convergence with respect to policy approaches, goals and targets. this was confirmed in december with the adoption by the council of common basic principles on integration. the publication by the commission in november 2004 of a handbook on integration for policy makers and practitioners, which brings together examples of good practice from throughout the union on introduction programmes, civic participation and integration indicators, illustrates that there are many common problems and shows how much we can learn from each other. best practice must be taken for what it is: ideas, lessons to be learned and suggestions which can inspire and inform policy makers in the definition of the policies required.
i thank the commissioner for that clear answer. i know from the previous debate that you take the issue of integration seriously. the commission has a real impact on integration policy and a direct role, for example, in the enforcement of existing directives, which are crucial to integration – i refer explicitly to the employment directive and the race equality directive. the commission has played a strong role in trying to enforce these directives. they remain unimplemented in at least two member states that i am aware of. will you use your powers in office to enforce such directives, which play such an important part in the integration process? you have that power.
thank you, commissioner, for staying to answer the question. i am very grateful that you recognise the urgency of this problem because with open borders across the union, organised crime is free to operate and to prosper, while our police forces are national and cannot cross the frontiers. so we have a real problem. i am glad that you are treating this with considerable urgency. could you tell us who will be responsible for the coordinating machinery? will this be done by europol or will it be done by the commission – or maybe a new agency?
on behalf of the group.– mr president, this is the eleventh luxembourg presidency. mr president-in-office, your presidency has high standards of its own to live up to and the high expectations of others to meet. simultaneously president-in-office of the european council and of the economic and finance council, you are in a unique position from which to reach agreement on one of your biggest and most delicate objectives – the financial perspectives for 2007­2013. liberals and democrats are pleased to note that in your presidency programme you say that 'all progress towards european construction requires adequate financial resources'. we hope you will not be limited by dogmatic demands to cap the union's budget at 1% for the next decade. we are not profligate with european citizens' taxes and we insist that every euro be well spent and properly accounted for. nonetheless, we, too, recognise that the european union has justifiable ambitions, whether to run a coherent security strategy, generous development policy or an effective policy of regional aid and social cohesion. these all have a cost, and we should not limit our political ambitions by penny-pinching over what is, after all, a relatively modest budget. i wish you every success in securing agreement in june, for i fear the approach of your successors in this, as in other matters, is unlikely to command a consensus. my group will call upon you to specify new arrangements for the stability and growth pact, which underpins the single currency. as 'mr euro', it is your right and duty to speak out for the euro and the euro zone. if france and germany are allowed to escape with a mild rebuke for exceeding the deficit limits for several consecutive years, if greece is absolved from misrepresenting its true fiscal state to gain fast-track entry to the euro, and if italy continues to be reckless with its budget while harbouring a public debt of over 100%, who will have confidence in those rules? the stability pact needs adjusting but it also needs enforcing, with proper monitoring arrangements like those used by the imf. we will look to you and your council colleagues to be vigilant and true to your commitments. your term in office will coincide with the mid-term review of the much vaunted and little respected lisbon agenda. it is in serious danger of stalling. your commitment to a relaunch at this halfway mark will bear fruit if you succeed in completing the single market, in finding more funding for research and in promoting a favourable climate for entrepreneurship. but do not try to be all things to all people. structural labour market reform is essential to lisbon. neither should you underestimate the challenge of enforcing existing directives. your proposal to make national governments accountable to their peers, as well as to national parliaments and public opinion, is a good one and the commission must be entrusted to monitor the measures needed and not be afraid to name and shame the laggards. my group also welcomes your commitment to move to the community method in matters of justice and home affairs so important to our citizens. we also share your ambitions for enlargement. new arrivals are on the horizon. bulgaria and romania will shortly be joining us. croatia is a candidate country with which you must open negotiations. let us be clear, as regards croatia, that we expect general gotovina to hand himself over or be turned over to the hague to answer the case against him. croatia cannot duck that issue. as mr poettering said, we cannot ignore the momentous events in ukraine in the last two months. as a collective body of institutions, we must encourage the opening-up of that country and review bilateral relations in the light of new circumstances. that is a task for your presidency. in conclusion, as the constitution enters its ratification phase, you may have three referenda on your watch, and you must do all in your power to make sure they succeed. if political forces in spain are allowed to raise the ghost of regional autonomy, if, in france, the debate is muddied by turkish membership, if, in britain, eu financing becomes an issue in the constitutional treaty debate, the whole thing will come crashing down around europe's ears. leave those issues where they belong and make sure europe gets the constitution it needs. (applause)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, mr juncker's speech was made with all the passion that a civil servant is likely to raise. mr juncker, you say that the stability and growth pact will be your top priority, but your past statements serve to illustrate only the inconsistencies. whilst i acknowledge that you played a key role in negotiating the pact's original rules, you recently said that the credibility of the pact had been buried and that the pact was dead. is that still your opinion? you also said that you have a window of opportunity to cut a quick deal on the eu budget, including the british rebate of some eur 4 billion a year. is that so, mr juncker? the rebate took five years to negotiate. if your comments are true and you can cut a deal by june, then mr blair must have agreed in principle to surrender the rebate. is that the case? with whom in the british government precisely are you negotiating? will the british electorate know about this at the time of the british general election, probably in may? finally, the uk independence party, and in particular my colleague mr farage, has drawn attention to the criminal activities of more than one commissioner. more details will follow shortly and regularly. are you to be tainted by association with them, or will you be expressing your concerns and the pressing need for change?
mr president, i would like to wish prime minister juncker a positive and productive presidency and am very pleased to see a small, successful, independent country leading the european union. luxembourg is one of the six member states that is smaller than my own country, wales, and an example of what an independent wales could achieve. the priorities paper tries to maintain the essential balance between economic, social and environmental policies. i would like to mention the continuing campaign against discrimination, in the hope that real progress will be made on the european gender institute and on the recast equality directive. there is no better example of the failure of policies on equality than the pay gap between men and women. thirty years after legislation was passed on this issue, a report published this week by the gmb trade union in the uk shows that, in anglesey in my constituency, full-time pay for women is as low as 59% of that for men. this is a scandal which must be addressed and i hope equality issues will be given priority.
mr president, the new presidency can be assured that hundreds and thousands of british citizens will fight the proposed european constitution tooth and nail, and millions of us will vote against it when the time comes! we have no quarrel with the people of europe: our quarrel is only with the system of unitary government called the european union. the eu is the antithesis of the accountable parliamentary democracy that the british invented over 700 years ago. this attempted reversal of the relationship between the state and the individual has been foisted on us over the last 30 years by deceit, denial and misrepresentation. but now we understand fully what the eu is really all about. we may not leave during your presidency, but be in no doubt – leave we shall!
mr president, the lisbon strategy is so full of grand ideas that we often hear very little – and indeed we have heard very little today – about the simple things, such as improving the quality of our own legislation. the fact is that the european union could add between two and six per cent to its productivity if its regulatory framework was matched by the best in the world. we should therefore be making it a priority of the luxembourg presidency to encourage the commission to put real resources into consultations at an early stage in its proposals and to test whether its competitiveness is appropriate. we also need to spend time looking at existing legislation and seeing whether it has achieved the effect that we asked for. often we pass legislation, but do not look at what it has actually achieved. is existing legislation being properly enforced and implemented? it seems to me that, in the european union of 25, implementation enforcement should get far higher priority than it has up until now. i am glad that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has taken up my suggestion that we should have an own-initiative report looking precisely at these issues. we have also heard considerable talk today about social europe, but we have to ensure that social europe applies to everybody and not simply to those who are in work. far too many of our citizens are economically inactive, and therefore we should be putting investment into active labour market policies that enable people to get back to work and then policies that support people in order for them to be able to continue in work. if we fail to do that, then we will fail in our lisbon strategy. finally, i urge the luxembourg presidency to take fresh initiatives in relation to northern cyprus so that we can ensure we have effective economic regeneration in that part of the country.
mr president, i should like to begin by wishing mr juncker and his country a successful presidency. mr president-in-office, you assume the leadership of the union at a crucial period. the ratification process for the constitution is underway, the lisbon process is not yet making enough progress and the future of transatlantic relations is a source of concern. in march, the european council will conduct the mid-term review of the lisbon process. it will do it against the backdrop of the kok report, which was blunt in its assessment of the lack of progress. i urge the presidency not to be distracted by the siren calls of those who urge that the preservation of the 'european model' is the most important political priority. it is clearly not. it is precisely because so many governments have failed to grasp the nettle of radical reform that the lisbon process is in such dire straits. the united states continues to out-perform us and the competitive challenges from asia, particularly china and india, are increasing, with no apparent urgent response from national capitals in our union. the presidency must be unequivocal in its support for economic reform, for greater labour market flexibility, for more competitive taxation policies, and for reducing barriers to employment growth, particularly the excessive regulation that pervades all our economies. with high unemployment a factor across europe, people are waiting for practical ways of getting them back to work. reform will be difficult and fraught with risk, but as the united kingdom, under margaret thatcher in the 1980s and spain under mr aznar in the 1990s proved, a resolute approach to economic reform delivers results. low taxation, flexible labour markets, less red tape and a determination to tip the balance firmly in favour of the wealth-creators offers the only way out of a relative economic decline. these things are naturally anathema to socialists but are good for all our citizens. we look to the spring council in march to reverse the failures of recent times and put europe firmly on a free market and enterprise-driven path.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, i have just returned from sri lanka, where i witnessed many of the dreadful sights that we have all seen on television. as a sri lankan-born member of this parliament, i wish to express my gratitude to all those who have responded so generously to appeals, and especially for the help given by the peoples of europe; my own country, britain, in particular; and my constituents in the south-east of england. the eu and its member states have together pledged almost eur 1.5 billion so far. the amount continues to rise. the commission and parliament have sanctioned eur 23 million and promised funds of eur 350 million, although eur 150 million of that is not new money, but will be taken from existing long-term developments. this must be reviewed. i also welcome the proposal for a lending facility of eur 1 billion from the european investment bank. we must deliver the aid which we have promised. in the past the international community has not done so. a rapid reaction civilian corps for aid delivery, as proposed by commissioner ferrero-waldner, is most welcome. our aid must be visible. i was embarrassed in sri lanka because eu aid was immediately delivered, but was done so invisibly, despite commissioner michel being extremely visible and hands-on. the united nations and ngos only act as coordinators and do not pretend to be the donors. our taxpayers demand visibility. ownership matters. we must also ensure that aid is not stolen – yes, stolen! where the appropriate systems do not exist in the recipient countries, aid will be stolen unless we ensure that delivery mechanisms are totally transparent and accountable. there is currently an urgent need for small, suitable boats to be donated. i am glad that president barroso mentioned that. early warning procedures are also needed before the next disaster happens. an authenticated telephone call to cnn and the other broadcast networks could have saved thousands of lives in sri lanka, somalia and thailand. after all, the americans evacuated diego garcia. however, that telephone call did not come. this does not only apply to asia. how would people in europe be warned if, let us say, volcanic activity in the canary islands caused a tsunami? will the commission prepare an urgent report? in sri lanka i hope that reconstruction will also mean reconciliation and that aid will be consistent with the december 2002 oslo talks and the tokyo donor conference expectations. we should expect no less for indonesia, with its aceh separatists. we must remember that it is trade and investment, not aid, which will sustain the people in the long term. the devastation is limited to the coastal areas and the countries of south asia are still open for business. let us all work together, not only to repair the destruction, but also to give the victims a hand up and not merely a hand-out. (applause)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, this is a global tragedy requiring a global response. it provides an opportunity to reassert the role and the benefit of multilateral action through the united nations, but also a challenge to the united nations to prove itself up to the task. thus far, its response has been promising. the response of the european union, too, has put us on to a good start, and i salute the prompt action of commissioner michel and the support that his colleagues gave. european union aid, both public and private, has been impressive in its generosity. echo funds were released rapidly in the aftermath of the disaster. total pledges now amount to eur 540 million, plus a eur 1 billion lending facility. though, to be honest, one-third of that grant aid is reprogrammed from existing development aid for the region. let us make sure that these pledges are honoured – only two per cent of the usd 1 billion pledged to the reconstruction of the iranian city of bam after the earthquake there has been spent. let us not be complacent, for the present echo can act as a financier. in the longer term we must have the potential to send troops, ships, floating hospitals and helicopters to assist in disaster relief. more than 150,000 people have lost their lives, whole communities have been wiped out. five million more people are injured or have lost their homes, livelihoods or families. many are children at risk of falling prey to child traffickers and others. goodwill abroad notwithstanding, children from those devastated communities should not be removed from the societies and traditions that they know. unicef and others must act swiftly to provide the shelter, protection and registration that those children need if they are to rebuild their lives and perhaps, eventually, be traced by relatives. this tragedy has called forth a major response in donations from individuals a world away, to families of victims they have never met, yet wish to help, reminding us how small our global community is. let us build on this opportunity to set aside our differences. the stricken countries will pay more this year in trade tariffs than we will grant them in aid. that should give us cause for reflection on our trading policies. we need close monitoring of the aid to make sure it is not used to fuel regional conflicts and is not diverted by corrupt local officials. let us have a scoreboard for eu reconstruction efforts, just as the united nations must have a tracking system for aid channelled through its agencies. and let the commission extend its lead in coordinating the union's response. if each member state contributed an expert in humanitarian aid to echo, a central resource would exist with expertise in the response capacity of different national facilities. finally, one clear lesson from this is our frailty in the face of the forces of nature. we cannot tame them, but we can collectively mitigate their devastation. we have the technology to detect earthquakes in the world's danger spots. providing it to regions at risk can be achieved at modest expense and perhaps save hundreds of thousands of lives. (applause)
in writing. i hope this proposal will be successful in its aims of modernising and improving the existing eu rules in the field of motor insurance. there are clear advantages for drivers in having a coherent framework for the recognition of their insurance policies and claims across frontiers. this report should also add clarity to what legal assistance drivers are entitled to following an accident. i hope the dispute over 'vehicle and trailer' issues does not stop this being adopted without need for conciliation.
in writing. i voted against this report in the final vote. i did so principally because i believe that the inclusion of marine biological resource conservation as one of only five exclusive competences of the eu is not only unnecessary, but in fact anomalous and unjustified. the fact that this parliament's fisheries committee almost unanimously supported that view in its opinion reflects a strongly held point of view in scotland's fisheries dependent communities. this is yet another example of failure on the part of a westminster government to act in the best interests of fishing communities, and will undoubtedly motivate many voters in scotland to vote for rejection of the constitutional treaty in a referendum.
in writing. i welcome this report by my good friends richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo and their call for the constitution to be adopted and ratified by all member states. the constitution will improve the transparency, effectiveness and efficiency of the union. in my own field of trade it will improve significantly the role of the european parliament and therefore bring greater clarity and democratic scrutiny to a vital area where the eu has exclusive competence. this should enable ngos, trade unions, commercial organisations and others to follow in more detail and to influence the negotiations leading to international agreements.
mr president, i have a serious complaint: about 15 minutes ago a peaceful protest was about to take place against the constitution – a banner was to be unfurled. two researchers belonging to the independence and democracy group were physically assaulted – one was kicked and punched. the security staff who i believe were involved include mr zylka and mr dekhudt. i ask you to conduct a serious and immediate investigation into what happened. we have had a one-sided debate here about the constitution. an enormous amount of money has been spent; banners are being unfurled for the 'yes' side, but the 'no' side is not allowed a say; and when a peaceful process takes place, people are physically assaulted. this is totally contrary to the purportedly democratic principles of this institution. i ask you to undertake an immediate investigation. you will receive a complaint in writing.
mr president, if the sitting is supposed to resume at 3 p.m. then would it not be a good idea to start at 3 p.m. and not have lunch until all hours of the afternoon? however, there are more serious points which we should perhaps draw to your attention. you will be aware that your employees assaulted two of our employees – that is, employees of the united kingdom independence party – this morning, causing bodily injury. i would like to ask whether this happened as a result of your instructions and whether or not you are prepared to take responsibility for this? i appreciate that you are not the president of parliament, who has always proved partial. at westminster, the speaker's job is to protect the rights of backbenchers. all that the president of this parliament – who is totally inexperienced – seems to do is to want to preserve the status quo. this morning he has really blotted his copy book because, last month, he permitted all the signs saying 'yes to turkey' to remain up in this chamber for a considerable period of time. he set a precedent then, so why were we not permitted this very day to hold up signs saying 'say no'? …
mr president, i should like to know who is responsible for security staff outside the chamber. i cannot find anything about this in the rules. who authorised the security staff to interfere with free and peaceful expressions of political opinion outside this house, and on what authority was this done, having regard to the rules of procedure or any other relevant authority? secondly, why was violence used against women, and thirdly, what steps will the president take to bring to account those responsible? this follows on from my previous complaint to the president, mr borrell fontelles, asking for this matter to be investigated.
mr president, please would you look at rule 166 and tell me whether you have applied this rule in response to the points of order, following your decision to tell your staff to assault ours, causing them bodily injury. the rule stipulates that 'a member may be allowed to speak to draw the attention of the president to any failure to respect parliament's rules of procedure'. we have done that. 'a request to raise a point of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak'. we have done that – at least, for once, you got something right! paragraph 4 states that 'the president shall take an immediate decision on points of order'. we ask you – although i know you are not that important in the pecking order – to take a decision on these very important points of order; probably the most important points of order you will ever get in your life!
mr president, rule 166 states very clearly that you are required to give us a response to complaints such as those already made by my colleagues, mr batten and mr knapman, concerning violence used against our members of staff by your members of staff. what steps are you taking or proposing to take to hold to account those who have used violence apparently in your name? we want to know what steps you are going to take or have already taken – it says so in rule 166 – and we need that answer now, not tomorrow.
mr president, may i start by apologising for the behaviour of some of my compatriots. i am very embarrassed that they are behaving in this way and interrupting when we are having a very serious debate about such tragic matters. if we may continue – 26 december 2004 was not the same last year, nor will it ever be again. disbelief turned into incomprehension, to grief, to sympathy; a plethora of emotions as we watched the tsunami tragedy unfold. the waves and quakes were a pervasive example of how our fates are shared with one another in a global theatre of environmental and natural risk. as president of the south asia delegation, i would like to give my sincere condolences to all those affected by this tragedy. i have been very moved by the heartfelt global response to this unprecedented disaster. in the face of the tsunami, european citizens have been amongst the most generous. last week, i travelled to chennai in south india to see at first hand the relief work by the european commission and met with officials from undp, unicef and ngos. the eu's immediate response within 24 hours was highly commendable, as was the selfless indian decision to ask that this aid should go to the worst affected areas, such as sri lanka and indonesia. therefore, i hope that the rumours of current funding to india being diverted to other areas are not true. having seen the needs in india for myself, i hope they will not be ignored in the short term. i would demand that the commission does not redeploy or reprogramme funds from any existing aid projects within this region. it would be criminal to take from the world's poorest to fund this tragedy. i welcome the commission's promise of an extra eur 350 million, but i was not convinced by president barroso's explanation this morning, because for years humanitarian aid budgets for asia have been in decline, from 70% in 1990 to 38% in 2000. therefore, it is not acceptable that we divert money away from poverty eradication programmes; we should be adding more money. we need to approach this tragedy differently from any other and explore the use of new specialist teams in those countries. it is not just money that is needed: we also need to give technical expertise. i would ask the commission to look at enduring changes.
mr president, the earth moved, tragedy struck and our world changed. the awesome pictures of that mighty sea consuming the land and crushing people, homes and landmarks were terrifying and terrible. the world was shocked by the fate of human beings, the suffering of survivors and the plight of orphans. in europe we are mourning thousands of our own citizens, but with admiration for and gratitude to the local people who, despite their own loss and pain, found the courage and compassion to care for bewildered and frightened foreign tourists. the earth moved and the public were moved. the first to act were not governments, but people. people across the world opened their hearts and opened their purses, shaming governments into matching the monies their peoples had given. now we demand real, lasting and effective action. humanitarian and reconstruction aid must be given and used with transparency and accountability, and debt systems reformed. our actions must help to bring peace, support good governance and human rights, involve local people and overcome poverty. promises must be kept and we must develop the early warning systems which, as we now know, are already available in the form of the underground testing systems based in vienna. above all, europe must now respond to the new public mood which demands that the divisions of our world must be healed through a determined combating of poverty and disease and the removal of barriers that have stopped poorer countries trading in our markets. the people of our world have never felt closer. surely our governments – north and south – and our european union, can build on that.
mr president, as others have said, those who have suffered so much in this disaster want more than just promises of support or the transfer of money from one disaster to another – from africa to aceh for example. after all, when usd 1.6 billion was raised for relief in iraq it was largely at the expense of africa. we need new, additional money, and the needs of victims of other crises, such as those in sudan, congo, haiti, liberia and northern uganda, should not be forgotten. our efforts should moreover not be at the expense of the eight million people who die every year from preventable diseases such as malaria. i would urge the commission to look again very closely at the acp's request to have their own disaster warning facility and would also urge that particular attention be paid to the needs of somalia and the seychelles, where thousands of people have been displaced and their livelihoods destroyed. one of the paragraphs in our resolution opposes the use of the edf b envelope to support those countries in east africa. indeed, it is very unclear how funds can be made available for somalia from an edf envelope from which it does not even benefit.
mr president, i share the view of those, in particular our spokesman, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, who have said that this issue of transatlantic relations should now be focused on what we have in common rather than on our differences, which we all know and which many speakers have mentioned. it is a time not to look back in anger but to look forward with hope. in this context, with the arrival of the president of the united states next month, is it not possible for the commission, the council and parliament to think of three major areas where we could cooperate in the terms we have used in our joint resolution on a community of action? a community of action that will seek to develop a peace initiative in the middle east; a community of action that will search for global security in the fight against international terrorism, cooperation in development assistance and in facing the new global challenges of the disasters in the middle east which the president-in-office of the council mentioned. last but not least, a community of action that will pick up the ideas which, i hope, the commission will come forward with on strengthening the economic partnership. that is the idea, which parliament has endorsed on several occasions, of completing the transatlantic market and fixing a date of 2015, so that we can really mobilise the communities on both sides of the atlantic to complete a barrier-free transatlantic market. last but not least, the commission will be coming forward with its review of the new transatlantic agenda, and we in this house have insisted on many occasions – and once again in the joint resolution – that we should take the opportunity to upgrade this relationship; show that it is visible to the peoples on both sides of the atlantic, and not exclude, as the new transatlantic agenda does today, the political communities. we need to find a way to bring all the actors together in what we have called a partnership agreement, because i am certain that if, with the arrival of the us president, the opportunity is taken by the incoming administrations on both sides to shape a new strengthened transatlantic partnership, we all will be beneficiaries.
mr president, this debate has rightly highlighted the need actively to rebuild relationships between the usa and europe. that need has been recognised by almost all sides across the house. certainly it is reflected within our parliament's delegation for us relations. this is not only because we enjoy the most important global trading relationship, a trading volume of more than eur 1 billion per day, but also because we share a common interest in finding solutions to major issues such as climate change, terrorism, security and peace in the middle east. since the re-election of president bush, we have noted the many positive comments from the us administration in support of better relations. europe has seen visits last month from secretary of state colin powell, today from head of homeland security tom ridge and will see a visit tomorrow from senate majority leader bill frist. i understand that president chirac will visit washington in the next few weeks. all this is welcome but these visits have almost all taken place within the context of bilateral relations rather than through visits to eu institutions. on the day when this parliament has strongly supported the new eu constitution, it is worth noting that the us still largely sees its european relations in these bilateral terms. i have high expectations that our new ambassador, mr bruton, will be able to raise the profile of the eu. i suggest that he be invited in future to attend debates of this nature. i also welcome president bush's intention to visit the eu institutions next month, but i await further details of how widespread the us authorities consider eu institutions to be. for instance, i am not aware that he has any intention to address this parliament. i believe that our parliament also bears some responsibility here. in 1999 we gave our full support to the creation of a transatlantic legislative dialogue, major parts of which we and the us have never implemented. as mrs mann said previously, we gave our support to the creation of a single transatlantic market by 2015, but we have not seen many steps towards taking that forward. i believe we need a renewed sense of purpose to reforge the transatlantic relationship. i trust that we will take the very many positive ideas and words of this debate forward into practical and effective steps, which will be to the mutual advantage of both sides.
counsel. mr president, this debate on debt relief is timely. these days, talks are taking place in paris on debt relief for the countries severely affected by the disaster in the indian ocean. such relief must be substantial and implemented promptly. the paris club is meeting today to discuss a moratorium on the debt of countries wishing to obtain such relief. we also recognize that the situation in iraq, which has given rise to this question and this debate, is quite special and exceptional. the debt relief, and i would say the substantial debt relief, which was decided by the paris club in november in favour of the republic of iraq is, without doubt, a necessity for the economic reconstruction of that country, as well as for the rebirth of a sovereign iraq with democratic and legitimate institutions. but the question of the necessary debt relief, as i have just said, in the case of iraq, also arises, and i would add, with equal urgency, in the case of the least developed countries. it would be incomprehensible, even absurd, for debt relief to be granted only to a country that has suffered from a natural disaster or a conflict. absolute poverty is the source of real daily disasters, in the form of malnutrition, chronic illiteracy, high infant mortality, aids and so on. it blocks development and fuels all kinds of conflicts, often causing thousands, even tens of thousands, of deaths, often in silence and ignorance of the media. debt relief for the poorest countries is therefore at the heart of the fight against poverty and of support for a policy of poverty eradication and the relaunching of a development process in line with the millennium development goals. a high level of indebtedness and a debt burden that is no longer commensurate with the economic capacity of a country blocks any prospect of development and paradoxically leads, not to the economic take-off originally intended, but to a creeping impoverishment of the populations of the poorest countries. the european union has not remained inactive in the face of this situation and will not do so in the future. concrete commitments were made at the monterrey conference. the april general affairs and external relations council will discuss a possible revision of the union's commitments made at monterrey. debt relief efforts for the least developed countries have been particularly concretized in the high indebted poor countries (hipc) initiative, proposed by the world bank and the imf in 1996 and strengthened in 1999. it is a coordinated approach to bring the debt of the poorest countries down to a sustainable level: public, bilateral and multilateral debt, as well as trade debt. forty-two countries are potentially involved in this initiative, of which thirty-eight are sub-saharan african countries. the results obtained so far are positive but still insufficient. the trade debt has not been reduced much. the european union provided about 60% of the funding for the hipc initiative. a number of creditors have not yet made any relief. the future british presidency of the g8 and the eu has made debt relief for the ldcs a priority objective. we want to work closely with the uk to ensure that the european union develops a coherent and ambitious approach in this area. debt relief must remain a priority objective of the union's development cooperation policy. it cannot be isolated from other policies: trade policy, including the adoption of a new system of generalised preferences, positive conclusions in the doha round in favour of developing countries, an increase in development aid focused on poverty eradication, support for good governance, conflict resolution and prevention.
commission. mr president, we all agree that for some developing countries external indebtedness is a major obstacle for growth and development. we should acknowledge the merits of the debt relief initiative currently applied, the highly indebted poor countries – or hipc –initiative, which was launched in 1996. this is the most comprehensive debt relief initiative ever taken. it will reduce the debt burden of the highly indebted poor countries by approximately two-thirds, demonstrating a commitment to poverty reduction. the commission and the member states have gone beyond the hipc requirements. most member states have committed themselves to cancelling 100% of the bilateral claims. the commission has done the same for all special loans in least developed countries eligible for hipc debt relief. however, it is now widely recognised that hipc relief will fail to ensure long-term debt sustainability. it is clear that more needs to be done for the poor countries that benefit from the hipc initiative. pressure is increasing to extend debt relief to the other developing countries. the world bank and the imf are developing a new framework for long-term debt sustainability in low-income countries. this should help to prevent the accumulation of new debt. the commission is following this debate closely to ensure the transparency of the decision-making process. the paris club of creditor governments has developed the so-called evian approach to deal with non-hipc countries. it takes into account debt sustainability considerations, allowing the paris club to adopt its response to the financial situation of the debtor country and to make the resolution of crises more orderly, timely and predictable. one application of these new rules was the iraqi case. the commission is not a priori against debt relief in favour of middle-income countries. it supports the evian approach of the paris club, which looks at the financial situation of each country rather than defining standard terms as has been done in the case of iraq. iraq is not indebted to the commission but, as a sign of solidarity with the iraqi people, the community pledged a contribution of eur 200 million to the reconstruction fund facility for iraq at the madrid conference. however, the commission does not want assistance for iraq, whether through debt relief or other mechanisms, to be given at the expense of the poorest countries. more recently, the uk and the us have both called for 100% cancellation of multilateral debt for low-income countries, although with different approaches towards its financing. the proposal of full cancellation may appear attractive, but it entails risks in terms of aid allocation. the commission's finance study demonstrates that the hipc initiative has already distorted the allocation of aid because the levels of debt relief are not related indicators of poverty, nor – and this is very important – do they reflect performance in tackling poverty. the countries benefiting most from the initiative are by no means the best performers or the poorest countries within the group. some examples will illustrate my point. the country benefiting most on a per capita basis from hipc debt relief is guyana, with usd 769 per capita received. it ranks 92nd in the human development index. however, niger, which ranks 174th in that index, receives only usd 48 per capita relief. the total cancellation of debt for all african countries would lead to considerable inequalities in the distortion of aid among them, measured by their relative poverty levels. eritrea – one of the poorest countries in africa – would receive usd 56 per capita, while the seychelles, one of the richest countries of the continent, would receive usd 2 572 per capita, which makes a huge difference. further debt relief could lead to further distortions in aid allocation. in a world of limited resources, debt relief granted to middle-income countries should not detract from the amounts available to the neediest ones. so, debt relief is a bad aid allocation mechanism, but it can be a good way of delivering aid, as it provides a quick method of disbursement, ensuring a predictable flow of resources directly into the budget with limited transaction costs. it could also be used to protect vulnerable, low-income countries from the effect of exogenous shocks. in these cases, some sort of temporary relief of the debt could help mitigate the adverse effects of external shocks on the poverty-reduction strategies of beneficiary countries. that is also the case as regards the moratoriums, which, as already mentioned, were discussed today by the presidency in paris in relation to the tsunami-affected countries. to sum up, debt relief is not a panacea which by itself creates new resources, nor does it automatically translate into services for poor people or economic growth. however, it may be an effective way to deliver support and a good way to provide swift assistance after shocks. to tackle poverty and to attain the millennium development goals, the real challenge is to ensure appropriate levels of development financing. we need to reach agreement on new and sufficiently ambitious targets for official development assistance by 2009 for us to have a real prospect of attaining those goals. debt relief can be a useful tool in that quest, but it can by no means offer a really full response.
, on behalf of the group. – madam president, i am glad we are having this debate today on debt relief. it is vital that even as we pay necessary and proper attention to tsunami relief, we also remain focused on the wider and longer-term issue of poverty reduction and the millennium development goals. debt relief is key to achieving the millennium development goals. in the past, the measure used to calculate whether debt was sustainable was a calculation of debt payment against export income, but the really crucial question is how much of the national budget is being used to repay debt. in many african countries, debt service payments still take up a larger share of the budget than health services. in ghana, for example, 11% of government spending goes into repaying debt, while only 9% is spent on health. if we want debt relief to contribute to achieving the millennium development goals, then we need to acknowledge that debt is unsustainable wherever it prevents a country financing its poverty reduction programmes. it follows that international money to fund debt relief must be in addition to, and not instead of, aid. i am very concerned that the united states envisages a reduction in aid budgets to fund debt cancellation. in fact, debt cancellation needs to go hand-in-hand with an increase in aid and the alde resolution includes a renewed pledge that member states give 0.7% of gdp as overseas development assistance. it also follows that debt reduction can only contribute to achieving the millennium development goals if it takes place under good governance. nothing will be achieved if the money saved through debt relief is spent by a corrupt dictator on expensive palaces or, even worse, on attack helicopters to terrorise a section of the population. the governments of developing countries have a responsibility to invest in their own people, but we in the european institutions have a responsibility to make sure that flexible mechanisms for debt relief are available.
counsel. madam president, we would draw the honourable member's attention to the recent conclusions adopted in the council on the future of research policy: the council conclusions of 24 september 2004 on european research policy and the presidency conclusions on the future european research support policy, drawn up at the competitiveness council on 25 and 26 november, which were supported by a large majority of delegations. the two texts set out in detail the council's opinion on the possible future development of european research policy. in its september conclusions, the council also expressed its views on the commission's response to the high-level expert group chaired by professor marimon, which was responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the instruments used to implement the sixth framework programme. in the same conclusions, the council stressed the importance of strengthening research and technological development at european level, as a necessary complement to national efforts, and drew particular attention to the need to exert a strong leverage effect on private investment in research, for which the member states are largely responsible. it also stressed the important role played by smes in enhancing the union's innovation and research capacities and, in this context, recommended that simpler and less bureaucratic methods be applied to implement the next framework programme. as the honourable member will no doubt be aware, the under-investment in scientific and technological development in europe compared to the united states goes back many years, but the gap has widened since the mid-1990s. only since the adoption of the lisbon strategy in 2000 and the 3% investment target set in barcelona in 2002 has sustained effort been made to meet the challenge. it should also be recalled that the european union is beginning to take important steps to develop rtd activities in the fields of security policy and space policy. european research and development policy is a crucial element of the lisbon strategy, the importance of which was highlighted in particular by the former dutch prime minister wim kok in his report entitled 'meeting the challenge', but which was also emphasized very explicitly this morning by the president of the european council and the president of the commission. the council, in preparation for the spring european council, broadly shares the analysis in the kok report. this will undoubtedly be taken into account in the seventh rtd framework programme, which is likely to be adopted in the first half of 2006, in co-decision with the european parliament. however, the form and scale of the next framework programme will also depend on the funds available, which, as the honourable member will understand, will depend in the first instance on the outcome of the ongoing discussions on the financial perspective.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for an extremely comprehensive reply to my question. he referred to the kok report, as i do in my question, but the report further recommended – as he will probably be aware – establishing a european research council, rather on the lines of the national science foundation in america. this would be an independent body, run by scientists and academics and providing grants for science, engineering and social sciences. it is something which might need funding of about eur 2 billion a year. will the council be considering this at the meeting to which he referred in march? does he personally think it is a good idea? and, if so, will he put his personal commitment behind it to persuade his colleagues in the 24 other countries that this is an idea worth pursuing.
counsel. the council has not yet taken up this matter. i think we have to be pragmatic. we must certainly look at these proposals, the irish proposal and the spanish government's proposal. i cannot prejudge the outcome of the council. i refer to the declaration annexed to the text of the constitution, which is, in a way, a pragmatic approach to the problem. if we are to proceed in this direction, i hope and wish that we can reach a solution acceptable to all.
clearly there is a danger, now that spain and ireland have made their requests, that other member states will follow through. in my own country of scotland we have gaelic as a minority language, and in wales there is a different version of gaelic as a minority language. in the interim, subject to the final settlement of this at community level, i wonder whether the presidency would encourage member states collectively to print key community documents, such as the constitution, and key legislative texts in all the minority languages of their member state. then it would not be a community burden; it would be a burden on the member states. that would be a pragmatic way of getting round this difficulty.
counsel. madam president, the council is actively monitoring the implementation of the european union guidelines on children in armed conflict and has recently published a document outlining the situation and an action plan. this document gives an overview of the activities carried out by the european union and its member states in 2004, in particular in the field of technical assistance, political instruments for crisis management and cooperation with the un, ngos and other international organisations. it also contains an action plan to translate the general objectives of the guidelines into more concrete political and practical commitments by the european union. it aims to reconcile technical assistance and political action, highlighting the gaps and opportunities for increased cooperation on this issue. at present, this action is aimed at a number of countries where children are particularly affected by armed conflict: burundi, colombia, côte d'ivoire, liberia, rwanda, sierra leone, sri lanka, sudan, uganda, the democratic republic of congo, afghanistan, burma and nepal.
i thank the president-in-office for the clarity of his answer in listing the countries concerned. it is precisely those countries that are the subject of many representations received by members. we now believe that the problem of child soldiers is not a marginal problem. we now know that this is a commonplace phenomenon in countries other than those he has actually mentioned, for example in the middle east. we expect the luxembourg presidency, and indeed the uk presidency, to maintain this issue at the top of the agenda. any country currently experiencing difficulties, such as sri lanka, has this problem. we can see that on our television screens. i urge the council not to treat this as a marginal issue, but to maintain it at the top of development issues, as well as foreign affairs issues, during the luxembourg presidency. i thank him again for giving such a clear answer.
counsel. i can assure the honourable member that the luxembourg presidency attaches great importance to this and will keep this matter on the agenda.
madam president, on a point of order, this is not a criticism of you or the luxembourg presidency, but of the way we organise the business in this house. too often we see question time as an expendable part of our activities. for humble backbenchers, it is sometimes the only opportunity that we get to put questions to the commission and the council and to get direct responses. it is a shame if we continue to allow this process of squeezing question time out of our business. i would ask you to raise this with the bureau.
mr president, commissioner rehn stated recently in a financial times article that the eu cannot close its doors to future enlargement, which is extended to all european countries with a european vocation and common democratic values. then, for unexplained reasons, ukraine is labelled a 'neighbour of europe' with no prospects for eu membership, only closer integration with the eu. the orange revolution, which heralded a remarkable change in democratic thinking in ukraine, occurred without any eu carrots being held out to change its system of government. that contrasts markedly with turkey and the western balkans, which are offered full membership – clearly, in my view, a morally unsustainable position in the long run. i always supported ukraine's eu-membership aspirations. the denial of eu prospects to ukraine reflects the unfounded fears in the council, on the part of the french in particular, of serious agricultural competition, and, on the part of the germans, of serious industrial competition, notwithstanding the fact that the common agricultural policy will be obsolete by the time ukraine is ready to join in 10 to 15 years' time, and that industrial relocation is much more likely for a ukraine in the wto but outside the eu than it is for a ukraine as a member state of the eu with all the onerous single market requirements. i would also recommend the oecd to ukraine, but full oecd membership requires wto membership first, one of the new government's pressing goals. curiously, the commission continues to deny ukraine – unlike russia – market economy status. given the expectations now raised with ukraine's people, unless the eu accepts that ukraine can have some kind of long-term aspiration of eu membership, it will be difficult for president yushchenko to implement the much-needed political and economic reforms and win the parliamentary elections of 2006. one major policy change that the new government of ukraine could make and which would demonstrate kiev's independence from russia is to help solve the transnistria problem. that breakaway territory of moldova is a haven for criminal activity, including money laundering and arms smuggling, and poses a serious security problem for the eu after 2007, when our borders will extend to moldova. this could be a useful way of showing brussels that ukraine really is now independent from moscow and seriously wants to do business in the international arena.
mr president, i had the privilege of being part of the european parliament's election observation mission to ukraine on polling day. i was deployed in a rural area about 80 kilometres from kiev and saw, as any individual observer does, only a microcosm of the story across the whole country. however, i also saw the overall picture as reported by the osce election observation mission. it is clear that there was an essential integrity to this election that was lacking in the earlier one. the margin of victory was of an order of magnitude greater than any possible margin of fraud. it was clear that the majority of ukrainians had chosen mr yushchenko and not mr yanukovych as their president. it was essentially a victory for the urban intelligentsia and the rural population over the urban working class. yet at the same time it was also victory for cleaner politics over deeply soiled politics. the celebrations in independence square in kiev on boxing day evening, welcoming the rebirth of democracy in ukraine, were an inspiration. i welcome the election result as an affirmation of democracy, even if doubts remain over all aspects of the social and economic programme espoused by president yushchenko. the eu will need to look again at its engagement with ukraine, at least in terms of quality, if not in terms of quantity. at the same time, if ukraine is not to be torn apart between east and west, rural and urban, president yushchenko must seek to build bridges, not with the deeply flawed politicians that preceded him, but with the constituencies that they represent.
commission. mr president, i have taken careful note of all the statements made and will now address some of the key points mentioned. i have also carefully considered the criticisms. first, i will say a few words about what the european neighbourhood policy entails and, after that, i will provide clarification on the action plan, that is to say, i will look at its substance and how to proceed with it. the european neighbourhood policy is a major step forward for the countries concerned, in the relations between these countries and the european union. it is a very ambitious policy which entails a substantive upgrading of our relationship with partners through deeper political cooperation and a significant degree of economic integration, bringing partners closer to the internal market. implementing this policy with ukraine – the eu-ukraine action plan – would send a strong message that the eu places great importance on the relationship and acknowledges kiev's european orientation. the european neighbourhood policy is truly distinct from the issue of possible further enlargement of the eu but does not close any doors. with regard to the action plan, let me stress the importance of making full use of the action plan, thus enhancing the eu's relationship with ukraine. it would be difficult to say that an action plan is an outdated instrument before we have actually used it and implemented it in any countries. it is truly a new instrument which should be implemented as soon as possible. what are the main characteristics of an action plan? it is true that, in principle, its approach is the same for all countries. however, it is highly flexible, always tailor-made for the country concerned and, with the concrete proposals on which the commission and the council are already working, we can go as far as the country concerned wants and can afford. i can assure you that, in the case of ukraine, the commission is ready to go far. i conclude by saying again – because it is an important message – that the eu has repeatedly acknowledged and welcomed ukraine's european aspirations. the recent dramatic events in ukraine have reconfirmed that country's place on the european map. we have no doubt that these events will go down in history as a milestone not only for ukraine but also for the eu's relations with that country.
mr president, on 9 june 2004 the college of the commission decided to dismiss 43 language teachers with almost immediate effect. nine days later the officials responsible reported this decision to the teachers themselves at a general assembly in brussels. i should like to quote directly from what two of the teachers said on that occasion:'we denounce the flagrant lack of openness on the part of the commission, who waited until today to announce the breaking of the teachers' contracts. in a europe which claims to be social, we also denounce the cynicism of the commission, which has plunged these workers into great difficulties - workers, some of whom are main bread-winners with children, many of whom are women. most of these teachers are of an age at which it would be extremely difficult to find suitable employment. in the march 1997 trialogue agreement the teachers showed their willingness to collaborate in return for a promise by the commission to maintain their contracts until retirement. not so long ago miss morelli, in charge of training in the council, in the presence of commission representatives, reaffirmed on several occasions that the jobs of the teachers were guaranteed until they retired. we wish to record formally the breaking of these promises by the commission.' i believe that lengthy quote sums up a sad story very well. i have met with the dismissed teachers many times in recent months and have read a great deal of documentation from the time leading up to their dismissal. from that a number of things stand out. first, that for the teachers this decision came like a bolt from the blue. they were given absolutely no prior information about the plans for their dismissal. they were not consulted at all about those plans. documents from throughout 2003 and the first half of 2004 show that at a whole series of meetings the teachers were given the impression that everything was fine, it was business as usual. one set of papers from mid-2003 actually dismisses rumours of planned restructuring. other papers show the perfectly normal forward-planning of language training for the 2004-05 period but suddenly, in june 2004, the teachers learned of their abrupt dismissal. secondly, it stands out that the commission clearly feels that it is above and beyond the law. any private entity behaving in the way that the commission has would find itself in breach of eu laws on information and consultation, collective redundancies and transfer of undertakings. no doubt we will be told today that the belgian laws giving effect to these eu directives do not apply to the commission as a public administration, and yet these teachers were employed on belgian employment contracts that are subject to belgian employment law. this is the same institution that asks the corporate world to act in a socially responsible way and yet the way in which it has handled this matter so far has been totally socially irresponsible. thirdly, the commission has shown a total lack of regard for the plight of these people. over 60% of them are aged over 55. six months after the commission decision their worst fears about not finding work at their age have proved only too real. worse still, because of the restricted hours they were allowed under the contracts the commission agreed with them it appears, according to a document i have received, that: 'the teachers may not be entitled to unemployment benefits, early retirement and social security cover'. that would leave them without cover until the age of 65, when their entitlement would become about eur 500 per month. clearly a number of the families dependent on these teachers face the real prospect of poverty. finally, in relation to the trialogue agreement of 1997, the teachers and their representatives had the clearest understanding that they would be employed until retirement in exchange for agreeing new work practices and to work being put out to outside firms as teachers left. this was widely published at the time – in trade union newsletters, for example – and no-one from the commission seemed to have contradicted that. a commission official said something telling to us when we questioned her on this in committee. she said that sometime after the trialogue agreement the commission's legal service was asked to give an opinion on whether such a guarantee was possible. the service said that it was not possible. an important question arises from that. why was the legal service asked to give an opinion if such a guarantee had not been given at the trialogue? it seems clear that, whether committed to writing or not, such a guarantee was indeed given and that the commission, having sat silent at the many meetings at which that guarantee has been mentioned since, was quite content to allow everyone to continue with that understanding until it became opportune to go back to that legal opinion. the commission has behaved in a disgraceful manner. however, it is never too late. i understand that a meeting will take place tomorrow between the commission and the unions in brussels. i hope that will be the first step towards reinstatement of these teachers.
commission. mr president, honourable members, i have been listening carefully to what you have been saying and i shall comment briefly on the four things you mentioned. first of all, there are a few reasons why we cannot rehire the teachers, the first of which is financial: such hiring would be incompatible with the financial regulation in two aspects, the first of which is procurement and the second is the principle of sound financial management. the second reason is legal. if the teachers were rehired, language courses would continue to be delivered by internal teachers and teachers employed at the language schools. this coexistence has always constituted a legal risk. the difference in salary and other conditions was significant. in this respect, there is a risk that such a difference of treatment between employees who essentially carried out the same duties would be considered by the belgian courts as an illegal contractual construction. the third reason concerns assessing whether rehiring the teachers would mean having to negotiate new conditions. experience shows that internal teachers were not particularly flexible vis-à-vis the commission, despite the advantageous conditions it offered. secondly, there was the question about procurement restrictions. this was not a restrictive procedure. the financial regulation obliges the commission to issue an open call for tenders where the four-year amount is in excess of around eur 155 000. in fact, the call for candidates was opened and published in the official journal. the selection procedure was conducted on the basis of financial and technical criteria. the successful candidates were then allowed to compete and, finally, contractors for different lots were then chosen on the basis of cost and quantity. i will very briefly address the issue of total savings. they were calculated in terms of the difference between what it would cost to maintain the teachers' contracts and the cost of severance payments. the savings were calculated on the basis of the costs for 2003. the total savings also took into account the total cost of the language-training programme, each teacher being replaced at retirement age by a contractor employee, and the total cost of the same language-training programme executed exclusively by contractors as from september 2004. finally, account was taken of the sum of annual savings over the 2004-2031 period, when the fewest teachers would, theoretically, retire. at the beginning there would be many such teachers, but the number would decrease towards the end of that period. the final calculation under this scheme showed that the savings would come to eur 23.8 million. a remark was made about the exaggerated figure. on the contrary, the eur 23.8 million – cited in the documents prepared for the commission decision – to which i referred corresponds to the cost of continuing teachers' contracts, and that was reduced to eur 20 million. the decision was taken on that basis. the real amount also depends on individual decisions by teachers to take early retirement or to leave on personal grounds of invalidity and sickness, and, lastly, on the salary and contract cost evaluation. in this context we wanted to err on the side of caution. the final point raised concerns the british council and its work. according to information provided by the contractors, i can assure you that no previous or present commissioner is a member of the management board of any of the previous or current contractors. in 2004 the british council tendered for english courses, but the contracts were awarded to cll and lerian communications.
mr president, i have a point of order under rule 9 and annex 1 of our rules of procedure on a code of conduct for members. one of our so-called colleagues in this house, jean-marie le pen, is reported in an interview in the neo-fascist paper rivarol as having stated that the nazi occupation of france was not particularly inhumane. he has clearly forgotten the deaths of 73,000 french jews, the concentration camp in nearby natzweiler-struthof and the massacre of jews, roma and resistance fighters in france during that period, of whom he, at one time, claimed to be one. the code of conduct does not allow us to comment on such outrageous statements, but i would like you, mr president, to disavow those statements on behalf of this house. (applause)
in writing. i will be supporting this resolution, as the chief election observer for the european union election observation mission to indonesia. i visited aceh and the city of banda aceh six months ago. i have still been unable to establish the fate of my interpreter and driver from banda aceh. i therefore have an appreciation of the scale of the disaster in indonesia and the andaman islands. what worries me is that the commission is committing a fraud on the people of europe and the people of indonesia and asia. the so-called 'aid' in reality is the poor helping the poor, as rather than providing new money we are merely shifting money already allocated to the region from people in desperate need to the poor victims of this tragic demonstration of the narrow line mankind walks on earth. we do not need a tsunami warning centre in asia. the information is already available at centres like the uk's atomic weapons research establishment, where all earthquake data is available in real time. all that has to happen is for this information, when necessary, to be immediately communicated to the governments concerned.
in writing. i welcome this resolution which recalls the scale of the tragedy faced by the peoples of the indian ocean and our european solidarity with them. the resolution is nevertheless right to note that much of the money pledged by eu governments to help rebuild the shattered infrastructure and lives in the countries hit by the tsunami is not new money but has largely been taken from other development projects. we must not ask the people of africa and other poor countries to bear the cost of our justified humanitarian response to the tsunami victims. the money we give should be in addition to our normal development budget. the international community should also pay particular attention to the plight of children, some of whom face the real danger of being victims twice if they are not given protection from those ever willing to exploit their vulnerability
in writing. the recent eu/us agreement over airbus / boeing should do much to improve the climate of trade talks between the two. mr mandelson deserves our warm congratulations for brokering this settlement. however, other serious transatlantic problems remain, such as the failure of the us to sign-up for the international criminal court and the kyoto protocol. progress in these issues could lead to effective joint action by the two sides of the atlantic. as the resolution rightly points out, a transatlantic 'community of action' could help resolve the middle east crisis in palestine, iran and iraq. it could help in the fight against international terrorism and could contribute to achieving the millennium development goals of reducing poverty, disease and environmental degradation.
mr president, just two months ago we highlighted the plight of the tibetan monk tenzin deleg rinpoche who was sentenced to death on 3 december 2002 in an unfair trial on politically motivated charges. we return today to his case. it is a reminder to us all that, even though this is 2005, some people in our world today still cannot practice their religious beliefs without the threat of violence or, in tenzin deleg rinpoche's case, death. since we last spoke about his case in this house, there have been rumours that his death sentence has been suspended and may be commuted to a life sentence. i am pleased to hear mr mann's comments. i suggest that we still urge the chinese authorities immediately to clarify the situation and urge – as our resolution says – the chinese government to commute the death sentence handed down to tenzin deleg rinpoche. we should also ask the chinese authorities further to clarify where tenzin deleg rinpoche is being held and whether he is in good health. for the time being, no one knows his exact location. i also believe this house should strongly support the continuation of the eu embargo on arms sales to the people's republic of china until such time as the human rights situation has improved and china has taken the vital step of signing the united nations covenant on civil and political rights. further to this, we must continue to exert pressure on china to abolish the death penalty and place an immediate moratorium on capital punishment. we should be stressing to the chinese authorities that tenzin deleg rinpoche deserves a fair trial and not a sham trial. to conclude, there are many like tenzin deleg rinpoche out there in our world today who deserve our support and the right to live in a country where religious freedom and human rights are respected. i hope this house can support this resolution.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, i have to say that i agree with mr markov and we should be calling on some of our colleagues here to wake up, because the eu policy of appeasing the cruel, fundamentalist dictatorship in tehran has simply encouraged the mullahs to introduce increasingly repressive measures and carry out more sickening displays of barbarity. public hangings are now an almost daily spectacle, often involving the execution of children, the mentally handicapped and even pregnant women. six pregnant women have been executed this year alone. stoning to death, amputation of limbs, floggings and torture are commonplace. this is a fascist regime that has made a farce of democracy and has consigned human rights to the dustbin. only today the nobel peace prize winner has been summoned to the office of the public prosecutor, which is an outrage. i hope you will write to the iranian ambassador and object to that. last month, maryam rajavi, the charismatic leader of the iranian opposition movement, came here to the european parliament in strasbourg and told us that the solution in confronting this challenge is neither appeasement nor a military invasion. the iranian people themselves, through their courageous resistance movement, have the capacity to bring about change. but we have to offer them encouragement. so it is vitally important that we support article 9 of this resolution which would enable us to look again at the eu terror list which, at the insistence of the mullahs, includes the name of the iranian resistance, the people's mujahedin. as a major us intelligence investigation recently disclosed, there is no justification for keeping the name of the mujahedin on the eu terror list. indeed, by agreeing to this demand from the mullahs, we have given them a further reason to impose the death penalty on supporters of the resistance movement. right now, three men are awaiting execution in iran simply because they support the people's mujahedin. they have been accused of no other crimes but, according to the mullahs' website, the death penalty is justified because the mujahedin appears on the eu terror list. this is the result of our squalid attempts at appeasement and we must do something to stop it.
mr president, trafficking and sexual exploitation is, in effect, modern-day slavery. in cambodia alone, it is estimated that a staggering 8 000 to 100 000 women and children could be caught up in the sex trafficking industry. that is according to a cambodian government report. those figures have increased dramatically since the 1990s. it is also estimated that the judiciary fails to convict in 94% of the cases brought to court. prosecutions need to be increased, but must also result in convictions, meaning that corruption has to be stamped out. often it is the poor who are convicted – a mother selling her daughter, for instance, to put food on the table. according to one cambodia ngo, the police, military police, army and other state personnel are involved in this trade, and are running or protecting trafficking rings and brothels. traffickers quite often receive assistance from immigration officials. the eu must work with governments and local and international ngos to put an end to this trade. cooperation between thailand, vietnam, hong kong, is absolutely imperative in order to stop the flow of sex workers across borders. we also need education and training for border police. sex workers should have access to affordable legal advice so as to increase the conviction rate. regarding hiv and aids, prevention is also a priority. ngos need increased funding and assistance, not only for these areas, but also to rehabilitate victims. the eu must continue targeting development aid to the poverty­stricken areas of cambodia so that young women who escape have an actual alternative and are not lured back into the trade through desperation.
, on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, as jean monnet once said ‘each man begins the world afresh and only institutions grow wiser’. president barroso, you now represent the collective experience of the european commission. you will have to draw quickly on the collective wisdom of its services and enrich the european experience, in tandem with the european parliament as a partner in europe’s growth and prosperity. mr barroso, i believe your priorities reflect those of the majority of this house, which believes that we cannot build a house on unstable foundations. if we want a prosperous europe, a europe of sustainable development, a europe that can fight poverty at home and abroad and a europe able to project its values around the globe, then we must begin by securing a strong and viable economy where businesses and innovation can flourish. if europe is to have meaning for its citizens, then we have to establish practical and tangible priorities. there is a danger, as we have witnessed with the lisbon agenda, that in attempting to do too many things in too many fields we achieve little of substance and leave the european people unable to see the wood for the trees. you are right to underpin your objectives with a push for better communication and better information. this should have been done a long time ago. we have allowed the persistent drip of half-truths and myths propagated by nationalists to poison the minds of too many of our fellow citizens. this year of referendums on the constitution must be a rallying cry to all those who believe in the european project, for this is not about ratifying a text that people have not read, it is about whether europe’s citizens still believe strongly enough in what the european union stands for. you outline four objectives. first, prosperity. the lisbon agenda holds the key to your success, and if you can deliver prosperity and growth through improved competitiveness and knowledge-sharing then we can all partake of the dividends. liberals and democrats hope to see improvements to and a more intelligent application of the stability and growth pact that underpins the euro. ultimately, however, our growth and prosperity also depends on implementation at national level of the key structural reforms. second, you talked about solidarity – the flip side of the coin. without that we have no europe. a prosperous economy is a means to an end, but not an end in itself. european history is anchored in its commitment to solidarity and cohesion, to judicious management of natural resources and respect for common values and cultural diversity. we have to improve both the effectiveness and the accountability of our structural funds. since there are good reasons why we cannot afford to be parsimonious in our future budgetary planning, liberals and democrats will fully support a costed and justified budget for the union for the next five years. security is a matter of common concern, with the tentacles of international terrorism having made themselves felt from manhattan to madrid. if we do not find an adequate response to such threats, then the pillars of freedom on which our union rests will begin to crumble. however, we must not go overboard in attempting to deal with security threats that are often intangible. we need a much wider debate on the balance between security and civic freedoms and i welcome the commission’s proposals on immigration and asylum, which will be instrumental in steering a discussion based on justice and honesty, rather than pandering to fear and scaremongering. finally, let us have ambitions for the wider world that are based not on imposition by military force but on the projection of soft force – of political dialogue, exchange, economic incentives and sanctions, humanitarian relief and trade agreements. you must deploy all of those tools in a coherent strategy that rewards good governance, punishes tyranny and shows care for the global environment. president barroso, your task is not an easy one. the hopes and futures of europe’s citizens rest in your hands. i shall end with another quotation from jean monnet, who stated in his memoirs that ‘a great statesman is one who can work for long-term goals which eventually suit situations as yet unforeseen’. president barroso, you have set us long-term goals and we trust you will earn the reputation of a great statesman in delivering them. (applause)
to my surprise, mr president, i enjoyed mr barroso’s speech. i particularly enjoyed the passage where he admitted to being short of money, although i fear this may be a first-time experience for some of the other members of the commission. mr barroso, you also said the european union will manage immigration and asylum policy. you said it is a european problem and therefore one best dealt with via a european approach. that was very helpful and will come as news to poor michael howard and the conservatives in the british parliament. it has to be said that your work programme has been shaped largely by the commission’s annual policy strategy for 2005, which was published in february 2004 under the last commission. it is mr prodi we should be questioning today about the commission’s central policy objective of economic growth. he did not do very well, did he? what a travesty of democracy! we have the eu’s policies for 2005 dictated by a defunct commission and approved by an expired parliament. it is only the present parliament that is sidelined. do not worry, though, mr barroso, your luck is in: very few meps will even notice. the uk independence party, however, is very grateful to you because, as we are wont to say, ‘worse is better’!
mr president, the commission’s so-called strategy is a grandiose illusion. continental europe is drowning in unemployment and feeble growth, and has been for years. has it never occurred to you, mr barroso, that you are a part of the problem and not a part of the solution? why do you never ask yourselves whether all your interference and regulation is necessary? can you not see the damage that your predecessors have done? have you learnt nothing from it? why do you presume to know better than those who use their initiative and enterprise to create wealth, investment and jobs? the best service you could do to the people of western europe today is to get out of the way. consign the lisbon strategy to the dustbin of history, along with all those still foolish enough to believe that bureaucrats and politicians know best.
mr president, the five-year programme is far more focused and clear than the strategy achieved by the previous commission. i would like to thank president barroso for having drawn substantively upon the outcome of parliament’s approval process for the new commission. the programme deserves serious reaction from parliament and from the european council. to put the emphasis on prosperity as a first priority is certainly brave. there are few levers at the disposal of the commission or the council to control macro-economic policy. the union has extremely limited fiscal power. therefore the completion of the single market in services – financial and also public – is not a luxury: it is crucial. personally, i would have wished to have seen greater stress on the importance of certain other member states, including the uk, embracing the single currency within the next five years. mr barroso said that bringing the constitution into force is a first step to greater legitimacy. it must be said that it is a prerequisite for almost everything else that we find inside the programme. certainly, without the planned improvements to a common foreign, security and defence policy, the union will be unable to play an effective part in global affairs, and relations with russia and the usa will remain feeble and prone to quarrels.
mr president, this is an important debate. the emphasis the commission places on creating prosperity in europe is welcome and overdue. central to success will be the outcome of the lisbon strategy – a review which will be discussed at the spring european council – and the language used on competitiveness, entrepreneurship, research, growth and jobs is more robust than under the last commission. mr barroso, i believe that you are personally committed to genuine economic reform in europe. your record as prime minister of portugal demonstrates you were interested in results, not simply rhetoric. i remain cautious about the potential of both the commission and certain member states in terms of the need for effective and tough reform of europe’s economies. the revised lisbon strategy must not be weighed down with political correctness, as in the past. much has now changed – enlargement of the european union has brought in countries which are strongly committed to flexible labour markets, to competitive taxation policies and the development of free trade. in addition, we face the major challenges of competing not just with the united states, but with the emerging giants in china and india. europe simply cannot go on talking about reform to meet these challenges; it must now deliver. i welcome the emphasis on member states applying eu legislation in their own countries. in the united kingdom we have sometimes had a tendency to enforce legislation over-enthusiastically, while other member states have a tendency at times to minimise the effects of the legislation they do not like. that is, of course, unacceptable. we must deliver less regulation, whether in the economic sphere or elsewhere. previous commissions talked about this. this commission must deliver and we must make matters simpler – simpler for the people to understand and simpler to implement. we will judge this commission partly on its effectiveness in creating the environment for real reform, its commitment to less and better regulation and its determination to ensure that taxpayers’ money is used efficiently, while fraud and mismanagement are tackled with great vigour.
mr president, mr barroso has rightly highlighted the lisbon agenda. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i would say that prerequisites for that agenda are a healthy environment and healthy people. there is work to be done in this year’s programme. on chemicals, we know that we do not have enough knowledge about them. most chemicals we depend on, some we handle with care and some need to be phased out or banned. we need a workable proposal. reach as such is costly, would take some 50 years to implement and would lose some six million lives of animals in the process. the commission should come forward with proposals that accept and adopt issues such as the ‘one substance, one registration’ proposal, or that on computer profiling and prioritisation. on climate change, we need to recognise that the consequences of global warming are not just creeping up on us, they are exploding in unexpected and devastating ways across our world. we need the united states as a partner on climate change. there is no point in hammering about kyoto to it, there is every point in encouraging the united states to develop its own policies and work with us to help save our planet. on patient mobility, the courts have ruled that patients have the right to go to other member states if they face undue delay in their own country. that is a great opportunity for patients, but it is a big headache for health service budget managers. it is urgent that we make the opportunity of patients a reality with effective guidance. if we fail to take a political lead on this and establish the ground rules, then the courts will continue to make policy for us. that is not the sort of europe that i want to see, dictated to simply by court decisions. lastly, we will probably very soon face a flu pandemic. it is urgent that we ensure the european centre for disease prevention and control becomes fully and effectively operational without any further delay.
mr president, i warmly welcome mr barroso’s strategic objectives because, for the first time, they set prosperity as the number one goal, the first step towards which is a friendly business environment. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection – which i have the privilege of leading for the ppe-de group – will work with you and your services to achieve those twin aims. the internal market is absolutely crucial in this respect, with 2005 marking a critical stage in the process, and i am delighted that you have identified the huge growth potential of services in this connection. the directive on the internal market for services is quite rightly an ambitious and wide-ranging project. members on my side of the house will work with you to deliver the growth market for services by pushing ahead with that important directive. changes may be needed in order for it to work, but you have our backing. do not listen to the siren voices on the other side of the house urging you to slow down. why is this internal market for services directive so important? it is important because we must move the internal market forward to the next stage, where member states start to trust each other to organise and control the market. we must make mutual recognition work, be it for goods or services. why can we not have country of origin control of business establishment? why can we not exchange information between administrations? why can we not trust governments to deliver? members on the other side of the house do not want this directive because they do not trust governments to deliver. indeed, the word ‘trust’ does not appear. however, i know you will not back down, and hope that you will take forward with the council the task of making the internal market work and of ensuring that internal market rules are enforced properly on the ground so that we can achieve our goals of a better environment and jobs and prosperity for everyone. (applause)
in writing.– mr barroso stated the commission´s intention to stimulate greater economic growth and cohesion throughout the eu. the strategic statement co-incides with the publication of latest eurostat wealth figures which highlight the poor performance of scotland compared with other similarly sized european nations. the gdp per capita figures show scotland trailing behind other small countries such as ireland, denmark and finland. these new eu figures are just the latest to show that the scottish economy is seriously under-performing. small countries such as ireland, denmark and finland yet again overtake scotland in terms of wealth. the figures are particularly damning for the government in relation to the north. after eu enlargement, the highlands and island are poorer even that parts of the czech republic, slovakia and hungary. eastern europe is now competing directly with scotland for jobs and wealth. scotland ought not to be so poor. the irish don't have oil. the finns don't have a world-class whisky industry. what they do have is the power to take charge of their own wealth. the key element lacking in the scottish economy is the power to make real decisions - independence is the missing ingredient.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, the european parliament seems to be an enthusiastic supporter of the presidential elections in palestine and of democracy in the middle east. does this mean that it will also be equally enthusiastic towards the coming elections in iraq? the iraqis are surely just as deserving of democracy as the palestinians. it will be interesting to see if president abbas has the will or the ability to curtail the murderous activities of the various terrorist organisations in his domain. since the european parliament had 28 observers present at the elections, perhaps they will report what role, if any, was played by hamas, fatah and the other terrorist groups in the election. parliament has, i believe, spent eur 17 million of taxpayers’ money on assistance to the palestinian elections. what proof do we have that this money was properly spent and accounted for? what proof do we have that none of this money found its way into the pockets of terrorist organisations? the european union has no legitimacy to play a part in the palestinian – or any other state’s – elections, but if it is going to pour millions of euros into them, then we should at least know where they have gone. it is remarkable, is it not, that the late president arafat – who was purportedly a lifelong and selfless champion of an impoverished people – seems nevertheless to have possessed enough part-time entrepreneurial skills to accumulate a multi-million dollar fortune. if only he had thought to remember the palestinian people in his will to a sufficient extent, then the recent elections could have been staged by his generosity, rather than as a further burden on the european taxpayer. if the european union insists on providing funding in the field of middle eastern politics, given its legendary levels of corruption we can at least ask that it receive and keep the receipts for its expenditure, contrary to practice to date!
mr president, i make no secret of the fact that in the middle east conflict my sympathies lie with israel. i represent northern ireland, a state which itself knows all about terrorism, and i can readily empathise with a small country that, since its inception, has found itself subjected to sustained and vicious terrorist attack. that empathy is increased by the fraternal links, over many years, between the ira and the plo. the historical record shows that active cooperation between the plo and the ira resulted in funding and training being arranged for the ira in middle eastern countries, and for years we had the spectacle of official plo delegates attending sinn féin conferences. as purveyors of death and destruction, they had much in common. just as there must be no room for terrorism in europe, so a prerequisite for political progress in the middle east is an end to all terrorism. i therefore encourage mr sharon to be resolute in refusing to deal with active terrorist organisations. drawing on northern ireland’s experience, i can tell him that pandering to terrorism never works: it only encourages its insatiable demands and breeds a political representation that is wedded to the muscle of terrorism.
mr president, i should be attending a bureau meeting, so i apologise if i do not stay for the whole debate. there is now a real hope for peace in the middle east after the generally free and fair election which took place to elect a successor to yasser arafat. at arafat’s funeral in cairo, where i represented the european parliament, intense discussion was already beginning about his successor and the opportunity for a new start. i congratulate mr solana for his active engagement in the region since that funeral and until today, and i urge him to continue it. for the presidential election, the european parliament sent its largest ever election observation mission. there were 28 members of the european parliament, chaired by myself, with mrs napoletano as deputy chairman, and we arrived in jerusalem a few days before the election. i wish to thank all colleagues on that mission – many of whom are here tonight, parliament’s staff for their outstanding support, and the interpreters. our delegation met the two principal candidates – mahmoud abbas and mustafa barghouti – as well as the chairman of the electoral commission and mr rocard, who will be speaking shortly. as chairman i laid a wreath at arafat’s tomb in the muqata. i also met smaller political parties contesting the elections and, in a completely private capacity, other palestinian groups. the european parliament delegation was consistently met with enthusiasm and confidence in the role that the european union could play in furthering the democratic process. the palestinians’ aspiration for eu support was clear, with the european union flag everywhere. now we must look to the future and support the palestinians in their preparations for the legislative elections and their reform of the electoral law. however, my main message tonight is that the presidential election was a model for the rest of the arab world, where no democracy exists. mahatma gandhi once said, ‘the spirit of democracy cannot be imposed from without’. mrs ferrero-waldner, however, said yesterday to the euro-mediterranean assembly, ‘we can encourage democracy, and we will’. i wholeheartedly support this view and believe that in this, the tenth anniversary year of the barcelona process, it is time for the european union decisively to raise its game in the wider middle east. after all, this is our neighbourhood, not the americans’.
mr president, i welcome the free and democratic election of president abbas as head of the palestinian authority. as an election observer, i was delighted to see the enthusiasm by civil society, including women, to participate in this experiment, unique in the arab world. in spite of calls by hamas for a boycott, even that organisation, afraid of being frozen out of the political process, is now talking of taking part in the parliamentary elections. abu mazen now has a strong mandate to negotiate with israel. i was disappointed at the low turnout in east jerusalem and the fear of palestinians resident there that they would lose their israeli ids if they voted. i was unhappy at the refusal of many polling-station officials to cooperate in releasing turnout figures and the size of the electoral list. there was some confusion between domestic and international observers, which must be sorted out before the parliamentary elections in july. i thank the idf for its cooperation at checkpoints. after the temporary setback caused by the tragic death of six israelis in gaza, president abbas is now making a vigorous attempt to rein in the terrorists by deploying his security forces to the gaza border. i call upon prime minister sharon to recognise this by restoring diplomatic contacts with the palestinian authority and putting the roadmap for peace back on the political agenda. i am convinced that a comprehensive peace plan through territorial exchange, which consolidates the security of the jewish state, is possible. i also believe the security fence has proven its value in reducing suicide-bomber attacks, does not reflect the final borders of the israeli state and can be moved or dismantled when a peace treaty is finally signed. the recent polls in israel, the west bank and gaza support the geneva accords as one such peace model. why not a simultaneous official plebiscite by both sides to reinforce mutual recognition of the two-state solution? lastly, the role of iran – with tacit syrian support in arming and funding hizbollah, hell-bent on derailing abu mazen’s peace policy by supporting local terrorists in the west bank and gaza – is very dangerous. iran and syria must be warned off by the european union and hizbollah must be made a banned eu terrorist organisation.
mr president, as a member of parliament’s observation mission, i say to mr solana that i am now persuaded that the eu must consider using the leverage of trade as an influence for peace; that withdrawal from gaza, leaving it under siege, can never be a viable solution for its population; that european and international aid workers must be allowed visas to work with palestinian communities; and that we must assist reform of the palestinian authority. my abiding memories of the mission were that the most frequent word used by palestinians was ‘humiliation’; that 30 to 40 villagers at um al rehan were unable to vote because they lived on the wrong side of the security wall; that our observation mission itself was witness to beatings, shootings, kidnappings and bombings. was the democratic organisation of these elections by the palestinians a form of peaceful resistance to the occupation? yes. was this demonstration of democracy a message to the international community that they are absolutely ready to run their own state? yes. and when ordinary palestinians told us they were voting for abu mazen, yes, they said they were voting for peace.
mr president, the israeli-palestinian conflict is one of the world’s most persistent problems. the impact of this continuing conflict has adversely affected neighbouring populations in the arabian peninsula, the persian gulf, north africa, and has reached as far as europe and the usa. the conflict has resulted in injuries and deaths for thousands; poverty and distress for millions. the persistent attention and the combined strengths of the whole of the united nations, including the european union, has brought little or no relief for the population of both opponents. quarrels of this intensity, that stretch back to the roots of nations’ histories, have only one key that can open the door to peace. money will not do it, although it can ease the pain of continued poverty. power is hopeless in moving the minds of man. outsiders can only suggest: without force they cannot take the executive decisions required. the fundamental change from violence to peaceful solutions; the move from the use of weapons of war to dialogue as a means of reaching acceptable answers; there is only one thing that will tilt the balance, and that is the will of the people. once that is secured and is allowed by the men of violence to be expressed, democracy is the only formula for complete success. today the palestinians have spoken, their voice has been expressed peacefully through the ballot box. the result is that the union’s twenty-one year search for the two-state solution is now within reach. if this is good for palestine, why should we deny democracy to the remainder of the arabian peninsula and beyond? i have high hopes for the coming election in iraq, and elections that may happen later on in other states of the world where violence and non-peaceful solutions are used. this spread of democracy is the european union’s task now. it is one in which we can join hands with our american allies. where palestine leads, iraq can follow and perhaps other states will take the same solution.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, today and tomorrow parliament marks the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz-birkenau concentration camp. in this house there has been some controversy regarding geography and the nationality of those responsible. the key players were german nazis with their racial ideology that saw the jews as an evil, inferior race that should be exterminated, on the basis of their deeply flawed and distorted eugenics. there are those, unfortunately, who espouse this sickening ideology still among us today. the german nazis were aided and abetted by those of all races and nations who actively colluded in this extermination and by those who said nothing and allowed evil to flourish. yet no nation in europe was entirely innocent or entirely guilty. in britain only the channel islands were occupied by the nazis, but britons in authority there registered the channel islands’ jews, stamped ‘j’ on their passports and arranged all too efficiently for their transport to auschwitz, where without exception they were murdered. all this was after the british government of the time refused some of the same jews the right to flee for their lives to the uk mainland because they were considered enemy aliens. we also had the british free corps of dupes, deserters and fascists who fought alongside the nazis on the eastern front. however, this debate is not primarily about the past. it is about the future. earlier this week i attended an event organised in london by the anne frank trust, where 50 survivors of the holocaust gave their testimonies. they were not demanding more and better history, they were not arguing about the nationality or the geography of their captors and their guards. instead they were joined by survivors of kosovo and rwanda to demand ‘never again’. unfortunately, the forgetting has started. a fellow mep, mr le pen, recently stated that the nazi occupation of france was not particularly inhumane, despite the murder of 73 000 jews in the struthof concentration camp in france. prince harry – hopefully – illustrated his woeful ignorance of history by finding it amusing to attend a fancy-dress party as a nazi officer. the best memorial we can give here today, and in the vote tomorrow, is to reinforce the fight against anti-semitism and racism, xenophobia and islamophobia. the commission, commissioner frattini in particular, and the council should look at how they can best push forward the welcome framework directive against racism and xenophobia. we need to consider the need for new legislation against race-hate crime and whether action should be taken at a european level to deal with the public display of nazi insignia. we have been told on many occasions of the merits of the european monitoring centre on racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism. perhaps we need to look again at downgrading that monitoring centre by making it a much more general human rights observatory. finally, we should look at how we can educate at european level the younger generation about the horrors of the nazi extermination of the jewish race, about the roma, the mentally ill and the christian democrat and liberal, socialist and communist anti-fascists who died in the concentration camps. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i pay tribute to simone veil, former liberal group leader and president of this parliament. i am glad that it was at the initiative of the eu that the un general assembly this week for the first time commemorated the holocaust. my colleague mr geremek was there representing poland, and, as he said, it was the auschwitz camp built by hitler’s germany in occupied poland that came to symbolise nazi crimes. those who forget their own history are condemned to repeat it; we have an urgent need to confront anti-semitism and racial and religious prejudice 60 years on. we must learn lessons from the holocaust: the way nazism took hold, the insidious appeal of its ideology, the co-option of many apparently respectable people. if we understand the way hitler persuaded 20th-century germans to sign up to his evil doctrines, to scapegoat, despise and dehumanise jews, roma, eastern europeans, homosexuals and others, then we will be better placed to combat those in 21st-century europe who desecrate jewish graves or beat up jewish people, who run roma out of town, who paint graffiti on mosques, or who just resent foreigners or immigrants. we pay homage to all the victims of the holocaust. there is no hierarchy of suffering, but if you permit i will just mention that as well as the genocide of the jews, that of the roma deserves full recognition. it is not to diminish german responsibility to say that nazism was and is a virus – anyone can catch it. the uncle of queen elizabeth ii got a dose of it and her grandson was silly and uninformed enough to wear a fancy-dress costume complete with swastika to a party – apparently he was meant to be rommel. prince harry’s ignorance was shocking; sadly, however, he is far from unique. that is why holocaust education is essential in all school curricula. most young british pupils have never heard of the holocaust. i appreciate the reasons for the ban on the swastika in germany but i am not persuaded that an extension of it across the eu would be effective. it would be far better to revive the stalled discussions on an eu law making incitement to racial and religious hatred a criminal offence. the substance – not the symbols – of racism must be our primary target. the luxembourg justice minister gave a commitment to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs last week that he would restore this matter to the council’s agenda. we will hold him to that. i believe we would have public opinion behind us. in the uk, six out of ten people support such a law. i am glad we have the support of six groups for our resolution. all europeans must be united in eradicating anti-semitism and racism with determination. finally, it would be highly appropriate for the presidency to suggest to all governments that january 27 be made european holocaust memorial day across the whole eu; it is already in some member states, but not all. a written declaration in this parliament five years ago made that suggestion, which is also supported by the world jewish congress. i would ask the presidency to stress that point in meetings with colleagues.
mr president, like many others this evening i welcome this resolution on this extremely important anniversary. as others have said, there is a risk that the memory of the realities of the horrors of what happened in the concentration and extermination camps will start to fade. it is also worth mentioning that later in the year we will also be remembering the effects of nuclear weaponry. it is not just a question of thinking about these events in terms of remembrance or even of education. as the resolution says, we must look at them not simply as historical events, but as a very real and present danger, which i believe they are. when political movements are not just extremist, and not based solely on certainty, but are also based on some feeling of their own superiority or their desire to be superior, that is an extremely dangerous mix for all of us. i, like others, welcome the moves by the commission and the luxembourg presidency to restart the negotiations on the draft framework decision on racism and xenophobia, because this is an issue that needs a political response. i am very pleased that the resolution makes a point about the role of the media having a positive or a negative way of either engendering hatred or explaining difference in a positive way. when we look at the way in which some of the british media, for example, reported the plight of the jews fleeing hitler’s germany and looking for sanctuary in the uk, we hear phrases like ‘we have enough’, ‘other people should be doing more’, ‘we should be sharing the burden’ as i suppose we would put it in modern parlance. a lot of that newspaper coverage was hostile: it vilified the jews, and it actually treated them as sub-human. when we look at the way in which some of those same papers today have portrayed the roma in the run-up to the accession of new member states last year, and their remorseless targeting of asylum seekers, we know that those ideas have not gone away. politicians also have a very clear leadership responsibility to promote understanding and a respect for different religions and races. this does not mean avoiding the difficulties, but if we are serious when we say ‘never again’ to the horrors of the holocaust, we as politicians must stand up for strong anti-discrimination policies and confront racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and faith-based hatred, rather than bending our policies before it. this resolution shows that we believe it is possible to make a positive future and that we in this house have the privilege and the possibility as politicians to help shape that future in a positive, constructive way.
mr president, the 60th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz is a moment of commemoration and reflection. the horror that greeted liberating forces in january 1945 is something that most of us have shared only through film footage and photographs. we cannot truly imagine the nature of the genocide that was perpetrated there and in the other death camps around europe. auschwitz is a stain on humanity and a symbol of evil beyond anything we can comprehend. those of us who have visited it are overwhelmed by its desolation. one can still feel and taste the evil that was carried out there: the gas chambers, the huts crammed with young and old, the railway tracks that bore the death trains, the watchtowers, the crematoria, the pathetic personal remains of those millions who perished so horribly. walking through the gates of auschwitz is truly to walk through the gates of hell. today we stand with jewish people across europe and the world. we think of those who perished, we thank god for those who were liberated and we honour those alive today who survived the horror, including some in my own constituency in yorkshire and the humber. the holocaust must never be allowed to slip from our collective memory. neither, however, can we forget all those who have perished in genocidal atrocities throughout the world since world war ii. rwanda and cambodia are but two examples of modern-day genocide that stir our emotions. discrimination, prejudice and hatred continue to blight our world, and in this week of remembrance let us ensure that the failure of the world to prevent the holocaust and auschwitz serves as a warning to all of us who cherish liberty and freedom that we must never, ever forget.
mr president, as i stand here today i feel that, if i was living around auschwitz 60 years ago, as a gay man i would have been rounded up, sent to the camp and i, probably, would not have survived. what we have to do here today is to separate the people from the groups – from the names we call them – because we are dealing with millions of individuals who died because they posed a threat to some ideology or because they were different. in this house we talk about fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights, yet all around us in the world today racism, xenophobia, homophobia, islamophobia and anti-semitism still exist. therefore, it does not matter what we say today; what matters is what we do. the commission’s proposals will matter. it will matter whether it has the courage to bring forward non-discrimination on all the grounds of article 13, and not just some. to do the latter would be to reinforce a hierarchy of oppression. we must all bear responsibility for what happened in the past – every nation, every country. but the difference is that we are either imprisoned by the past or we become guardians of the future to ensure that such inhumanities never occur again. remember the people with disabilities, the trade unionists, the anti-fascists, the homosexuals and the millions of others mentioned here tonight who died. we must be determined that such a scenario never occurs again. let me finish with what pastor niemöller brilliantly said: ‘when they came for the jews, i was a not a jew, so i did not speak out. when they came for the trade unionists, i was not a trade unionist, so i did not speak out. when they came for the queers, i was not a homosexual, so i did not speak out. when they came for me, there was no one left to speak out’. remember and determine to change the future.
mr president, ‘never forget’ and ‘never again’ are the two historic phrases that we have in mind today as we commemorate, in just a few hours’ time, the anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz. ‘never forget’ was the injunction to us from those remnants of european jewry who survived the murder by the nazis and their accomplices. tomorrow the ceremonies to which i have referred will show that we have not, thank god, forgotten. can we be so sure, however, about the other injunction, ‘never again’? we see today the rising spectre of anti-semitism in our continent and throughout the world. it sometimes takes a different form, but the ultra-nationalist, ultra-right who have always been anti-semitic are sadly still there today in some of our countries: in germany, in russia, in france, and indeed, sadly, i have to accept that we also see it in my own country, britain, which has the most honourable of records in fighting the nazi tyranny and giving refuge to the persecuted. we see a new variant of the anti-semitic virus in islamic fundamentalism – not in islam, as islam has always been a friend to the jewish people. islamic fundamentalism is neither their friend, nor the friend of western civilisation, nor the friend of any of our nations. we must ensure in the years to come that although we can have our differences about middle east – and perhaps we should – those differences should never allow or permit verbal or physical violence against members of the jewish communities of europe. i am here today because, thank god, my forebears left the shores of europe over a century ago to find safety and security in britain. that is why i am here. that memory is why i say that this parliament of europe, of all places, has a historic duty and responsibility to say ‘never forget’ and ‘never again’.
commission. mr president, i should like to underline that only 12 months after its adoption by the commission, we are now about to fulfil the conditions for a second-reading agreement on this important programme. this is rather unusual and that is why i wish to underline it. i wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rübig, and all the members involved in the negotiations who made it possible to find an agreement with the council while preserving the means for a proper functioning of this programme, in particular as far as the budget is concerned. we all know that the availability of content is one of the essential factors for the development of the new information society services. in the digital economy, content covers all types of information, text, images and sounds that can be transmitted by the networks. the econtent plus programme focuses on improving the conditions for innovation, notably in certain sectors of the digital content market. the online environment provides an ideal platform for innovative digital content products and services that transcend national boundaries. that is why this programme has a real european added value. imagine that europe had one digital content market, without barriers imposed or national and organisational boundaries – a market where all consumers would understand all the languages of the union. it is likely that we would see many more maps, for example of trans-european roadways, waterways and other features, on the internet. as the rapporteur has just underlined, we would see large european digital libraries of cultural and scholarly repute. we would see a greater abundance of european digital learning material, which our schools and teachers need. there would be a real cross-fertilisation between cultures and access to each other’s traditions. that is exactly what we want to achieve with the new programme. but we know that much remains to be done in order to overcome existing fragmentation and to allow businesses to develop innovative cross-border digital content products and services. nevertheless, this is one of the rare programmes where smes are very much integrated. when i look at how the programme has been working so far, out of the 600 organisations participating in the funded projects, 241 participants are smes. so this programme is of benefit to those smes that show innovation and want to go in the direction of progress. in this programme we will focus only on those parts of the digital market where there is a clear fragmentation in europe and where market forces alone cannot operate sufficiently well in driving growth. we are, therefore, targeting three domains: spatial or geographical data, educational material and cultural content. we will also give special attention to the linguistic diversity of the european union, because we know that today’s information technologies can be made to work and to overcome the difficulties in combining formats and languages. this takes organisational effort, it takes experimenting at cross-border level, and that is exactly what econtent plus will deal with. it will strengthen the conditions for a flourishing content market for the benefit of business, citizens and culture. that is also why the commission is happy to accept the amendment tabled by the rapporteur.
, on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i too would like to acknowledge what an interesting debate we have had on racism, but first and foremost i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, not only on this report, but also for his endeavours in the negotiations with the council. i am very pleased that parliament has been able to increase the level of funding from the initial eur 135 million offered by the council to what we are looking at now: eur 149 million. it is particularly important that we have managed to secure, as the rapporteur stated, eur 55.6 million before the end of this financial perspective. as the rapporteur for the initial econtent report, i am very encouraged to see this sort of proposal on econtent plus taking shape so quickly. digital content in this era is one of the fastest growing areas. without an equally rapid response from europe we could continue to be left behind and we really have to maximise the opportunities arising in this area in order to challenge some of the dominance that the united states has managed to secure. with ever-rising private ownership, there is a lot more we could do, so i particularly welcome this proposal. there are many opportunities for us to do more given the huge diversity of languages we have with 25 member states. the econtent plus programme should now make a significant impact on all the media, as has been said by the commissioner and others, in terms of books, public sector information and the media in general. but one of the problems we face within the eu is the variety of industries, from textiles to telecommunications, that are fragmenting our national markets. that variety faces us with even more challenges in terms of coordination and ensuring we remain competitive. we need to ensure that we can guarantee safety of information for highway users because that is one of the issues. it impedes various people from using the internet to its fullest and we need to do more to spread this culture of information. we need to do more to expand the eu websites, not just to give all eu citizens access to their representatives, but also to reduce their frustrations.
mr president, as colleagues realise, this resolution largely deals with the results of the very happy election in palestine on 9 january when 28 colleagues observed the elections, chaired by myself and with mrs napoletano as deputy chairman. the resolution we are voting on not only deals with the approval of the election itself, but also the follow-up we expect the various organisations and institutions to take. paragraph 15 is inappropriate in this context. it deals with the internal procedures in the european parliament. i have discussed with mrs napoletano and others the necessity to delete paragraph 15. my invitation to the house is to delete paragraph 15.
mr president, he is speaking on the wrong paragraph. he should be speaking on paragraph 5, indent 2, which is the wording in polish of the auschwitz-birkenau museum. mr sonik has just spoken on recital a, but he is supposed to be speaking on paragraph 5, indent 2.
mr president, could we have some clarity on this subject? there are two separate amendments here. the first – the oral amendment from the ppe-de group that mr sonik moved – is to the change the wordin, which, in english, would now read: ‘a combined total of up to 1.5 million jews, roma, poles, russians and prisoners of various other nationalities and homosexuals’. could we please vote on that first, before we come to the separate issue, that mr schulz has just spoken on, of amendment 1 by the uen group to replace, in english, the phrase ‘hitler’s nazi death camps’ with ‘german nazi death camps’. two separate votes are required here. with respect, the confusion has arisen not least owing to the services, which have put it all on the same line: recital a, oral amendment from the ppe-de group, and the amendment from the uen group, about which mr schulz spoke. could we have two separate votes, please, first on mr sonik’s oral amendment, and second on the uen-schulz-poettering package?
mr president, i can clear up mr cohn-bendit’s confusion. as i understand it, amendment 1, by the uen group, just consists of the words ‘the german’ instead of ‘hitler’s’. amendment 1/rev. was withdrawn because it was not accepted by the services. i think mr cohn-bendit is referring to that – if i may say so, a bunch of men is creating a great deal of confusion here by the failure to attend to detail – amendment 1/rev. was withdrawn and, therefore, the question of deleting words like ‘homosexuals’ is no longer on our agenda. we are dealing with the oral amendment by the ppe-de group and then the amendment by the uen group – which mr schulz seems to be amending again – but not the rest of the revised amendment by the uen group, to which i think mr cohn-bendit is referring.
in writing. i welcome the reasonably fair and free elections of palestine and commend the satisfactory manner the elections were conducted despite the circumstances due to the israeli occupation of palestinian territories. the results of the presidential elections should be seen as an opportunity to re-launch negotiations between the israeli government and the palestinian authorities. i urge israel to fully respect the internationally recognised rights of palestinians and call upon the council and the commission to develop another eu observatory mission in palestine as compliance with the eu-israeli association agreement needs to be enforced, notably protocol iv of the agreement. israel’s infractions of the fourth geneva convention continue to be a grave concern of the international community whereby constructive efforts of quartet members acquiescent with israel and palestine is imperative for furthering the development of a final and comprehensive settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict. the settlement is not only crucial for the territories themselves but also for the promotion of peace and security for the whole of the middle east and arab world.
in writing. it is incredibly important to always accurately remember the atrocities committed at auschwitz, liberated 60 years ago today. collectively we must share the guilt across the eu for all of the suffering inflicted on the victims of the holocaust. the european union as it currently stands is the biggest safeguard we have against a recurrence of such horrors. however, we can always work to strengthen our joint provisions to protect human rights and individuals from discrimination. by remembering the grim past that the european union has grown from it can help guide us in the most appropriate direction for the future.
in writing. it is essential that children should understand the appalling and unique nature of the holocaust, and holocaust education should certainly be included in school curricula. children also need to understand the consequences of regimes based on totalitarian ideologies – the nazi responsibility for the holocaust is clear; the communist regimes in the soviet union and china have also committed mass murder on an enormous scale. parliament’s resolution includes the suggestion that ‘european citizenship’ should be a ‘standard element in school curricula throughout the eu’. i do not accept that the eu has any competence or responsibility to determine the content of the school curriculum in the united kingdom and i reject the idea of any programme of education seeking to advance the false concept of ‘european citizenship’.
mr president, i am sorry that mr borrell is not in the chair. after the barrot affair, i know there is a great desire to stop discussing any difficulties there may be with this commission but, given that i got that one right, i would like to think that mr borrell will take the letter that i hand-delivered to him a couple of weeks ago rather more seriously. there are very grave doubts about the hearing of commissioner kallas, who, as you know, is in charge of the anti-fraud drive within the european union. he gave an incorrect date, there was a mistranslation of a question and, in my view, he gave some very misleading information to this parliament. i have written to mr kallas asking for some correct answers, and mr borrell received a copy of that letter. so, through you, i am asking mr borrell to ensure that we get some correct answers from commissioner kallas, for, if mr borrell does not do that, then this parliament and the whole hearings process will fall further into disrepute.
mr president, this week has seen a very remarkable occurrence: the european union, on one issue at least, finds itself in complete agreement with the uk independence party. how did this come about? earlier this week, mr michael howard, leader of the conservative party, announced policies supposed to halt the flow of uncontrolled asylum seekers into britain. however, eu officials quickly informed him and the british public that this is an area of policy, like so many others, that is now under the control of the european union and not the british government. not that mr howard was being honest anyway: conservative meps in this place voted in favour of turkish entry and are also in favour of bulgarian and romanian entry. the tories pretend to be against unlimited immigration at home, but here they support giving the right of entry into britain to an additional 94 million people. the only way for britain to regain control of its immigration and asylum policy is through the uk independence party’s policy of britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, every professional criminal organisation in europe must have jumped for joy at the european central bank's recent decision to double its printing of 500-euro banknotes. this year alone, 190 million more of the highest-value banknotes in the world will hit our streets, and a suitcase full of these is worth seven times as much as a suitcase filled with 100-dollar bills. in today's electronic world, banks do not need large denomination notes: they are of value only to criminals. why else did 10% of all the euros issued at its launch suddenly disappear into russia? why is it still the currency of choice for the russian mafia? why did hussein invoice iraq's secret oil sales in euros when he was trying to avoid sanctions? last year, the number of counterfeit 500-euro notes rose by ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ever since this parliament voted by an overwhelming majority to endorse the european constitution a month ago, some of those who were in the minority have sought to disrupt and discredit the position taken by the european parliament. they waved banners in this hall when we took our vote; they tried to disrupt the official launch of the european parliament's information campaign; they have made the claim that it is somehow illegitimate for this parliament to present its view and its conclusion to the outside world. even when we have been invited by national parliaments to present our assessment of the constitution, they have written to them and complained that we have accepted such invitations. today, we hear them claiming that the result of the referendum in spain was somehow illegitimate. of course it had a low turnout - it was not controversial and it had overwhelming and broad support. but the bottom line is endorsement by a huge majority, which i am sure will be repeated in other countries. (applause)
mr president, parliament has consistently campaigned against illegal internment in guantanamo bay. most of the eu nationals have now been released - certainly all nine british citizens - but around a dozen people who have legal residence in an eu country, for instance as refugees, are still there. there are five people from the uk whose names we know: bisher al-rawi, jamil al-banna, jamal abdullah, shaker aamer and omar deghayes. reports tell of degrading and inhuman treatment, even torture. omar deghayes claims that he has been blinded in one eye with pepper spray. twenty years ago he came as a refugee from libya, where his father was killed by the gaddafi regime. libyan officials have visited him and threatened him with deportation to libya and death. this was obviously done with the collusion of the us government. in fact, it sent a plane to tripoli to pick them up. it must have been done also with the collusion of the uk government. it cannot be allowed to hide behind the vienna convention. it has a moral and - i contend - legal obligation to intervene and rescue these people or put them on trial. otherwise the pretensions of the eu to have a human rights policy ring hollow.
mr president, referring to the proposed european constitution president bush has said that he is fascinated to see how the sovereignty of nations can be integrated into a larger whole. he can afford to be fascinated: it is not his country's freedoms, liberty and democracy that are being dismantled and abolished in that process of integration. what he does take seriously, however, is article 16 of the constitution that commits member states to a common foreign and security policy. he has rightly warned that this undermines nato - and it is nato that has kept the peace in europe since 1949, not the european union. the british people need to know that the proposed common foreign and security policy will prevent britain from ever again being able to act independently, militarily or politically, whether in alliance with the usa or not. that is one more good reason for the british people to reject the european constitution when they have the opportunity to do so.
mr president, when this parliament last met it quite properly condemned the nazi atrocities epitomised by auschwitz. sadly and shamefully, the head of state of an eu member country – president mcaleese of the republic of ireland – chose that 60th anniversary to launch a vicious and vindictive attack on the majority community in northern ireland when she shamefully equated nazi hatred of jews to the attitude of protestants towards roman catholics. nothing equates to the nazi holocaust. in the name of the peace-loving majority in northern ireland, i take this opportunity in this international forum to refute and reject that vile attack upon those i represent. references to the struggle against fascism fall particularly ill from the lips of a president, one of whose predecessors expressed condolences upon the death of hitler.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, it is bizarre that socialists believe that there can be social progress without economic growth and structural reform. it is also incredibly naive of martin schulz to criticise the president of the commission for playing a part in domestic politics: we are not served by the apatrides – political people divorced from their political roots. my only criticism of the article that i saw in the financial times was president barroso's swipe at 'naive federalists'. i have no idea what he had in mind there. my group welcomes the sharper focus of the work programme and its grounding within a clear political strategy. however, i am also struck by the great size of the programme. clearly, a greater sense of priorities will be required. for my own group, our priority is to complete the single market, especially in the area of financial services. this will require a review and, perhaps, stronger scrutiny of the legacy of the prodi commission than the programme has presently enjoyed, certainly with respect to software patenting, but also access to port services. we place great emphasis not only upon the improvement of the quality of drafting, but also upon reducing somewhat the quantity. i finish with a plea for a focus upon a programme that has begun but is far from finished, especially as regards the financial and trade regulations concerning northern cyprus. we have to bring the turkish cypriots in from the cold.
on behalf of the group.– madam president, i should like to bid mr barroso good evening, but oh dear, oh dear! here we go again! this legislative programme has been shaped largely by the annual policy strategy, which was published by the last commission in february 2004. the european commission is the unelected government of the eu, but what other government anywhere in the world would have its legislative programme set out by its predecessor? the uk independence party has complained before that the commission is unaccountable, but this demonstrates just how undemocratic things are. we will be lumbered with policies framed by people who are not even in office any more! on 26 january mr barroso spoke to parliament in brussels about this programme, but mr prodi and his team put it together. the new commission's central policy objective is economic growth. this was also the central objective of the old commission's document, drawn up last february. indeed, mr prodi made it one of his key objectives when he first came to office in 1999. a fat lot of good it did, as eu growth is lower now than it was then. fortunately for mr prodi, he is safely back in rome and is no longer answerable for his failures. the document states that, due to the institutional changeover in 2004, a lighter procedure than usual was adopted for the european parliament to consider the policy strategy. that procedure was concluded last april – in other words, even before the election of the present european parliament. we all know this is a phoney parliament, but this demonstrates just how pointless it is. europhiles have been complaining that the british people will not be properly informed about the eu constitution. the spaniards have just voted on the constitution, but the fact is that 90% of spaniards – whom the europhiles think were well informed about the constitution – told spain's state polling organisation that they had little or no knowledge of it, and less than half of them bothered to vote. what the citizens of europe should be informed about is not the impenetrable constitution, but the mountain of eu legislation which will pass through the eu's institutions this year – legislation dreamt up by a defunct commission and approved by an expired parliament, both of whom are no longer accountable to the people this programme will affect. however, the citizens of europe – especially those in britain – are waking up to what is going on. soon, not only will the last commission and the last parliament be defunct and expired, but so will the whole eu project – and the sooner the better!
mr president, this programme offers real hope for the revitalisation and refocusing of the lisbon agenda. however, as we approach the spring council next month, it is vital that national governments get a grip and push ahead with the economic reforms that are vital to the future prosperity envisaged in the programme. in recent weeks, i have been impressed by the statements by the president of the commission and his clear aim of putting growth and prosperity at the heart of his strategy for the period ahead. similarly, i am unimpressed by the rantings of socialists, like mr schulz, on refocusing priorities within the lisbon process. the left in europe remain wedded to the old ways of inflexible labour markets, high non-wage labour costs and other barriers to growth. can they not see that it is precisely because of the old social model that europe is today in relative economic decline? can they not understand that the high unemployment in so many parts of europe is caused by the very outmoded proposals that they cling on to in economic terms? nothing mr schulz has just said would help any of the five million presently unemployed in his country. therefore we continue to urge the commission president to keep up the pace on reform, and we urge the governments to take heed of the reasons for the failure of the lisbon agenda in the first five years. we want to see a renewed commitment to the completion of the single market. mr barroso sensibly understands that many remedies for the lack of economic dynamism lie in the hands of member states themselves. however, in addition to the lead he has taken, i would encourage him to put real effort into reducing the legislative output from the commission itself. the commission must be as efficient as it is requiring our businesses and citizens to be. he rightly talks about better regulation, but the priority must be less regulation and, crucially, that legislation must be subject to full impact assessment. british conservative meps have been at the forefront of campaigning for less regulation and enforcing such impact assessments. i look forward to, and am confident that i will see, some progress soon on all these issues in relation to the services directive, which i am so pleased he supports.
president of the commission. mr president, i will try to answer a few specific questions and then i would like to turn to a more general policy issue which i believe is important for our work in the future. as regards the specific questions, first of all, mr duff, you have indicated to me that you did not quite understand or appreciate a remark which is attributed to me concerning naïve federalism. i want to clarify what i said, because in the context it may not have been clear. in fact, when i criticize naïve federalism, it is not federalism per se that i criticize, quite the contrary. i have great respect for all federalists, for the men and women who have been at the origin of our great european project. and i continue to consider the federal method as an essential method for our europe. the community method, or at least the method we usually call it, is a form of federal method. in reality, therefore, i have criticized naive federalism as opposed to what i might consider a more sophisticated, more intelligent federalism, that is to say a conception which does not seek to build our european union, an ever closer union between all europeans, in defiance of the legitimacy of democratic states. we have democratic states, democratic governments and democratic parliaments in our countries. i had the honour of working in geneva with a great federalist like denis de rougemont, who sometimes accused the state of all evils as if it were not also a democratic institution. i am in favour of an ever stronger union, but this strengthening must not threaten the legitimacy of democratic states. that is the nuance i want to bring because i have heard criticism of this remark before which gives a distorted view of my thinking and feeling about europe. the second question concerns security and justice. we have indeed spoken a great deal about the economy, but we must not forget that we have a very ambitious programme on security and justice, which will be implemented by vice-president frattini. this was the subject of one of the questions that was raised. security, justice and the protection of fundamental rights will be a priority for the commission. the citizens' demand for security must be met in a concrete way. that is why, in 2005, we will present to parliament the action plan to implement the strategy adopted in the hague, in the form of proposals on the protection of victims, especially women and children, in the face of organised crime. i would draw your attention to the fact that this is a new dimension of our action in the programme: the emphasis on the protection of children. we believe - and i would like to stress this - that this is an area where action at european level can be stepped up. proposals can be made to strengthen mutual recognition and trust between judicial authorities and a proposal for a european strategy on legal immigration and the fight against trafficking in human beings can be developed. security, justice and the protection of human rights are really a priority, and i would like you to know that the commission will do everything possible to meet these requirements. some of you, including mr karas, mr kirkhope, mr lehne, but also in a certain sense mr goebbels, have raised the question of how to target legislation and whether it should be strengthened or restricted. and i am glad that the european parliament, the commission and the council are fully aware of this concern. when i say 'better legislation', i do not always mean that less legislation is needed. in some cases, precisely because we are a union, we need some harmonisation, more legislation, sometimes even to harmonise or simplify existing legislation. but we have this concern about the quality of legislation, and i should like to stress this, and we have introduced it into our programme. the weighting of the cost, proportionality and subsidiarity factors which we will use for impact assessment purposes will therefore be present throughout our action. that is why, and i answer mr goebbels on this point, we have of course had to draw up a list of our main objectives. this is a programme for this year. i think you would criticize us if i were to list only four or five priorities. the political line is one thing and in this respect we are talking about very clear and well-targeted priorities, defined when we presented the strategic objectives. another thing is the concrete legislative and implementation programme, which you must know in order to monitor our work, since the commission is accountable to this parliament. as regards another concrete issue, namely climate change, i would like to say to you, mrs beer, who i think will certainly put this question to president bush tomorrow, that one of the issues on our agenda is the possibility of cooperation with the americans, also with post-kyoto in mind. this is a delicate subject. we know the positions of the american administration so far, but i think that there is a need to start a dialogue on this issue with the united states of america. i will probably have the opportunity to raise this matter with the president of the united states. i would like to say to mr swoboda that i agree with him on the concern about services of general interest. i have said it many times before: services of general interest, certain public services, are part of what can be called the tradition, the organizational culture of certain states. and so we are trying to avoid calling into question these concerns that we think are legitimate. that is why my commission has taken the initiative to review certain aspects of the services directive, and i was expecting a word of congratulation from you. but that is exactly the opposite of what i hear you say when you call this commission a neoliberal commission, when it was not the commission which introduced the directive in question. we are looking for a balance, while maintaining the objective of having a genuine internal market for services, because it is essential for job creation in europe. this is an objective which we cannot abandon and which was the subject of a consensus until 2010, but it must be pursued with balance. that is the basic political question i would like to put to our friends in the socialist party, and in particular to mr schultz, who asked that question. you have to choose: either you want to oppose the commission or you want to work with it. i have already told you that the commission wishes to work in a spirit of cooperation, of positive complicity with parliament, in particular with all those who really want to move europe forward, which is not a neoliberal proposal. the proposals i have put forward here are the result of a consensus. the commission has christian democrats, socialists and liberals. the lisbon agenda was presented to the commission by myself and vice-president verheugen, who is a member of your political family. the programme i have just presented today was presented by myself and by vice-president wallström, who is a member of your political family. we do not want to be dogmatic. we want to unite europeans who want reforms for europe, but we do not want to abandon reforms. if it was possible for the commission to take all these decisions unanimously - where there could have been a vote, a difference - if christian democrats, socialists, liberals and independents found a consensus, why can we not achieve this here in the european parliament and unite around an ambitious reform programme for our europe, where social and environmental concerns are present? do not present a caricature of our commission, it is not fair. (applause) if you look at the list of our objectives, you will find a series of concrete proposals in the social and environmental fields. we know that today it is impossible to build growth without the environmental dimension. on the contrary, we believe that the environment contributes to growth and to the increase of europe's competitiveness. please don't break down an open door, because we're fine with that. what we want to do is to make it known that the status quo is no longer an option today or that europe is facing serious problems of competitiveness in relation to other regions of the world and that we intend to adapt, to renew our social model by fixing it. that is why the commission has a president who wants reform, but also socialist, liberal, christian democrat and independent members who all want this reform to be carried out in a spirit of balance and proportion. i would therefore ask the socialist party not to put itself in opposition to a commission, but to work with us, to work critically, like all the groups. mrs grossetête, who is a member of the largest political family in the european parliament, has also made some demands and requests, and i thank her for them. i would now like to draw your attention, as europeans like myself, to the fact that we are not living in any particular moment in the history of europe. we heard yesterday the result of the referendum in spain, and we are very happy about that, but we will also have a referendum in france. we'll have a referendum in britain; i spoke to prime minister blair in london today. what do you think the europeans are waiting for now? they want the institutions to work together; they do not understand the nuances of the debate or the politics of the political groups very well. they want to know whether the european commission, the european parliament and the council are working in the same direction, whether they are really concerned about their problems or not. it would be most unfortunate, i think, at a time when very important referendums are taking place, for citizens to look towards europe and see the commission on the one hand and certain important groups, such as the great european family that is your socialist family, on the other, and that the result should be a picture of division! i would like to remind you of the very sincere appeal i have already made to some of you personally. we are not abandoning our ideas, of course, because we all care about them very much, but it is possible, beyond these ideas, to reach a dynamic consensus in favour of the reforms that europe needs. i think it's really possible. (applause) i would like to thank the last question concerns the criticism you have made, mr schultz, of the statement i made about my country. on this point, as you have admitted, i have not breached any obligation because it is clear from the commission's code of conduct that its members may be active members of political parties and trade unions. so there was no violation. i have simply shown my solidarity with the party of which i was president for several years. the political event in my country would have been if i had kept my mouth shut! so i thank you for not framing the question as a personal attack on my position, which was perfectly legitimate. you mentioned the possibility of revising the code of conduct in the interinstitutional agreement. i would like to say that i am absolutely against this idea, because our code of conduct states that members of the commission may participate in an election campaign if they ask the president of the commission for permission to do so. the question you have asked is then: how does the president of the commission do it? i would say that if the president of the commission has the power to refuse or accept the participation of commissioners, he also has the power to do so for himself. this is clearly stated in the treaty, article 217 of which says, i have to read it in english: the members of the commission shall carry out duties devolved upon them by the president under his authority. the treaty therefore clearly establishes the principle of the political direction of the college by the president and the principle of the authority of the president. therefore, to accept, by means of an interinstitutional agreement, a reduction in the president's authority would be contrary to the treaty as it stands, and to weaken the authority of the president of the commission would be to weaken the authority of the commission. we need a strong commission. that is why i think your proposal is not good. i would like to draw the attention of all the political families to the fact that we, the european parliament and the commission, must strengthen each other. we are the european institutions par excellence, we can do extraordinary things together and so we must value each other. i try to highlight the role of the european parliament in all my public statements, not just in my statements. i expect you to do the same because we have great challenges to face together and together, we can overcome them. however, this is not done by reducing the size of the commission, by asking the commissioners to be civil servants, but by asking them to assume their political responsibilities, to claim their citizenship, to express their preferences, while of course working in the european spirit. as a citizen, i have the right to express my views on my country, i have the right, like all european citizens, to vote according to my opinions. as president of the commission, i will not discriminate. in fact, at your request, i have received the leader of the opposition, who will become the prime minister of my country. i received it a few days before the start of the election campaign, because as president of the commission i do not use my office against any government and i do not distinguish between governments of the left and those of the right. i believe that the commission must represent the general european interest. the commission's members are political men and women. some people in this room may not like that. but we have rights as citizens, we have the right to express ourselves, it's a fundamental right. i therefore do not agree with your criticism in this respect. i would like to say that we all need strong european institutions and that institution which is the commission must be strong and must work with a strong parliament, resolutely committed to change and reform with the sense of balance which is at the heart of our europe. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, perhaps i am breaching the working time directive this evening! over the coming years we will do much together that could help shape the world in which we live. this is a unique chance to address a unique phenomenon. managing the impact of globalisation, both at home and across the world, represents an unprecedented challenge. if we get it right, we can offer billions of people a decent chance in life, tackling extreme poverty, fighting disease and hunger, promoting good governance and supporting development and inclusion, with the structures and financial means to bring them about. if we fail, we will sow the seeds of continuing injustice, division and instability. that is why this commission has proposed a programme which is as relevant to europe as it is to our partners around the world. it is designed to spread prosperity, strengthen solidarity and offer security. we must offer an internal and an external response. inside the union, we must boost cohesion and deliver the full potential of our recent and future enlargements. through our social agenda we must continue to fight exclusion and poverty; we must help more people find work in a dynamic and growing economy; and we must change attitudes and behaviour, supporting our goal of sustainable development by taking ambitious action. outside the union, we must pursue the millennium development goals with renewed energy and imagination. creating this fresh momentum is a key goal of our ongoing review of sustainable development, ensuring that our internal and external actions are better coordinated. as europeans, our shared values and experience can be a major force for improving the quality of life of billions of people around the globe. our unique model of cooperation is inspiring regional cooperation, for example the development of the african union. it ensures that our voice is listened to when it comes to reforming international institutions. last week, the kyoto protocol entered into force. kyoto is a good example of our ability to bring a european perspective to helping shape developments at a global level. kyoto and the millennium development goals also highlight the dilemma we face. we must deliver effective action at a global level, but we must also drum up wide support for our proposed action among countries and civil society. that is the new reality of global governance that is taking shape. it is defined as much by our formal gatherings in the wto, the world bank, the g8 as by the more informal settings provided by the world social forum or the world economic forum. that is why i welcome our debate today. both porto alegre and davos stand as symbols of one real benefit of globalisation: our ability to engage in continued dialogue at an international level with regard to the type of society we want. this possibility is giving more people a voice in shaping our future. while such meetings do not necessarily set a political agenda, they act as a sounding board for a broad spectrum of public opinion. let me elaborate on the events in davos and porto alegre. this year, i participated in the event at davos; next year i hope the commission will be able to join the 150 000 people attending the world social forum. fortunately, in davos i was able to talk about porto alegre in detail with president lula of brazil, a good friend of mine. i have great respect for his vision and commitment to making globalisation work and reducing global disparities. our discussions gave me a sense of the mood in porto alegre. one thing which struck me above all else is how the agenda of both gatherings are tending to converge. davos was not a hotbed of neo-liberalism, nor was porto alegre simply an anti-davos demonstration. among other issues, the discussions focused on the fight against poverty, the situation in africa, the role of trade and economic dynamism in spreading prosperity and opportunity, the need for a sustainable path for global development and the challenges of global security. i could draw a number of lessons from what i heard. first, we should not deny that, while the agenda are converging, the two audiences are looking at the issues involved from different angles. nevertheless, the representation of civil society is increasing in the world economic forum, and there is a broadening range of participants in the world social forum. i took two key messages away with me from davos. first, we must act together to solve global problems ranging from poverty and development to climate change. i was proud to see that european leaders such as jacques chirac, tony blair and gerhard schröder were ready to set the pace. they took the initiative to propose some important ideas. second, we need to light the flame of economic dynamism to stimulate reform around the world, not as a goal in itself, but as the best means of offering more people the chance of a decent life. we can turn globalisation into an advantage. european leadership is required to face the challenges arising from globalisation. finally, europe can do a lot, but we can certainly achieve more if we are able to act together with other partners to address global challenges. this is the message that i will pass on to president george bush tomorrow. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, nous devons trouver les moyens de faire fructifier l'engagement des participants au forum économique mondial et au forum social mondial. l'europe doit être un trait d'union entre les perceptions très différentes des conséquences possibles de la mondialisation. à cet égard, je voudrais formuler quelques éléments de réponse. tout d'abord, l'union européenne est, et doit rester, un acteur mondial ambitieux. elle constitue le plus grand marché intégré. son produit intérieur brut est le plus élevé au monde et elle est le premier acteur mondial du commerce international. nous, l'union européenne, sommes le plus grand pourvoyeur d'assistance internationale et comme la tragédie du tsunami l'a montré, nous sommes prêts à faire preuve de solidarité. nous sommes, notamment grâce à l'euro, un partenaire clé en matière de relations financières internationales. nous devons utiliser notre réseau de relations bilatérales pour faire avancer les choses, encourager les changements et promouvoir le respect des droits fondamentaux et des libertés fondamentales. ensuite, si nous reconnaissons que nous sommes un acteur mondial et que nous avons l'ambition de jouer un rôle déterminant, nous devons défendre un multilatéralisme effectif. nous devons continuer à promouvoir le développement d'un ordre mondial fondé sur les règles de droit, mais celles-ci ne doivent pas servir uniquement l'intérêt des pays riches occidentaux. nous devons faire preuve de solidarité. c'est pourquoi nous exprimons notre engagement vis-à-vis des nations unies, notre détermination à rechercher des solutions internationales créatives pour améliorer les perspectives en afrique – je l'ai dit, l'afrique sera notre priorité – et notre volonté de favoriser la conclusion rapide du cycle de développement de doha. enfin, l'union européenne doit mobiliser une large gamme d'instruments politiques destinés à améliorer le sort de nos voisins dans le monde. nous devons tirer le meilleur parti des nouvelles possibilités que la constitution nous offrira grâce à la création du poste de ministre des affaires étrangères et d'un service européen pour l'action extérieure. mais nous devons aussi concentrer notre attention sur les priorités et obtenir des résultats concrets. ces objectifs se refléteront dans les initiatives que nous prendrons, comme la révision des orientations de l'union européenne en matière de développement durable et la préparation de la révision des objectifs du millénaire pour le développement. ils font déjà partie intégrante du partenariat de l'union européenne pour la croissance et l'emploi, que j'ai lancé au début de ce mois. permettez-moi de conclure, monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs. l'union européenne est un acteur mondial. nous devons assumer cette responsabilité, nous devons contribuer activement à la définition du nouvel ordre mondial et renforcer une gouvernance internationale fondée sur l'état de droit. l'europe a une contribution très spécifique à apporter. nous devons renforcer l'union européenne en tant que puissance civile. nous devons assurer la propagation dans le monde des idées de paix et de démocratie et des principes d'économie de marché: les principes des sociétés ouvertes. nous disposons des instruments nécessaires pour faire vraiment la différence. par conséquent, l'union européenne doit répondre aux espoirs que tant nos citoyens que nos partenaires internationaux placent en nous, que ce soit à davos ou à porto allegre.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, earlier we heard an excellent speech from the president of the commission on how we need to work together and cooperate to make europe the most competitive and economically prosperous entity on the globe. we are facing challenges from china, india, brazil and other countries. we have heard a clarion call from the president asking us to throw out the old models and to create new ones in order to compete. in that context i want to say that we agree that the world economic forum was a tremendous success, as global representatives from governments, businesses and civil society managed to agree on a coherent set of principles for action: matching global trade with sustainable development. many of these - such as concrete measures to liberalise trade and accelerate aid to the poorest countries - will be of great benefit in helping to achieve the millennium development goals. i wish to take this opportunity to congratulate all those involved in the world economic forum. at this point, however, and less diplomatically than the president of the commission, i must also make some remarks about the world social forum, which proved to be something of a disappointment by comparison. poverty reduction is the largest of the millennium development goals and, as one main aim of the world social forum's participants, one would have expected the forum to produce some concrete recommendations as to how this might be achieved. yet even journalists who were generally in favour of the world social forum had to admit that its basic objective was not to produce a unified document suggesting concrete ideas for fear of spoiling the diversity of opinions, and that the resulting proposals contain many contradictions. we in the european parliament respect diversity and want to hear the views of world social experts as part of our commitment to achieving the millennium development goals. but, logically, we cannot do both simultaneously - one thing and its opposite. i would, therefore, call for more unified proposals from the world social forum in the hope of achieving those goals more rapidly and without wasting further time. in this regard i was also disappointed that, as the president of the commission said, although we are the largest economy there were very few people from the european parliament in the world economic forum. do the people who are arranging these matters consider that the elected representatives of the people of europe are also important in the decision-making process of the world economic forum?
mr president, the world social forum was originally initiated as a counterpoint to the world economic forum in davos with the intention of trying to force social issues onto the globalisation agenda. at this, its fifth meeting, there are over 150 000 participants from 150 countries and, amongst the hundreds of meetings, representatives of the imf and the world bank face their critics for the first time. these two institutions stand accused of imposing neo-conservative economic fundamentalism on the poorest countries in the world. aid carries with it the poison pill of conditionality that forces the opening of the markets to privatisation of state assets, and the straitjacket of monetarist policies. this approach flies in the face of reality. the challenge to them is to name a country with a weak economy that has opened up and succeeded in developing its economy. the two latest much-lauded success stories are india and china, neither of which has followed their prescriptions. both protected their young, growing industries until they were capable of entering the global market. but even india has its downside. its economy is booming but it is a pity about the poor. in 2003, 11 000 new millionaires were created in india, while 8 million people were unemployed and 50 million lived on less than a dollar a day. what is to be done? in the next ten years 45 million children will die of poverty-related diseases, 12 million aids orphans will be produced in africa, and 100 million children will remain totally illiterate. the world bank claims it is merely carrying out the wishes of the 147 states which own it - a verbal sleight of hand. african countries do not impose conditionality on themselves, nor do the latin-americans. it is the g8 industrialised countries that make decisions, often led by their own self-serving agenda. yet the fact that the imf and the world bank are now ‘talking the talk, but not walking the walk’ suggests that pressure from civic society can have an impact. the world bank is including poverty reduction programmes in its plans, and is expressing concern about countries such as tanzania which spend more on debt servicing than either health or education. china and india can force these issues onto the agenda and the fact that the european union has more votes in the imf than the united states suggests that the world social forum slogan 'another world is possible' is achievable: with sufficient willpower and political commitment. it is for the ngos and civic society to give europe's politicians the necessary backbone.
mr president, i have no difficulty with the sensible exchange of information about criminal convictions between member states, but only the politically blind could fail to recognise the proposals in the costa report as part of the harmonisation process that is under way in the criminal justice system across europe. that, of course, is in anticipation of the eu constitution, within which that harmonisation has a key role to play. i for one am opposed to a criminal justice system established on the continental model, with its inherent assault upon the essential building blocks of our distinctive and historic british common law system, which include not least trial by jury, habeas corpus, and the separation of the judiciary from the investigative process. this costa report, despite its plausible verbiage, is part of that process of harmonisation aimed at creating a single criminal justice system. that is not serving the interests of the british nation in my view and therefore i will oppose that report.
mr president, this is an important report because it emphasises two key areas which have not been emphasised enough previously. mr antónio costa has taken an important step forward in signalling that it is the quality of justice, and not just mutual recognition, which is key. if anyone in this house doubts this issue, they should look at the 'copenhagen criteria'. the quality of justice in many of the accession states and the need for improvements was an essential part of joining the european union. nor should any of the existing 15 member states be complacent that they have all the right answers and the highest quality of justice. look at how we deal with minorities and vulnerable people. that is where this issue will be tested. the quality charter for criminal justice in europe should not be something that member states fear. they should welcome it, because this is one of the most visible areas of cooperation in the european union that our citizens recognise. they see it in the media, they want to see solutions at a european level, they want to feel safe in a european union which delivers swift justice and protection for the innocent.
rapporteur.– mr president, it might seem a little incongruous that we are today, at the beginning of 2005, discussing the european commission's report on competition policy for 2003. that is just because last year was election year, the debate as such is about very much wider issues. it is an opportunity for parliament to place on record, as we should, our enormous respect for the outgoing commissioner, mario monti, who was the competition commissioner at the time of this report. it is inevitable that the report itself and parliament's response draws upon the major programme for the reorganisation of competition policy for which mr monti has received so much praise. this is a debate that had to take place with industry, and not just in relation to the modernisation of the anti-trust rules themselves. industry had to recognise the purpose of this reform. the aim was to do away with a system that was in itself unnecessarily bureaucratic so as to redirect the resources of the commission to cracking down properly on hard-core cartels. in addition, we have seen the reform of the merger regulation, reorganisation of the merger control task force and the first steps in relation to state-aid reform. i know our new commissioner also shares this view in relation to the legacy of mr monti, because only recently she has been speaking at bocconi university and making very similar remarks about mr monti's contribution. it is also inevitable that we would direct our attention not just to this programme of work and the lessons to be learned from it, but also to the way in which that programme of work now affects efforst to improve europe's competitiveness. we are not trying to change the rules about competition policy for the sake of it or as a form of bureaucratic exercise. the purpose here is to act in the interests of consumers to increase europe's competitiveness and develop growth and jobs. that is what the operation of an effective competition policy is all about. i want to say a word about the new commissioner and i hope it does not embarrass her. many people have asked me my opinion about the change we will have now. i suppose up to four weeks ago we were all asking that, to some extent. the commissioner has been very active in the course of the last month. on 3 february she spoke to parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs and set on record her agenda in this role. i have already referred to her speech in milan at mario monti's university, and on 17 february mrs kroes made another speech in paris. taken together, these speeches very clearly set out the progressive agenda that the european commission intends to take forward. i commend the commission for being determined to clarify the rules in relation to state-aid reform. in our report we refer to this as an area where we are seeking further action on the part of the commission. this does not mean a situation in which the commission just sits idly by waiting to see whether somebody is going to make a complaint about uncompetitive behaviour in some part of the economy. we want to ensure that the whole way in which business operates within europe is one that encourages free and fair competition and consequently enhances the competitiveness of europe. finally, a further area for which mr monti deserves special praise is his work in relation to international cooperation. we can cooperate even when we are being competitive. i well remember the reaction of some people in america a few years ago to the ge-honeywell decision that was taken by mr monti. today i had the honour of being present to hear president bush's speech and afterwards seeing him shake the hand of alex schaub, the director-general of competition at the time that decision was made. that is an example of international cooperation. i commend the outgoing commissioner and i look forward to the tenure of the incoming commissioner, commissioner kroes.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, we all recognise that there is a case for promoting competition in the interests of economic efficiency and mrs kroes has promised to continue the work of her predecessor in routing out unfair state aid and cartels wherever she can find them. i want to suggest how she could do much better than this. our rapporteur mr evans notes that the competitiveness of european business is one of the key objectives of the lisbon agenda. unfortunately, too often competitiveness in the eu is too often taken to mean that every nation and every company has to suffer under the same regulatory burden or the same 'level playing field'. this is not really the same as competition. dare i extend mr hökmark's remarks and suggest that if the commission is truly interested in promoting competition it should include regulatory competition. this would be a much richer source of efficiency. give nations some freedom to determine their own agricultural policies and to decide for themselves how they want to ensure their own health and safety. allow nations to set their own rules over everything that is not directly concerned with trade or other matters of common interest. a radical suggestion maybe, but it would allow competition from the more lightly regulated economies to provide the spur for lighter regulation elsewhere and we shall all prosper. for those eu regions that are struggling to converge, relief from over-regulation would surely do much more good than any amount of handouts from the diminishing pool of structural and cohesion funds. mr barroso has made some cautious remarks about easing regulation but i fear it is unlikely to occur. if meaningful deregulation could be achieved then all the sorrow about the failure of the lisbon agenda could be turned to rejoicing as eu economies really begin to move out of the sick bay.
member of the commission. president. - thank you very much for the clear explanation of the report by mrs sofie in the field. the problem that has been raised is extremely important because, particularly now that we are going to look at the review of state aid, how it can be most effectively used, the result is that these very remarks made here are important and therefore cutting edge. i agree with what i said earlier in the debate on the jonathan evans report, namely that we must look at all the possibilities for making it more transparent, more effective and, moreover, less bureaucratic and red tape-free. it is not a good thing, it takes too much time and, as sofie has so eloquently said, it is ultimately a matter for the citizen, a matter for the consumer/taxpayer who wants to know what is happening with his/her money and what the effect is. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the definition of small services of general interest, and whether it is not possible to make a decision on the definition of small services of general interest. what level of state aid do you ultimately have in mind and also take into account? it was also very clearly stated by the lady in the field: it is evidence policy making and we must make it real and we must say that it would not be (and i think that is a good suggestion, which i would like to adopt) to submit a report in a year or four to show what effect it has and whether it really has that effect or that there are perhaps better methods to achieve the goal we want. mr president, when you talk about state aid, at least in the problems we are discussing here, it is not intended to be permanent, it is intended to set in motion a process by means of state aid which will eventually bring it into those situations. to use that famous chinese saying: "you want the fishing rod you give to catch the fish in the end, not just to hand the fish to the person who needs it at the moment". a thorough report, yes, on the experience, whether it works, how it works and whether this is the best methodology. and then we come to the judgment of the altmark case, the judgment that was given by the judge there, and then we come to that fourth criterion. the first three criteria i assume are clear, and the fourth criterion is that we must agree that we can be flexible in all situations. it is clear that where this is possible, we should also follow the four criteria, where it is not possible, we should make the best decision possible under these circumstances and we should therefore also note that we must gain experience and then look at what would be the best methodology. so i would like to follow the rapporteur in this and say that we can indeed gain experience together in this way, put that in a report and four years is a good period to be able to produce meaningful language on that and then hopefully come back to conclusions in a debate. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, my group is committed to open markets with free and fair competition as they will provide the best quality products and services at the best price. they will also best produce the economic benefits that we need if we are to reach the lisbon objectives and if we are to pay for our social and environmental ambitions. another important consideration in our group is subsidiarity: the decision should be taken at a level as close as possible to the citizen, which is compatible with a properly functioning single market. there is no need for europe to step in where a decision is best taken at national or local level. we are therefore pleased that mrs in't veld's excellent report succeeds in accommodating these two priorities. the overall thrust is to call for fair competition in free markets. like her, we would always prefer a transparent tendering process. however, if local authorities, in their wisdom, feel they can do better for their citizens, they can so do without having to notify the commission, as long as they keep within the rules, which ensure that potential competitors are not harmed and, most specifically, that they are small in scale and very local in nature. a clear decision was achieved in committee that gives the commission a strong steer. we are happy with this and we will support this same line tomorrow. we wish mrs in't veld well with her report.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, my group has tabled a number of amendments and requested several separate votes on this report. this has been done to give members the opportunity to ensure that the report clearly favours public service providers, particularly in the fields of health and social housing provision. the report affirms our belief in the importance of high-quality services of general interest that are accessible to all. it also recognises the right of local authorities to self-government. so far, so good. however, recital e contends that 'the internal market, liberalisation and compliance with the rules on competition have on the whole led to improved access to sgis, new services with more choice, better quality and lower costs for consumers'. in our view this is questionable to say the least. the report also asserts that no distinction should be made between public and private enterprises and that all sgis should be put out to tender. the rapporteur seemed to suggest that there was some misunderstanding about this, but that is how it comes across. this would cause problems for in-house services within public bodies such as local housing authorities and health boards. my group cannot accept a lack of clarity on this point. on the contrary, we would support an approach that clearly exempts from the prior notification requirement the kinds of local services that do not affect the development of trade, and do not conflict with the interests of the european union. state-aid rules have frequently led to difficulties and uncertainty for local authorities and other public service providers. we ought to have certainty, and we hope the house votes in favour of that tomorrow.
, on behalf of the group. – mr president, mr goebbels' report is a frank admission of much that is wrong with the european union. he has recognised that high economic growth is necessary to achieve low unemployment, to pay pensions and to achieve what is here called 'social cohesion' or 'social protection'. so why is growth so poor? several speakers have blamed the stability and growth pact. some say it is being interpreted too strictly and that governments are not spending enough. others say the opposite, that we must stick to the pact more tightly. they cannot both be right. i suggest that both sides are missing the point. mr goebbels says we will raise growth by promoting competition, enterprise, entrepreneurship, initiative, and risk-taking, particularly among small- and medium-sized enterprises. let me analyse this. i agree that small businesses are important; large multinationals have all the influence, but create jobs outside the eu. however, i do not believe there is a shortage of small business opportunities, investment capital, or entrepreneurs who would be prepared to take risks in setting up businesses and taking on employees. so why is this not happening? and why, when it does happen, do so many fail? it is because we have gone out of our way to make it hard for them. go and talk to small businessmen. you will hear the same story repeated everywhere: too much red tape and too many rules, particularly those connected with employing people. these difficulties occur because the whole spirit of the eu is to use centralised direction in a vain attempt to achieve an idealised society by making laws and restricting activity. examples of this include the working time directive and the large numbers of rules introduced to uphold various rights, each of which has the major effects of crushing enterprise and enriching lawyers. the whole ethos is biased against the employer. we all want high employment and to live in a compassionate, cohesive society. however, this is only possible when we have wealth. in trying to achieve our ideals by means of coercion, we kill off the source of our wealth. the whole model is in drastic need of revision. my colleagues in the other british political parties still cling to the idea that they will be able to persuade the european union to change its ways. in the uk independence party we have recognised that this will not be possible. the only way to preserve some prosperity in britain is to leave the eu. we want our eu neighbours to prosper too, but when they fail to do so because of blind adherence to a flawed model we would prefer not to be dragged down with them.
the next item is the vote. recommendation (a6-0030/2005) by the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision on the position of the european community in relation to the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on the uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the location and identification of hand controls, tell-tales and indicators (rapporteur: enrique barón crespo) (parliament adopted the text) recommendation (a6-0028/2005) by the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision on the position of the european community in relation to the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe with regard to the type-approval of a heating system and of a vehicle with regard to its heating system (rapporteur: enrique barón crespo) (parliament adopted the text) recommendation (a6-0009/2005) by the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the additional protocol to the europe agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and romania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union (rapporteur: elmar brok) (parliament adopted the text) recommendation (a6-0010/2005) by the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the additional protocol to the europe agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of bulgaria, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia, and the slovak republic to the european union (rapporteur: elmar brok) (parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0018/2005) by nikolaos sifunakis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the community and the swiss confederation in the audiovisual field, establishing the terms and conditions for the participation of the swiss confederation in the media plus and media training community programmes, and a final act(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0006/2005) by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of koldo gorostiaga(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0023/2005) by margarita starkevičiūtė, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1165/98 concerning short-term statistics before the vote:
mr president, to add to what ms in 't veld said, that amendment 20 should have added at the end: 'or by way of an official act that, depending upon the legislation in the member states, may take the form of one or more legislative or regulatory act or a contract'. that is part of the arrangement that ms in 't veld is referring to. following on from that are oral amendments to modifications 10 and 17 and recital q. (parliament accepted the oral amendment)
we will take that oral amendment before we start voting on that section. colleagues, i am aware that this is a very sensitive report and that it is a pre-consultation offered by the commission. it is only fitting that we take time to get it right.
in fact, it was the rapporteur's oral amendment that there were no objections to. we will get to that when we come to amendment 19.
mr president, i hope i can help you. i agree with mr savary that it should be applied to those four amendments, but i also agree with mrs in't veld that wherever else in the report there are inconsistencies as a result of passing those amendments, then appropriate adjustments should be made by sessional services. if that is acceptable then we can go ahead.
mr savary, i can assure you that appropriate adjustments will be made. i will indicate when the oral amendment applies. i now propose to put the oral amendment to the vote. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
if the amendment was adopted in committee and there were no amendments to it, then it is in the text. i can only ask the services to check this.
we have to stand by the decision of the house, which was to not accept the oral amendment. i apologise to mr klinz if there was a fault on the part of the secretariat, but mrs berès is absolutely right that the position was clear in committee.
in writing. i voted for this report because it makes important steps forward in addressing a key issue deemed important by eu citizens, namely the need for some monitoring of the quality of criminal justice as it is implemented in member states. this in no way imposes changes on the way each member state conducts its criminal justice system. it does, however, take a step forward in ensuring that important matters such as the effective dealing with criminal gangs, or the way eu citizens may serve their sentence in their own member state, can be progressed. eu citizens expect some degree of mutual trust between member states and a view on the quality of criminal justice, particularly in relation to some new member states working to improve their criminal justice systems.
in writing. although some very good ideas were expressed, it was particularly important for the european parliamentary labour party that the impact on social housing and health services was taken into account. this is why it was very important for the purvis compromises to be included in the various articles mentioned during the vote.
that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.15 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
on behalf of the group. – (the speaker spoke irish) natura 2000 is an important step in protecting and developing biodiversity in the nature reserves of the european union. the policy must be guaranteed by mainstreaming natura 2000 and integrating it into the main eu funding programmes. the financing regulations for these programmes need to reflect this integrated approach. regulations for the 2007-2013 financial perspective now need to be strengthened for the integrated approach to work. (the speaker spoke irish)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, is there anything the eu does not seek to control? are there any issues at which most members of the european parliament will not try to throw taxpayers' money? sadly, it seems not. not content with single legal frameworks, tax harmonisation and the rest, the eu apparently wants to control nature. that is patently stupid. the habitats directive of 1992, which established natura 2000, states the eu's intention to define a common framework for the conservation of wild plants and animals. in the bold new europe, even nature has to be standardised. wiser counsels know this is impossible. when man seeks to play god, nature has an uncomfortable habit of reasserting itself. as a member of the ind/dem group, which has danish and english co-chairmen, i am reminded of the story of king canute: tired of the flattery of his courtiers who told him he could control anything and everything, he took them to the beach and commanded the sea to turn back. the waves, of course, continued to lap at their feet and the king had proved his point. it strikes me that canute had more sense than europe's rulers have today. if the eu is not power crazy and really is just an economic bloc, perhaps someone could tell me why it is necessary, for example, to list and protect all species of bat? has anybody asked the bats? no, of course not. once again, i can only conclude that if the eu is the answer, it must have been a silly question. you could even call it batty!
mr president, i support the concept of integrating care for the environment into other policies such as the structural funds, agricultural funds and so on. however, anyone who cares for the environment knows that the member states cannot necessarily be trusted to make integration work. we have heard much about that this afternoon. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the following point: some states have been very slow to designate natura 2000 sites at all. four countries – the netherlands, france, italy and finland – have court judgments against them for inadequate designation of special protection areas for birds. only one country in the eu – the netherlands – has completed its designation of special areas for conservation. these sites make up the natura 2000 list, so how can we possibly be happy to leave the financing to member states when they cannot be trusted to nominate the sites? it is a triumph of hope over experience to suppose that member states will provide adequate funding for natura 2000, unless the incentives of specific co-financing for it are on offer via the eu budget. if and when mr dimas replies to the debate, i would like to ask him to give us some up-to-date news on exactly how natura 2000 is progressing. are a number of member states still not in contact with the commission on the designation of sites, or is the network now complete? second, those who want eu funding for all the natura 2000 sites have to guard against overbidding. we need the assurance that care will be integrated into natura 2000 via the structural funds. we also need funding via the annual bidding process for the special needs of certain natura 2000 sites, possibly through the establishment of a biodiversity programme within the life+ programme. the commission has never liked the life programme. it involves very few officials doing a lot of very hard work trying to track down what is happening to very small amounts of money. there is no doubt that it would be administratively convenient for the commission completely to wind up the life programme in toto. but it would be wrong to do this, commissioner. you might say that what you are trying to do is effective, but my colleagues and i believe it is wrong.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you very much for that constructive debate. the commission is fully aware of the importance of securing adequate community cofinancing for natura 2000, for which the lists have been approved for five of the six regions, with few gaps in the lists. all the new member states have submitted their lists. the integration approach as proposed is consistent with the intention of article 8 of the habitats directive, which calls for cofinancing from existing funds. it also builds on existing practice, which is that the rural development and structural funds are already the most important sources of community funding for the network. it is estimated that eur 500 million is spent each year from rural development funds in support of agri-environment measures for natura 2000 sites. the commission has taken note of the concerns with regard to the great limitations of the rural development and structural funds. in response to this, the latest proposals recognise the need to expand the funding opportunities for natura 2000 compared with the existing situation. in both the rural development and structural fund regulations, funding for natura 2000 is made more explicit and its scope extended. of particular significance is the extension of funding for forestry areas in the new rural development regulation. the importance of this cannot be underestimated since forestry areas represent 30% of the natura 2000 network. the commission will ensure that the integration of natura 2000 into existing funds is made more effective by including it as a priority in the strategic guidelines that will be issued to member states when they commence the preparation of their structural fund programmes. in its negotiations with the member states on the content of these programmes, the commission will seek to ensure that the allocations for natura 2000 match this declared community priority. the commission will also have to approve the national and operational programmes presented to it. in respect to the proposal for life+, i wish to stress that it is intended to continue to support natura 2000. the member states have the flexibility to set their own priorities and decide the amounts provided for natura 2000. it may, therefore, be the case that natura 2000 will attract a far higher percentage of the life resources than is presently the case. designating a precise amount for natura 2000 in life+ also risks giving the impression that it would be a dedicated fund capable of covering all the needs of the network. our proposal is in line with the general principle of integration and simplification of all the other commission proposals in the context of the financial perspectives. there are now ongoing discussions in the council and in parliament on the commission draft regulation for life+. if the european parliament makes a proposal for an amendment during the legislative process, i will of course be prepared to examine it seriously. in conclusion, the commission proposals, without offering explicit guarantees, are still able to cover the financial needs for the natura 2000 network. i encourage you, therefore, to give your support to the various commission proposals currently before parliament. i welcome your interest in natura 2000 and look forward to working with parliament to ensure its effective implementation as a current central pillar of community biodiversity policy. thank you very much for your attention.
madam president, this is a debate, or it should be. if we are simply going to read speeches to each other, we might as well exchange our views by post. i asked commissioner dimas one question: is the natura network of sites complete, or is the commission still taking member states to court for failing to designate those sites? there is no point in us talking about funding for sites if the commission does not know what the sites are.
member of the commission. madam president, i shall repeat what i said before: lists have been approved for five out of six regions, with few gaps in the list. all the new member states have submitted their lists.
on behalf of the group. – (the speaker spoke irish) i would like to congratulate mrs ries on her report. the recognition that health is interconnected with our physical and social environment must become a consistent aspect of mainstream policy and debate. mrs ries is correct in her criticism of the significant gap that exists between the commission's initial health and environment strategy and this action plan. the gap can be seen in the small number of concrete actions proposed. we also need to look at the success stories in ireland and elsewhere in relation to the smoking ban in workplaces. there has been an 18% drop in cigarette consumption in ireland and many who opposed a complete ban on tobacco smoke in workplaces now accept it as normal. we need to move beyond the notion that health is simply a lifestyle choice and the action plan fails to do this. for the most disadvantaged in our society to be empowered to break free from ill health and poverty, we need defined and concerted action by member states and the commission. such action must also be adequately resourced. more action is needed in working with health professionals and ngos to empower communities to play an active part in building a better environment; we need more action on the protection of children, the elderly and other vulnerable groups, from hazardous environments and products; we need more action on removing hazardous chemicals from the market; and we need adequate labelling on the environmental and health implications of products and materials. it is also vital that we have recourse to the precautionary principle because of the possible serious risks to health if we fail to act. i wholeheartedly agree with mrs ries and her assertion that in order to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of the action plan, it is necessary to establish adequate funding now for the 2004-2007 period. i would like to thank her for her work and commend her report to parliament.
madam president, if the germans have a problem with their driving licences, what is to stop the german government from sorting it out? equally, if we are talking about road safety, what is to stop the portuguese and italian governments from improving road safety on their roads? we in the uk have some of the most crowded and some of the safest roads anywhere in western europe. yet we are now faced with the prospect of harmonising driving licences, and this report makes clear that harmonising penalties for driving offences cannot be far behind. when you look at the disgraceful treatment of legitimate tourists in greece on a plane-spotting holiday, we now know just what pan-european union justice can mean! that affected only a few unfortunate individuals, but almost everyone in britain drives a car. if national courts are given powers to impose penalties on drivers' licences issued in other countries, the prospect of a greek court banning, or attempting to ban, a british driver from driving in britain will cause a row the like of which even you have not yet experienced from britain!
member of the commission. eu citizens and businesses must have confidence in the eu's legal framework if they are to maintain a positive view of the community. the free movement provisions of the treaty are fundamental to the eu and are amongst the major benefits of eu membership. accordingly, the commission places the highest priority on maintaining the integrity of the internal market and carefully investigates all complaints in exactly the same way, irrespective of where they come from or which member state they concern. the commission is aware of the fact that some member states have adopted national measures that do not conform with the transitional provisions relating to the free movement of workers under the accession treaty. the commission is looking into these matters and will contact the member states concerned in accordance with its role as guardian of the treaties.
in the light of the question from our polish colleague, i would like to ask commissioner mccreevy whether he would agree with me that this is exactly the sort of problem that will be fully addressed by the proposal for a directive on the internal market for services. perhaps he could take the opportunity to confirm something i read in an independent report this week: this directive will apparently reduce prices, raise output across the european union, create 600 000 new jobs and increase the trade in services. will the commissioner therefore finally confirm his unequivocal support for this directive and his willingness to work with us in parliament for its speedy and smooth transition?
the commission's vice-president of course, that is the whole point of transeuropean projects, it is a corridor. it is clear that the reason i am proposing to the commission that a coordinator be appointed is precisely to see how all the sections concerned along the corridor will be dealt with gradually.
the commission's vice-president i would first like to say to mr john purvis that we are of course attentive to all these problems of road accidents and that all these problems - as we have seen earlier in the course of the examination of the report on driving licences - are very important. however, neither the commission nor the member state which is probably most concerned, the united kingdom, has any statistics which can directly prove a risk associated with driving on the left or right. in general, the number of accidents involving mainland drivers in the uk and vice versa is too limited to allow statistical lessons to be drawn and conclusions to be drawn. that 's what i can tell mr. purvis .
mr commissioner, you may not have the statistics but i certainly see in my newspapers in my constituency of scotland all too often that our tourist guests are killed and injured on our roads in scotland, and most particularly on roads that convert regularly from two-lane to four-lane and back to two-lane. could not the commissioner institute the gathering of statistics on this to see whether something should be done about it – possibly to encourage the member state concerned to ensure that as many as possible of our main trunk routes are four-lane – for example, the perth-to-inverness trunk route? i should also like to know whether there is any plan to consider harmonising the side of the road on which we are to drive in europe.
the commission's vice-president it is a question of designing rules for the road as well, much as we have done for the air and railways, rules which apply along the main routes. we shall demand that the same rules apply to the transeuropean networks as far as possible. and you know that in this area we are dealing with the problems of the third package of measures on justice and home affairs. that is the whole problem of sanctions; that is the whole problem of controls and infringements. it is clear that all this requires harmonization today, which will no doubt be a little difficult to achieve, but which is necessary. and in any case, as far as the transeuropean networks are concerned, we are very firm in our efforts to achieve this improvement. before the end of 2005, we intend to present a proposal for a directive on better safety, greater safety in the transeuropean transport networks.
the commission's vice-president i thank mr howitt for his question. thank you, mr howitt, because it allows me to reiterate the importance the commission attaches to ensuring that people with reduced mobility can count on fair treatment by ensuring that they have appropriate assistance to travel with confidence throughout the european union. only three months after taking office as vice-president of the committee on transport, i submitted to the college a regulation which gives real and tangible rights to people with reduced mobility travelling by air. this is to ensure their fair treatment by preventing carriers or tour operators from refusing transport on the grounds of reduced mobility, except for justified safety reasons. the proposal for a regulation requires airport managers to provide the necessary assistance free of charge at airports and carriers to provide the necessary assistance on board aircraft, also free of charge. the regulation would apply to departures, arrivals and transits at airports in the member states. of course, mr howitt, i am counting heavily on the support of parliament and i am confident that you and the council will work diligently on this dossier to enable it to be adopted quickly. i have been able to see, through my contacts with disabled people's associations, the hope that this regulation, which sets out a policy of non-discrimination against disabled people, gives rise to. i can tell you that this concern will remain essential to me, as i am convinced that it is a european ideal for us to want to guarantee accessibility and mobility for all. that is what i wanted to say, mr president. you are right, there has been a little delay, but today we are in the middle of the action and we must now move forward with determination.
commissioner, you can count on my support, and, i hope, that of parliament. we criticise the commission when we need to, but you have put forward an excellent regulation and i hope it will be passed swiftly. i hope you will be pleased to hear that one low-cost operator, easyjet, which serves luton airport in my constituency, has said that prices need not go up because of this draft regulation. that comment removes some of the scare stories about the regulation. could the commissioner answer one question which was put to me: why, if this is right for air travel, should it not apply to other modes of transport?
member of the commission. i understand your great interest in this very specific area because it is so important to keep rural areas populated. i have listened to your proposal. for the time being it is not in the recommendation and i think it would be difficult to include it. i understand that you would regulate based on the steepness of the mountains. i think regulation in this way would be extremely difficult and would encounter many problems in the court of auditors, because definition of these mountain areas would be open to interpretation.
member of the commission. the common organisation of markets in the sugar sector fixes sugar production quotas by community region. the authorities of the member states allocate these quotas to their sugar-producing undertakings. it is for each undertaking to decide and organise its production between one or more processing plants according to its own criteria. the fact that an undertaking closes one of its factories and concentrates its production in only one processing plant – as is the case in ireland – does not modify its quota or decrease its total production. irish farmers will therefore be able to continue producing the same quantities of sugar beet as before the closure. concentration and rationalisation of production is a common feature of industrial restructuring and, for sugar, reflects the trend over the last ten years, where the number of factories almost halved within the eu of 15. the quota transfer across member states was presented by the commission's communication on the sugar reform in july 2004 to increase the competitiveness of the european sugar sector. it would allow the more competitive undertakings to acquire the quotas of those undertakings that decide to close after the reform, and thus to adjust to the lower price in the market. the inefficient producers would be able to sell the quotas and thereby reap some of the value of the quotas. if nobody is interested in buying the quotas in the same member state or other member states, the undertaking can apply for conversion aid, which should help to cover the costs of restoring good environmental conditions for the factory site and of redeploying the labour force. discussions in the council and parliament show very strong concern on the part of a number of member states and stakeholders with regard to the possibility of trans-national quota transfer. in this connection, the commission needs to underline that the competitiveness of the european sugar industry has to be increased in order to ensure a sustainable, long-term basis for sugar production within the european union. transferring quotas between member states is one way of ensuring this. alternative and complementary solutions are not to be ruled out and are also being analysed.
member of the commission. concerning the question of the transfer of quotas, at this stage we are discussing a new sugar reform. it is, therefore, much too early to start this discussion in parliament. we will have many opportunities later on to discuss in detail the different tools in the sugar proposal. it is obviously not possible for me to give you the guarantee that you want today. on your other question concerning bio-ethanol, yesterday i decided to form a core group to discuss the possibilities of growing renewable energy crops in european fields. it is an interesting area and we need to dig deeper into the substance of the matter to see what the possibilities for them are. thank you for your advice in this important area.
member of the commission. thank you for the question. the reason why we are now talking about sugar is that we have been making progress and undertaking reforms in many different sectors of agriculture, but sugar has been untouched for the last 40 years. therefore, we must reform the sugar industry. we must do so also because we are now granting access to the eu market to the 49 poorest countries in the world through the 'everything but arms' agreement. from 2006 to 2009, these countries will have progressive access to the european market at a price higher than the world market price. in that way they will have a special chance to escape from poverty. this is also an element of our proposal on sugar.
member of the commission. we are now leaving the original question on sugar production in ireland. however, i would like to give you ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
member of the commission. i will not enter into a deep technical discussion on the sugar proposal. i will just say that i am very much aware of the different opinions on this matter. i can assure you that i am listening to all stakeholders at this stage. there are different opinions on how far and how fast we are moving with the new sugar proposal. however, i am happy to say that all members of the council, and the members of the european parliament, realise that something has to happen with regard to sugar. if we sit on our hands and do nothing, we will spoil the opportunity for european sugar production to be competitive in the future, and that is not the way to go.
member of the commission. first of all, i would like to say that i fully agree with the honourable member that forestry is of vital socioeconomic and environmental importance in the european union, especially in rural areas. the commission has just completed an analysis of the measures implemented under the european forestry strategy over the last five years and we will shortly be presenting the results of this analysis to both the european parliament and the council. the study has been carried out in close cooperation with the relevant stakeholders and member states and opinions have been obtained, inter alia, through an internet-based consultation. in my view, the council resolution of 15 december on a european forestry strategy provides an appropriate basis for forestry-related measures and initiatives in the eu. as regards the damage caused by the recent storm, which also caused great damage in other northern european countries, i would also like to express my sincere sympathy to those affected by this disaster. we are prepared to examine as soon as possible what we can do to remedy the consequences. there are various possibilities for providing support under eu law. the community civil protection coordinated response system in the event of a disaster can both facilitate and coordinate assistance to other member states at the request of a disaster-stricken country. on 1 february, the swedish authorities also asked for assistance from other member states in the form of electricity generators for use in the worst affected parts of the country and it was indeed possible to comply with the request within a time frame of less than two days and both germany and the czech republic actually sent 170 generators to sweden. assistance may also be provided from the eu solidarity fund, which contributes to the initial emergency response. support from the structural funds may be granted under the existing programmes and, if production potential has been damaged in both agriculture and forestry, support may also be granted for the re-establishment and introduction of preventive measures within the framework of the possibilities of rural policy. i can say that my department is already in contact with the swedish authorities and is very open to the possibility of examining whether the proposals put forward by the swedish authorities can be put into practice. if the swedish authorities wish to apply for support from the solidarity fund, i would recommend that they contact my colleague, danuta hübner, who is responsible for the specific area.
i look forward to receiving the report the commissioner talked about on the development of our forestries. in the meantime, can she give us an assurance that the single farm payments that are going to come about as a result of decoupling, and which we know will have an environmental element, will have a strong tree-planting element as well? will she ensure that these payments are used to encourage farmers to continue to plant trees – and a variety of trees, not just one species? this does not solve the forestry problem, but it would increase the number of trees across the european union and bring the environmental benefits to which she has referred.
mr president, i welcome the proposals on driving licences because they represent a huge advance in combating fraud, improving road safety and, most importantly, providing legal certainty for the free movement of people. i especially welcome proposals for higher standards for driving examiners. i did not like the commission's original proposals because i thought they were too bureaucratic and too complex. they would have done unnecessary damage to certain groups such as caravanners, so i congratulate the rapporteur on producing a simpler and more practical proposal. however, we still need to look further into the question of motorcycles, where national practices and problems vary so much in the member states. in the uk, our problem is not so much young motorcyclists, but middle aged men – like me – having a mid-life crisis, buying a very powerful motorcycle and then killing themselves. we do not have major problems with young motorcyclists because of our requirements for testing, particularly for the moped test. other countries have different problems relating to motorcycles and mopeds, so i will argue that the proposal made by the commission and parliament for a 'one size fits all' solution will not work. that is why, in conjunction with some of my colleagues in the pse group, i have brought forward amendments which will allow for a two-track approach that will respect the principles of progressive access. on one track there will be a practical test for mopeds and then two further stages of progressive access. the other track will have no requirement for practical tests for mopeds, but then three stages of progressive access to the most powerful motorcycles. in both cases, with regard to decisions on direct access to larger machines, it should be at the discretion of member states to adopt a minimum age anywhere between 21 and 27. i would hope that we can resolve this problem of motorcycles during the vote.
mr president, i also wish to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for his interesting remarks. this is, as others have said, an important piece of legislation for maritime safety and for forcing ships to act responsibly. as mr piecyk, mr ortuondo larrea, mr papadimoulis and others have said, most oil pollution does not come from the disasters which get the headlines, but from deliberate discharges. it is vital that we combat these illegal acts together in a vigorous way, and this compromise is a positive step forward. cooperation on european issues to counter criminality or carelessness is important and i yield to no one in my determination to do all that we can to prevent pollution and protect the environment. we will also achieve far more if we work together as a european union rather than as individual countries. therefore, as mr blokland has said, we will await the feasibility study on the issue of a european coastguard with great interest. at present, as i understand it, the functions of national coastguards vary considerably from country to country. some are concerned with border protection and countering illegal immigration; others to counter pollution along the lines we have described. in some countries their responsibilities include search-and-rescue operations, which might be the responsibility of the military in others. from the uk's point of view, its coastguard functions include search-and-rescue and its borderline of responsibility, the zone, abuts those of the united states and canada. therefore the area of responsibility for uk coastguards is somewhat larger than that of some of the other countries. i therefore look forward to this feasibility study with interest. we can reflect on this after the report has been adopted tomorrow and then move forward.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– mr president, on behalf of my committee i would like to indicate support for the general aims of this proposal on river information services. i shall offer the insights gained from my own experience as an amateur rowing man and yachtsman to bear witness to the importance of information for safe and successful navigation. our committee was concerned about two aspects. i am grateful that the commissioner has already mentioned one of these: our concern about the interests of smes and the impact this measure will have on them. regulation and legislation always weighs more heavily on small businesses than on large organisations. i am grateful for the references to this in the main body of the report. the second point we make concerns the general issue of comitology and the advisory committee that is proposed. it is very important that all those involved should be able to make some contribution to this advisory committee. this is a matter we have addressed in other reports on other topics in our committee and i particularly welcome the rapporteur's amendment 29, which calls on the commission to consult representatives of the sector regularly. smes and consulting are very important.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing shortage of community seamen in some member states today is threatening to weaken maritime know-how. the training of seafarers is of particular importance for the prevention of maritime accidents. we must be given the means to develop the community seafarer's profession by facilitating the free movement of seafarers within the union and by encouraging the excellence and quality of their training. the proposal before you addresses these two concerns by introducing recognition at union level of seafarers' certificates issued by a member state. the commission intends to pursue three objectives with this proposal. first, a prompt and effective procedure for the recognition by the member states of seafarers' certificates issued within the union: the proposed system puts an end to the slowness of the current recognition system. secondly, compliance with community requirements for training, certification and watchkeeping: the proposal provides for absolute and constant compliance with all existing training and certification standards. thus, with the assistance of the maritime safety agency, the commission will undertake regular audits of national maritime training and certification systems. thirdly, the fight against fraudulent practices in connection with the granting of patents: additional measures are also provided for to prevent and combat fraudulent practices in the process of obtaining or granting a patent. as you know, the transport council reached a general approach to this proposal last december. i welcome the constructive contribution of parliament on this matter. i hope that it will support the rapid adoption of this important text, which will make it possible to grant patents easily to seamen coming from another member state of the union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your attention and i hope that we can send this very strong signal to our fellow citizens to show them that the seafarer's profession remains, in the european union, a particularly interesting profession and one worthy of being practised by the younger generation of europeans.
rapporteur.– mr president, my report amends the current legislation on the recognition of seafarers' certificates, making the legislation more appropriate and ironing out the anomalies that currently exist. i had a number of meetings about the report with the commission, the netherlands and luxembourg presidencies, parliament's secretariat, the united kingdom government and my colleagues, and i am grateful to everyone for their contributions. i can confirm that the council has given me an understanding, in accordance with article 251 of the treaty, that if we vote according to plan tomorrow, we can adopt this without further ado. the starting point of this legislation is safety. the safety and security of seafarers is important not just for those involved in the industry, but also for consumers, whether they are travellers on ships or buy the products of the sea. as the commissioner said, the maritime industry is in general decline. going to sea is no longer the attractive career that it might have been. the decline of the shipping and fishing industries means that wages are usually low and opportunities are few. against this there will still always be a demand for travel by sea, both for industry and passengers. in spite of diminishing fish stocks in the waters, there will always be a demand for fish. therefore the industry will always need workers. however, as mr barrot has said, there is a shortage of workers at the moment. as countries and companies strive to balance supply and demand with regard to ship crews, the role of the european union becomes more important. we need to provide for a common european system of freedom of movement. the current lack of availability of local staff means there is a vacuum which, as in other industries, will be filled by migrant labour. these workers need protection and standards that are equal to those enjoyed by existing workers. my report is a timely measure, updating the existing european directive that dates from 2001. it aims to reduce the current administrative burden, combat discrimination and promote the mobility of workers in the maritime sector. european rules should, as far as possible, be in line with existing international agreements. in this case, the standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers convention gets rid of european red tape. this has been an important point and one that the trialogue has shared as a joint objective, which is how we have been able to reach this informal agreement before the debate. the training and certification requirements for seafarers are laid down by the international maritime organization, which also contains agreements on the recognition of certificates. at the moment, the system of recognition for certificates from third countries has been simplified, which leads to a rather unsatisfactory situation in which it is easier and simpler to get recognition for certificates from outside the european union than it is to get recognition for certificates from within the european union. this is discriminatory, restricts the free movement of seafarers and is an anomaly which needs to be removed, especially as we are dealing with a diminishing number of workers. i would like to stress, however, that the mere possession of a certificate of any sort does not in itself give a guarantee of employment, no more than a driving licence gives you the right to a job as a driver. on language proficiency, which has been a thorny issue, we have agreed that a satisfactory command of language is necessary. in this case, english is the language involved. this will also apply to workers from third countries who might be affected by accidents if no provision for language proficiency was established. the prevention of fraud is a very important issue. all 25 member states will be required to pursue their efforts in the context of the imo towards the worldwide combating of fraud so as to ensure that safety standards are as high as possible. it is beholden on all of us to get our own fleets and regulatory processes in order, to ensure high standards throughout the imo. finally, my report states that the commission should prepare an evaluation report after five years. we heard in an earlier report of shipwrecks off the european coast, and the european parliament has repeatedly put safety at the top of its agenda. we will be setting high standards on safety, high standards for workers and for certification. i am sure my colleagues will be able to support this report in the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member for her report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy. the commission views the establishment of the agency as a crucial element in the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy. you will recall that the creation of this agency is a clear signal that more uniform and effective enforcement of the rules is a priority for the reformed common fisheries policy. we believe that a well-functioning agency will be critical not only in enhancing the control capacity of member states but also in further committing ourselves to combating illegal fishing. in addition, it is our firm belief that, as our control capabilities are enhanced, so too is the reliability of the data that is available to scientists, thus contributing to sounder scientific advice on which to base our policy for sustainable fisheries. it is for this reason that the commission is committed to an effective and reliable agency. on an operational level, we see the agency as a means of strengthening the tools and methods of control undertaken by member states. the commission is very pleased with the close cooperation it has had with the rapporteur and the members of the committee on fisheries during our work on this important proposal. i am happy to be able to inform you that we accept more than half of the amendments of the committee on fisheries which greatly reinforce our proposal and which we will readily defend in the council. let me now turn to the amendments proposed in the report before us. the commission can accept amendment 1. the commission has difficulty in accepting amendment 2. it is not advisable to prioritise tasks in the regulation since priorities may change in future years as a result of tasks fulfilled and objectives attained. the commission does, however, note the merit in including controls of illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries in the work programme of the agency. the commission can accept amendment 3.the commission cannot accept amendments 4, 25 and 27. voting arrangements must take into account the specific characteristics of this body, which is charged with control tasks. the proposal is based on the need to strike a balance between the part played by the member states and the necessity at commission level to ensure that the agency develops in conformity with the stated objectives of the common fisheries policy. the commission has difficulty in accepting amendment 5. it involves an increase in the scope of the agency into areas beyond its inspection and control remit. the commission is convinced that the scope of its proposal is adequate as it stands and should remain focused on its core tasks – that is, those of control and inspection. research activities directly related to control can, of course, be considered. the commission can accept amendment 6.as far as amendment 7 is concerned, the commission has difficulty in accepting the substance of this amendment as currently worded. it is too restrictive in that not all fisheries agreements currently include an enforcement arrangement. although the commission cannot accept amendment 8, the scope of the agency can, of course, include the control of vessels involved in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing as long as it is within the framework of schemes adopted by regional fisheries organisations. the commission can accept amendments 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.however, the commission has a difficulty with amendment 14 concerning the provision of information on the applicability and cost-effectiveness of the rules of the common fisheries policy with regard to control and inspection, since it would substantially modify the mission and tasks of the agency. the commission cannot accept amendment 15 since article 7 refers only to the obligations of member states. it should be noted, however, that the commission has a right to request that the agency provide services relating to the obligations of the community under article 5 of the proposal. i can certainly agree to the important role that the agency will play in training; however, i have difficulty in accepting amendment 16 since the agency should not be obliged to create a training centre. member states may, for practical and operational reasons, prefer to have training courses and seminars provided locally. the remit of the agency should not lead to a curtailment of this eventuality. the commission can accept amendment 17. as for amendment 18, the commission has difficulty in accepting the substance of the amendment as currently worded. the suggested role of the advisory committee for fisheries and aquaculture (acfa) cannot be accepted, as it would put this body, which is of an advisory character only, in a position that is similar to those of the community institutions such as the european parliament, the commission and the council. therefore, as much as the commission welcomes those proposals by which parliament can be better informed about the works of the agency, it is not in favour of giving the same standing to advisory bodies such as acfa and the racs. for the same reason the commission cannot accept amendments 22, 42 and 43. while the commission cannot accept amendment 19, it accepts that there is a need to amend the text of the second recital so that it refers to activities both within community waters and outside community waters. the commission has no comment to make on amendment 20 as the location of the agency falls within the competence of the spanish authorities. the commission cannot accept amendment 21. the commission has difficulty with amendments 23 and 24. firstly, acfa is an advisory body and should not be involved in management. secondly, concerning the appointment of the fishing industry representatives, the commission proposal follows the pattern of other agencies wherever stakeholder representatives are present in administrative boards. in such cases it is usually the commission that nominates the representatives of the sector. the commission has difficulty in accepting amendment 26 as the administrative board must be able to examine specific items on its agenda without the presence of industry representatives where there is an issue of confidentiality or conflict of interest. the commission can accept amendments 28, 29, 30 and 31. the commission has difficulty with amendment 32. the commission believes that it is in the community interest that it retains the power to propose the dismissal of the executive director and that this should be on the basis of a simple majority; otherwise, the position of the commission is weakened. the commission cannot accept amendment 33 as it is felt that three years is too short a period within which to have an external evaluation. the commission has difficulty in accepting amendment 34 as the text of the commission proposal is consistent with standard agreed drafting rules whereas the amendment is not. while the commission understands the principle of amendment 35, it cannot accept it since it would be contentious and difficult to implement in practice. the commission cannot accept amendments 36, 38, 39, 40 and 41. they have the effect of weakening the proposal. as i said at the outset, we must succeed in establishing a fisheries control agency that is effective and that can function well. in any case, i understand that the committee on fisheries voted against similar amendments at its meeting of 2 february. the commission cannot accept amendment 37 – as i have stated previously, racs have an advisory role and should not be involved in management.
rapporteur.– mr president, commissioner, the committee on fisheries warmly welcomes the proposal to establish a community fisheries control agency. we believe that it can make a major contribution to the uniform and cost-effective implementation of control and inspection programmes. in the view of the committee, the agency should also play a significant role in the fight against illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, including in appropriate circumstances its occurrence outside community waters. other amendments seek to establish that the agency can provide appropriate information and assistance to the commission and to member states, for example in relation to health and safety at work, the development of technical inspection solutions and the cost-effectiveness of the common fisheries policy rules on control and inspection. the committee also, as the commissioner has mentioned, calls for the agency to be able to establish a training centre for inspectors, rather than just develop a core curriculum. where the report differs significantly from the commission proposal is in the belief that the fishing industry, not the commission, should nominate its own representatives to the administrative board and that these representatives should have the right to vote. i turn now to the amendments tabled by the alde group. two concern the role of regional advisory councils. we believe that there is merit in their being consulted in the course of drafting joint deployment plans, and certainly that they should be informed of the agency's assessment of the effectiveness of such plans. the remaining amendments centre on joint deployment plans. this, commissioner, is not an attempt to weaken the proposal. there appear to be differing interpretations of what is meant by operational coordination. on one interpretation the agency will be concerned only with providing for the practical deployment of resources which have already been committed by member states and ensuring that these resources are actually deployed in the manner determined by the plan. this seems to be the model envisaged by the commission in the flow chart that it provided. unfortunately, this model is not adequately reflected in the current wording of article 12, nor does it square with article 11(1)(b) of the proposal which, and i quote: 'gives the agency power to identify the means of control and inspection to be pooled according to the criteria in article 11(2)'. similarly, article 13 specifies that member states, and i quote again: 'shall commit and make available those means of control and inspection that are identified in the joint deployment plan'. this is a much more extensive interpretation of the tasks involved in operational coordination and from reading the commission's flow chart, although not the legal text, it appears to result in considerable control over the actual commitment of resources being placed in the hands of the agency's executive director alone. the alde group amendments are designed to reconcile these differing interpretations and to ensure that the rules and the practice march hand in hand. i hope very much that parliament will accept the amendments but whether it does or not i believe that the commission and the council will themselves have to find a means of resolving these issues. i wish to reassure my colleagues again that i am not engaged in any kind of subversive activity. indeed, i actually favour the more extensive interpretation of operational coordination, subject to the appropriate safeguards. my fundamental concern is that bad law will not make for a good agency. for this reason, i shall be recommending to my own group that we abstain on the report unless amendments 38 and 39 at least are passed, although we shall of course support the legislative resolution.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, around the world, fish conservation is only effective when it is under national control. i have spoken to dozens of fishermen in devon and cornwall who know precisely how to conserve fish stocks, but nobody ever asks for their advice. i suggest that the current common fisheries policy, with its totally unworkable quota system designed by office-bound bureaucrats, should be scrapped immediately and replaced by a new fisheries policy designed by the fishermen themselves. the problem for britain has been the strict enforcement of the cfp to the nth degree, first of all by maff and then by defra. one example was their insistence that a fisherman called ken bagley – whom i happen to know very well – should rub his thumb on the underbellies of five tonnes of sprats to ensure that there were no immature herrings in the catch. in the uk we say 'it takes a sprat to catch a mackerel'. perhaps we should be saying 'it takes a sprat to catch a herring'! little wonder that britain's gdp for fishing has gone down from gbp 561 million in 1964 to gbp 520 million in 2003, despite inflation. in norway, which controls its own fisheries policy, the figures have increased from nok 7.5 billion to nok 10.1 billion over the same period. the environmental crisis in the north sea is man-made. it is a classic stratagem of the european commission to exploit such a crisis in the cause of closer european integration. this is known as a beneficial crisis. europe's solution to something which is not working is to put even more europe into it, thus a new fisheries agency is created, based in vigo, spain. surprise, surprise! in future, british fishing boats will be policed in our own territorial waters by patrol boats operating under the control of this new agency and sent out on the authority of the eu's inspectorate based in madrid. poor old francis drake must be turning in his grave. perhaps we should get ready to light the beacons! (applause)
mr president, to believe in a community fisheries control agency, one has to believe in the common fisheries policy. northern ireland's experiences of it have been dire. courtesy of the cfp, we have seen our fishing fleet drastically reduced by over-regulation and punitive closures. i cannot support the common fisheries policy, and therefore i will not support a community control agency. in my view, fishing is properly a matter for national control, not eu control. therefore all inspection mechanisms should be initiated and operated nationally. this agency, alas, is but another part of the empire-building that brussels so readily takes upon itself. faced with the probable reality of the community fisheries control agency, i will use my vote in this house, as i did in committee, to seek to restrict its ambit and enhance national input.
mr president, i am sure that by now commissioner borg will have come to recognise the uncertain pleasure of addressing an empty house on the subject of fisheries late on a tuesday evening, but at least he has the privilege of talking for more than two minutes. it was also refreshing to hear commissioner borg say that he could accept almost half of the committee's amendments. that must be without precedent in the last decade of statements from fisheries commissioners. my party, the uk conservative party, has a manifesto commitment to withdrawing britain from the cfp and restoring fisheries management to national and local control. nevertheless, i recognise that even in circumstances in which britain is no longer a participating member of the cfp, we will still have many vessels fishing outwith the uk 200-mile limit and in eu and international waters. in these circumstances, and accepting that this proposal is a fait accompli, it is therefore important that we support a workable proposal for the creation of an eu fisheries control agency. i would like to congratulate mrs attwooll on the great work she has done on this report. there is no doubt that the different approach to fisheries control in different member states has caused widespread ill-feeling in the past. i have often heard fishermen in scotland saying that fishermen in spain get off far too lightly. then you go to spain and hear fishermen there saying that fishermen in scotland get off too lightly, so we clearly need a level playing field. there is also a need for the even-handed application of the rules. the commission's proposals seek to achieve that objective. i believe, however, that we should try not to gild the lily by embellishing the commission's plans with amendments which vest even more power in the new agency. on that basis, i am alarmed that the commission has rejected the consultation of regional advisory councils, which form a very important pillar in cfp reform and give meaningful stakeholder involvement to fishermen, scientists and others involved in the industry. i hope the commission will reconsider that.
mr president, i am sure we can all agree that the establishment of a community fisheries control agency should be welcomed in principle. we hear a lot about the importance of having a level playing field for the application of rules under the common fisheries policy. the creation of the agency in vigo has the potential to help create more uniform, more effective control and inspection procedures and so increase compliance. it might also reduce overall expenditure on control and inspection measures. a feasibility study published after the drafting of the regulation suggested that such potential will only be fulfilled if certain organisational and operational criteria are met. this led the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, to propose a number of amendments clarifying the text. many members of the committee on fisheries argued that the rapporteur's amendments watered down the role of the agency. i disagreed with this and supported the draft report in committee. the draft report seemed, to me, to clarify the role and responsibility of the member states, the commission and the agency and to improve regional involvement. joint deployment plans, involving a pooling by member states of their inspection and control resources are crucial to the success of the agency's work. the amendment retabled by the rapporteur aimed to make sure that the role of the agency as a facilitator is clear. i have consistently supported a meaningful role for regional advisory councils in fisheries management. for this reason i believe it would also be appropriate for racs to be consulted during the drafting of joint deployment plans. that would help ensure compliance. information about the activities of the agency should be widely circulated and an annual assessment given to the european parliament, the commission, the member states, the advisory committee on fisheries and aquaculture and the regional advisory councils. i have had some differences with pse group colleagues in defining the role of the agency, but i can certainly join with them in welcoming its creation and looking forward to more effective compliance in our fisheries.
member of the commission. i thank chairman morillon and the fisheries committee for bringing this matter up for debate. it is fitting that we have an exchange of views in plenary in advance of the opening of the fao committee on fisheries, which is meeting on 7 march. i note that this issue has already been raised in the question submitted by mrs attwooll and mr davies on behalf of the alde group, to which a written response has been provided, and that i have had the opportunity of replying to a recent letter from mrs attwooll in the same vein. i would like to reiterate that i share your concerns on the severity of the by-catch problem and on the need to take action, both at community and international level, to address it. there is already a considerable acquis on specific by-catch issues dealt with in various international agreements and other instruments, including standing international action plans. the community contributes actively to the development and implementation of this acquis, which particularly concerns species that are caught in the course of fishing operations, such as seabirds, sharks, marine mammals and sea turtles. however, i agree with you that to reduce by-catch and discards of non-target species, there is considerable room for improved international co-operation, and the figures mentioned illustrate the magnitude of the problem and the urgency with which the matter should be considered. within the scope of its powers, the community is already taking action under the common fisheries policy on a number of fronts. specific measures were reported in the commission’s reply to the written question submitted by mr davies in november 2003 on the by-catch associated with shrimp fisheries. these include: the action plan on discards; financial incentives for the use of selective fishing gear under council regulation (ec) no 2792/1999; a specific three-year research project under the 6th framework programme to develop low-impact, species-selective fishing gears, and to formulate alternative fishing tactics; the setting of by-catch quotas in bilateral fisheries partnership agreements; the obligations to monitor discards for specific stocks set forth in the data collection regulation. regular efforts are also made to integrate by-catch reduction measures in community regulations establishing fishing limits through tacs, effort limitations and technical measures. the commission is thus convinced of the need to promote a global, comprehensive strategy to deal with the problems posed by by-catch and discards, since such an analysis lies at the core of an ecosystem approach to fisheries management. it is important that an internationally agreed set of principles is established that should not only build on the existing international acquis, but go on to integrate and further develop the ecosystem approach in worldwide fisheries management. therefore, the commission is ready to support the development of an international action plan on by-catch and will seek member states' agreement to convey this position to the fao and its members during the forthcoming committee on fisheries (cofi) meeting, in particular at the time that cofi’s work programme in the short and medium term is discussed. the commission would be prepared to take the lead in the formulation and development of such an initiative if the necessary extra resources required to tackle such a work-intensive task can be made available to it.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, few things have come to symbolise the failure of the common fisheries policy more than the spectacle of by-catch. as we see from this oral question, the situation is not unique to the eu. it is a worldwide problem and the commission can offer leadership on the issue by proposing an international plan of action. i am delighted that this evening the commissioner has said that he is willing to do that. first, we need to take action within the eu. it is estimated that fishermen discard up to 2 million tonnes of dead fish into the sea every year within eu waters as a result of high grading or simply because the fish are undersized or out of quota. we have forced fishermen into this destructive and unsustainable behaviour in the name of conservation, so one of the first policies we have to pursue is to insist on all fish being landed. there should be tough penalties for anyone caught discarding fish. this is the policy in iceland, norway and the faroes. by insisting on everything being landed, the scientists get a much more accurate picture of the size and nature of the catch, enabling more accurate stock recovery measures to be put in place and more rapid action to be taken to close areas where juveniles are being caught. i am well aware that to implement such a dramatic reversal of policy will require sticks and carrots: sticks to hit those who offend and continue to dump dead fish, but carrots by way of financial compensation to the fishermen who land fish they would otherwise have thrown over the side. the commission should not panic: it will not have to pay. the fishmeal and fish oil industry are desperate for more raw material. i hope that the unjustified ban on feeding fishmeal to ruminants will soon be lifted, thereby increasing demand. the expanding aquaculture industry is also a major user of fishmeal, so the fishmeal industry will be happy to pay for this material at prices of perhaps up to eur 70 per tonne. i understand the commission is keen on this idea and has already identified two trawlers to try out the policy. i applaud commissioner borg for this initiative.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, scientists publish figures on a regular basis showing that the world's fish stocks are at risk and that currently popular fish stocks may face extinction unless drastic action is taken to allow stocks to recover. in the context of declining fish stocks, the problem of by-catch is all the more regrettable. according to the most recent figures from the un food and agriculture organization, 7.3 million tonnes of non-target marine species are discarded globally each year as a result of unselective fishing practices. this figure is truly shocking, and is not far below the eu 15's entire landed fish production in 2002-2003. discarding fish has various consequences: biological consequences because the majority are dead or moribund; and economic consequences because small fish produce less profit if sold, and no profit at all if they are discarded and therefore never grow because they are dead. in stock assessment and fisheries management, where discards are an unknown quantity, fishing mortality rates are also unknown quantities. in 2003 the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report, drafted by nils busk, on the commission action plan to reduce fish discards. the report made many useful suggestions to improve on the commission's strategy for dealing with the problem of discards. these included calling for adequate data collection to obtain a better, more precise picture of the extent of the problem; finding ways of rewarding those fleets employing more selective fishing gear, resulting in lower discards; and monitoring research findings on alternative fishing gear with a view to improving technical measures such as net mesh sizes and windows. it also asked the commission to examine how regional advisory councils might be involved. i welcome the initiatives taken by the commission on technical measures in recent years. over the past 10 years the eu budget has contributed eur 8 million annually to over 400 research projects aimed at increasing gear selectivity, reducing discards or quantifying the impact of fishing on the environment. it is vital that the focus now shifts to by-catch reduction measures. i believe the commission recognises that by-catch is a global problem. the next meeting of the food and agriculture organization's committee on fisheries in march 2005 offers a valuable opportunity to propose an fao international plan of action. i welcome the commissioner's desire to work on this issue and take a lead. commissioner, i urge you to not allow the opportunity to slip away, because the next meeting is not until 2007.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank the commissioner for his very supportive response, which recognises the severity of the by-catch problem and the importance of addressing it internationally as a matter of urgency. we are particularly grateful that he is willing to raise the issue at the meeting of the fao committee in march. for, as has already been said, without agreement there in principle, the formulation of any international plan of action would have to wait for another two years. by-catch is a global problem that requires a genuinely global solution, a genuinely global commitment to tackling it. as mrs stihler has said, the fao data estimates the extent of the problem at 7.3 million tonnes a year. an international plan of action would not, of course, be the first or only attempt to tackle the problem. much valuable work is already being done both within and outside the eu. this tends to involve a piecemeal focus on specific fisheries or specific by-catch species. an integrated approach would help support and extend the success of such schemes and crucially prevent displacement of the problem from one area, or species, to another. it makes real sense for the eu to be at the forefront of promoting such an integrated approach. after all, our vessels fish far beyond eu waters. our actions impact on others as, of course, do the actions of others on us. i believe, too, that our citizens, like so many citizens across the globe, feel a real sense of responsibility for the stewardship of natural resources. putting the eu at the forefront of action to prevent this particular kind of wastage would be welcomed by them. i look forward to hearing of the progress made at the meeting and whilst i cannot make any promises as to the outcome, am ready to try to persuade my colleagues to give favourable consideration to any substantiated request from the commission for a temporary transfer of budgetary resources to allow them to participate fully in the drawing up of such an international plan of action.
mr president, i had the privilege of representing this house at the funeral of yasser arafat. later, i chaired the observer delegation to the palestine elections. last year i visited egypt, algeria, yemen and syria, following the path of arab reform. regrettably, the threat of terrorism remains all too real in much of the region. while in palestine, and in a purely private capacity, i had a meeting with representatives of hamas on the west bank, on the basis that they had fought the municipal elections in palestine. i urged them then, and i urge them again today, to take part in the parliamentary elections on 17 july. however, before doing so, hamas must not only renounce violence, but also hand in its weapons to the palestine security forces. rightly, others have paid tribute to mr imbeni, my predecessor as vice-president representing parliament on the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. mr trakatellis and i assist you, mr president, in that work. i believe that the arabs deserve democracy. president bush rightly talks about arab freedom. my distant relation, t. e. lawrence of arabia, once wrote: 'i wrote my will across the sky in stars to earn you freedom, that seven-pillared worthy house.' the question today is who will give the arabs freedom, the stars and stripes or the stars of the european union? i believe we should work together, but i say to the americans that this is our neighbourhood.
mr president, high standards of human rights are part of the raison d'être of the eu, both internally and internationally, in its foreign and development policies. i am, however, a little cynical when i see references to the un human rights commission, whose current membership includes saudi arabia, which publicly beheads people for drug and alcohol offences; cuba, which executed three people last year for attempting to flee the country in a hijacked ferry and locks up political dissidents, and zimbabwe, which is a dictatorship in which press freedom is suppressed and people are subject to arbitrary arrest and torture. ironically, all three countries are cited in the resolution. this is reflected in the 'no action' taken over zimbabwe and china, where there is extensive use of the death penalty, even for such crimes as corruption, pimping, drug offences and tax fraud, its systematic torture of dissidents and its restrictions on freedom of speech, including the internet, and religious practice, getting off the hook. china also has a nasty habit of sustaining brutal regimes like sudan, burma and north korea, irrespective of the atrocities they commit, on the basis of non-interference in their internal affairs. nevertheless, the unchr is the only international vehicle we have for promoting human rights globally, so we must stick with it. i welcome the bulk of this resolution, in particular the defence of the state's duty to protect its citizens against terrorism and the need to continue dialogue on human rights with countries such as iran, whose track record is appalling with the recent execution of a 16-year-old girl for sexual misdemeanours. i also take issue with listing india, which is a democracy and subject to the rule of law, being in the same list as china and zimbabwe. the indian state actually practices positive discrimination in favour of the lower castes. some recognition must also be given to uzbekistan and president karimov's recent undertakings that there have admittedly been excesses in his country in the fight against islamist terrorists, but he now wishes to free up the press, establish an independent judiciary and abolish the death penalty. these are serious considerations. i feel strongly that we must encourage countries and their leaders who are not totally beyond the pale to move in the right direction and reward them for it.
mr president, if the european union really wants to make a difference on human rights, it has to start to get serious. for millions of people, the key to a better future, economic development, and to the much-needed improvement in human rights is good governance, and yet there is reluctance on the part of the european union to confront regimes that are serial abusers of their people. in africa, and this is a continent to which the european union apparently attaches special importance, a very clear test case of the seriousness of our resolve is zimbabwe. for years the people of zimbabwe have suffered under the vicious, bigoted and corrupt mugabe regime. this parliament has been consistent, through many resolutions, in its call for robust action against mugabe and those who keep him in power. i am sorry to say that the council's reaction has been limp-wristed. at least last week council renewed its targeted sanctions, but these are not being applied with any real vigour; they are not hurting mugabe's cronies. with elections in zimbabwe just five weeks away, simply renewing existing eu sanctions does not send a clear message to the regime that it must change for the better or face the consequences. it was disappointing that the union failed to take the opportunity to threaten further specific sanctions should violence, oppression and intimidation mar the elections in zimbabwe. conditions in zimbabwe are appalling. the opposition mdc has no access to the state-controlled media, its meetings are disrupted and there are over 400 court cases pending against mdc candidates. the voters' rolls are out of date, the opposition has no idea where polling stations will be and to get food, people are forced to attend mugabe's rallies. no robust international observer mission has been invited and there are arrests of the few remaining international journalists. at the 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights in geneva, the eu should sponsor a specific resolution on zimbabwe and, in any case, use all means at its disposal over the coming vital weeks to ensure free and fair elections in that benighted country. (applause)
rapporteur.– mr president, on several occasions there have been lengthy discussions with both the dutch and the luxembourg presidencies and an informal trialogue to reach an informal agreement within the procedure under article 251 of the treaty. i am a little surprised, therefore, that the alde group, having been involved in this, have asked for a split vote. if we do not vote in accordance with the block compromise we would be unpicking everything that had been agreed, or the basis of the agreement, in the compromise. so i urge people to go for the block compromise and support the first two parts in its entirety.
rapporteur.– mr president, i have a purely technical point concerning amendment 13. all language versions of this should be made to conform with the spanish original so that, for example, in english it will read: 'investigate and develop technical control and inspection solutions'.
in writing. this report supports a regulation to establish a common framework for the presentation of community statistics on vocational training in enterprises. although it sounds rather dry, this proposal is to be warmly welcomed as it underpins the policy of lifelong learning as a basic component of the european employment strategy (as acknowledged by the lisbon european council in 2000). the report requires member states to compel enterprises to report on levels of training, it also calls for access to vocational training to be broader so that workers have access to training regardless of their contract type and even if they are employed in businesses with less than 10 employees.
in writing. i support the stated objectives of this directive as it now stands, namely to reduce fraud, to guarantee truly free movement of eu drivers and to reinforce safety on european roads. i feel the amendments from the european parliament have improved the proposal. nevertheless, difficulties do remain that can be tidied up, particularly concerning motorcycles, caravans and motor-homes.
mr president, i will be very brief. i want to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party as to why it abstained on the amended proposal and then voted for the legislative resolution. our explanation of vote is very simple. we believe that joint deployment plans are important for the effectiveness of the agency's work. that is why we voted for those amendments. amendments 36 to 43 clarify the rule of the agency in implementing these joint deployment plans and they also give an appropriate role to regional advisory councils.
in writing. uk conservatives abstained on the vote on the creation of a centralised fisheries control agency in vigo in spain for the following reasons: firstly, the policy of centralising fisheries control is politically part of the integrationist agenda of the european commission which as conservatives we oppose. secondly, we accept that in the event of a conservative government withdrawing from the cfp and returning fisheries management to local and national control many uk vessels will nevertheless continue to fish in eu waters outwith the uk 200 mile limit. in these circumstances, and accepting the fact that the commission policy to create an eu fisheries control agency in vigo is a fait accomplis, it will be in british interest to a working relationship with this new body. we therefore felt it was appropriate rather than opposing outright the proposal to abstain in this vote.
mr president, i would like to explain why i did not support the amendments to paragraph 20. it is important that we look at the idea of banning smoking in public places in the european parliament. we look to the european commission to do something, but it is wrong at this stage to start talking about having exclusions for certain areas or little glass cabinets where people can smoke, because somebody has to clean those areas afterwards. workers have to clean them and i am not sure there is any evidence to show that such areas actually prevent smoke escaping. we should not prejudice the debate at this stage. primary responsibility in this area lies with member states. member states should conform with legislation, the commission should help coordinate it and bring forward best practice. member states cannot escape their responsibilities by passing on to europe things they are not sure they want to do at home. i am very much against the idea of prejudicing the whole debate by deciding now what we are going to do.
in writing. i am supporting this report because of the amendment to paragraph 6 of the original, discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i understand the need to use the 'precautionary principle' to protect consumers from the possible long-term dangers of the phthalate family of chemicals including dehp, but i represent a factory in quedgeley, in gloucestersire, gambro, which has received the queen's award to industry and has 120 employees. this factory uses dehp for devices that help control blood clotting. people in such circumstances have to worry about the next 25 minutes rather than the next 25 years. in those circumstances, the exception that allows dehp and other phthalates to be used 'where such a restriction would have a negative impact on medical treatment' is entirely appropriate. on that basis i will vote for the amended ries report.
mr president, i too am grateful to the council and commission for being back here promptly for this debate which has overrun. i only have enough speaking time to raise two issues. the first is that of colombia. human rights organisations and the un secretary-general's special representative on human rights defenders have expressed regret at the eu position on colombia taken at the recent donors' meeting at cartagena. the eu has a special responsibility in negotiating on the chair's statement, and i hope the council will confirm today that it will postpone producing a draft text until the office of the high commissioner for human rights has produced recommendations for this year. i hope that we in the eu will back those recommendations in full. second, last year's deferral for further consideration of the draft un norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations must genuinely lead to action this year which will ensure that companies observe human rights obligations. in this year, the 20th anniversary of the bhopal disaster, minimum standards for companies are required which will reduce the number of victims of abuse across the world in future years.
mr president, moldova is a small landlocked country, the poorest in europe, whose importance to the eu will rise as our frontiers will border it by 2007. it is also the location of a frozen conflict in its breakaway territory of transnistria, under russian military protection since 1991, following a bloody secessionist conflict. this territory is a haven for gansterism, smuggling and money laundering and corrupts the local authorities around the odessa oblast in ukraine. president voronin, whom i met a year ago, in spite of being a communist and ethnically russian, is committed to eu and nato approximation for his country after a row with president putin, who failed to withdraw russian troops by 2002 from transnistria, as agreed. i have no doubt that the parliamentary elections on 6 march, although far from perfect in terms of media bias in the run-up and the monopoly of administrative resources, will not be subject to the kind of fraud seen under prime minister yanukovych in neighbouring ukraine, which sparked off the famous orange revolution. the european parliament, the parliamentary assemblies of the council of europe and nato, as well as osce/odihr presence in moldova, with romanian and ukrainian help, will prevent such a scenario. the new parliament must help romania, ukraine, russia, the usa and the eu get together with the moldovan government to solve the transnistria problem. reassurances of strong safeguards for slav minorities must be given, probably along with a form of devolved government to the territory, which, after all, has never been part of historic bessarabia or been romanian speaking and which stalin annexed cruelly to create moldova 60 years ago. i personally would start by advocating tightening of the sanctions against tiraspol by asking president yushchenko of ukraine, who was here this morning, to further demonstrate his independence from moscow by preventing mr smirnov and his 16 cronies from travelling to ukraine as the eu has already done with the visa ban. i would also ask the council to bring in a policy to prevent any aircraft landing in eu territory having taken off from tiraspol military airport, thus ensuring they all fly out of chisinau, where they can be openly inspected for smuggling, including arms trafficking.
mr president, during my two minutes speaking time 40 people will die of hunger: 3.5 seconds per person; 24 000 people per day; 9 million every year; 400 million in the past 50 years - 3 times the number of people killed in all the world wars of the last century. we talk, we debate, we wring our hands. what we do not do is do something about it. almost daily in this parliament we talk about the lisbon agenda - competitiveness and growth leading to prosperity in europe. we are slowly beginning to understand that you can only achieve that with healthy people. however, the low income countries of our world also need their own lisbon agenda, and they need healthy people too. malnutrition means disease and disability. disease means a reduced and ever less-productive workforce. that means poverty; and poverty means the inability to counter disease and hunger. that is the vicious circle that we have to break. that is what the millenium development goals set out to do. that is what the world food summit set out to achieve. that is what the declaration on action against hunger and poverty, once again, has declared. even my own report in the acp set it out yet again. we have 30 years of resolutions and 30 years of failure. the key is not food aid but food security. the former for emergencies, but the latter for long-term survival. the key is removing barriers to the imports of produce from low-income countries. the key is to ensure that our rightful concern with the tsunami-affected countries does not strip africa of crucial aid. the key is to stress to president bush - while he is here, in europe - as well as to other member states that aid is not an opportunity to reduce first world agricultural surpluses, but that he should buy local with aid money. if you cannot buy local, buy regional. the key is to reinvest debt repayments in indebted nations to meet those millenium goals for hunger and disease. only then can we give real hope to the 800 million of our fellow human beings who are undernourished. then we will meet those food production targets, not globally but specifically in high-debt, low-income countries. that is what this motion sets out to achieve.
mr president, you said that it was time for action and we in parliament agree with you. we have a unique opportunity for action this year because we have the two big issues of the banana and sugar regimes on the trade agenda where we can show that we mean business in terms of helping the developing world. i am pleased with what commissioners mandelson and michel have said. i was recently in the caribbean, meeting small farmers with tiny farms who cannot survive without access to the eu markets. we cannot rob those slightly less poor people to give to the poorest in the world; we have to have a just reform of the banana and sugar regimes. that will be a real test of our mettle. the wto conference in hong kong in december will be another enormous test for the eu on tariffs. we all know that we have spoken many warm words over the years, but i have seen what goes on behind the scenes in developing countries – eu tomato paste and american rice dumped on the markets of ghana and some of the poorest countries in africa. it is time now for action. we will be scrutinised by the ngo movement and by public opinion, which today is watching more carefully than ever because of the big campaigns like 'make poverty history'. they will watch what we do and judge us. that will have a big effect on how public opinion perceives the european union.
acting president of the council. i think what i said was that the council will be in touch with the israeli government on this. as regards respect for human rights in general, i must add that mr vanunu has been released. the only problem is that the conditions under which he was released may not be the ones we would have liked. but we are in contact with the israeli authorities on this matter and we will certainly be discussing it.
president-in-office of the council, will you remind the israelis, when you discuss this issue with them, that mr mordechai vanunu was illegally taken from european soil. effectively, he was kidnapped and taken to israel to face trial. the offences for which he was charged took place 20 years ago, and the notion that he still has secrets that could do israel some harm 20 years later is clearly ludicrous. will you encourage the israeli government to stop their persecution of this individual, allow him to leave israel and, if he so desires, to live in the european union?
acting president of the council. i think the action plan is a pretty general action plan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think the message has been heard and we will try to work on a number of suggestions, particularly the problems to which the honourable member has referred.
president-in-office of the council, it is a sad fact that many of those who will try to take advantage of the tragic situation in the tsunami countries will be european citizens. will the council look at creating a europe-wide register of child sex offenders outside the territory of the european union, so as to ensure that every member state is aware of the activities of these individuals and to ensure that we have a common eu approach to dealing with them when they return to european soil?
acting president of the council. i can inform the honourable member that to date there has been no specific debate on the subject of european tax havens, although in a number of areas when the question of greater tax harmonisation has been raised, the question has never been completely absent. the council and the representatives of the governments of the member states adopted a resolution on 1 december 1997 on a code of conduct on business taxation. this resolution deals with tax measures which have or may have a significant impact on the location of economic activities within the community, with potentially harmful measures being examined in the framework of the code of conduct group (corporate taxation). the measures considered harmful are in fact being phased out. the code of conduct group is currently working on this. the final report of the group was presented to the ecofin council, which took note of it at its meeting on 7 december 1994. the group should continue to monitor the freezing and implementation of decommissioning and report to the council during this presidency.
mr president-in-office, i am referring to places such as the isle of man, the channel islands, andorra, monaco, san marino and others - places that are hardly independent countries or, if they claim to be so, they still rely entirely on the goodwill of the european union for their continued existence. in spite of that these places are not subject to all european union standards. they are exempt from legislation, even money laundering legislation, and they are duty-free tax havens. is it not time that we addressed this situation? surely a genuine free market has no loopholes.
acting president of the council. i fully agree with the supplementary comments made by the honourable member. i can remind him that we have reached agreement on a directive on the taxation of savings. the territories or countries to which it refers are also included in this directive, in a parallel manner and through a number of agreements. this is therefore a step in the right direction. the autonomous countries or territories are included in this directive, or at least they must also apply the provisions of the directive on taxation of savings.
acting president of the council. as regards indirect taxation, to which you referred, it will be necessary to try, indeed, since it is at union level that legislation is being enacted in this area, to make these directives a little more readable and easier to apply. it should be borne in mind that national tax laws are a matter for national jurisdiction. the search for a minimum of harmonization, for example in the area of the plate, would be to take a further step. it's an open debate. i hope that in the context of the so-called better regulation, the indirect taxation to which you have referred will not be ignored.
mr president-in-office, i am grateful to robert evans for tabling this question. i am interested in whether you believe that the existence of tax havens makes it more difficult to track down and freeze the funds of organisations that are considered terrorist organisations; and also whether their existence makes it more difficult, for example, for the world's poorer countries, to access money that may well have been siphoned off by some of the less reputable regimes for the benefit of those in power.
acting president of the council. madam president, the council is determined to ensure that the measures adopted to help the victims of the tsunami do not affect aid to africa, as it clearly stated in its conclusions of 7 january. paragraph 15 of the conclusions states that in this context solidarity in the face of this disaster must not make us forget the general problem of development, humanitarian aid and the millennium development goals, particularly in africa, nor reduce the resources needed for this purpose. in this respect, it is important to ensure that the resources made available by recent events are complementary to the development commitments already made. the council will therefore regularly review the implementation of these commitments. at its meeting on 31 january, the council also adopted a new set of measures in the form of an action plan to guide all the initiatives taken or to be taken by the union and the member states following the earthquake and tsunami in the indian ocean. the operational action plan, which will be monitored by the council's bodies, also reiterates in its introduction the importance of ensuring that the resources committed following the recent earthquake are not at the expense of the development commitments already made, particularly for africa, under the millennium development goals. it also contains a set of concrete operational measures to ensure that this political commitment is respected by monitoring the implementation of the financial commitments made following the disaster, which are in addition to the financial means approved under the european union's development policy, in particular for africa.
thank you, president-in-office, for that very encouraging reply. i am sure you will agree with me that it would be tragic if africa - which faces a tsunami week in, week out in a less visible way through the ravages of famine, its climate and diseases such as aids - were to lose money as a result of our justified generosity towards the victims of the tsunami. i would like to ask, before your time is up as president-in-office, if you would ask the commission to report and show that africa is still receiving as much money this year as it would have received if the tsunami had never happened?
on behalf of the group.– mr president, tomorrow our group will be voting in favour of all the amendments. i must thank the rapporteur for her hard work in bringing this consensus together, especially taking over the report as she did. it has been a wonderful example of all the institutions working together at the second reading to get a good result. it seems to me that this is an important and innovative proposal, giving us a very high level of consumer protection, and harmonisation of that protection, across the eu, in a comprehensible and coherent way. that is to be welcomed. it is also innovative in that, as a framework directive, it is combined with the use of codes of conduct. that is a good step forward. i hope, and it seems from what has been said here already tonight, that we will all be able to give this proposal a fair wind. on behalf of our group, i want to make two further, more specific, points. as others have said, there are still concerns about the definition of vulnerable consumers. i know, for instance, that in some of the nordic member states and, indeed, in the eea states for whom this legislation will have relevance, there are higher levels of protection already in existence. there are worries about how this will be affected in the future. i believe that the commission, during the transition period, should give some consideration to these concerns. i want to turn to one of the particular unfair commercial practices that is dealt with in the annex and is the subject of an amendment that we will vote on tomorrow. it is a particular practice in my own country that has reached epidemic proportions. i refer to the telephone scams, where people are phoned – again and again, evening after evening – told that they have won a prize and invited to phone another number, which, if they do, they will run up an horrendous and huge telephone bill. we will, at last, have the ammunition to deal with that when this legislation comes into force across the european union. i believe there are many other good things in this proposal that commends itself to us all in the house, and i hope it and our rapporteur get the support they deserve tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, i wish to add my support for agreement at second reading on this very important directive. i also want to thank mrs bresso for leading that negotiating process, together with all the shadow rapporteurs, in particular my colleague, mrs thyssen, who led for our side on this. this proposal, as many members have already said, will be very good for consumers. it will also be very good for thousands of businesses that want to trade fairly and provide high standards, because those companies are in many cases outraged when they see fraudsters perpetrating scams on unsuspecting consumers. they want them dealt with as much as anybody else. unfortunately, ingenious tricksters keep finding ways to take money off unsuspecting consumers. it is interesting that since we started work on this we have already added a number of new provisions to this annex. one of the things we must have – and this is addressed to the commission – is a mechanism to keep absolutely on top of this. we must also ensure that we keep adding to the blacklist when we find that people are finding ways around the rules. we want consumers to have confidence that they can exercise their rights in the internal market. that leads me to the second point: as we are clearly going to approve this overwhelmingly tomorrow, it is now important to tell the commissioner that we want to see this transposed as quickly and effectively as possible. under its 'better regulation' proposals, the commission has new mechanisms to coordinate and push through transposition as quickly as possible. we expect the commission to do that and also to put pressure on those member states that, perhaps, are not quite as vigilant as they should be or are not supporting the consumer protection bodies with the resources required. a part of our overall work in this committee is to support consumers. it is an important flanking measure to other things we are working on. i must also say, in conclusion, that it is an essential foundation for what i know will be a very successful directive on the internal market for services, which i am confident this house will adopt very soon.
mr president, i am happy to follow mr harbour in that same spirit which characterised the committee. the tone was set from the outset by the rapporteur, and her energies and skills as a new member of this parliament were quite exceptional, particularly since in the last few weeks she has been crossing the alps more often than hannibal, with other activities in her own country also. i want to pay tribute to all those who brought this about under the treaty provisions for consumer protection, which had not been used very frequently up to now. everyone has to agree to a conclusion like this and any one person can wreck it. all of those who have spoken in the debate today have been contributors, both by withholding the negative power to destroy and joining the other institutions; the luxembourg presidency and the commission, and indeed the staff of our own committee, the internal market committee, a new committee, to whom i would pay particular tribute, so that we brought about the right result here. it extends the internal market; we should not forget that, because it produces more assured consumers. and it produces them because they are protected; because the special character of vulnerable consumers is acknowledged in this legislation; because there is a clear guarantee that high existing standards of consumer protection will not be imperilled and that over the next five years we move to higher standards for those that do not yet have them, and not lower standards for those who do; because the blacklist in the annexes here is clear, comprehensive and unambiguous. the consumer knows where she or he stands. so does the honest and legitimate businessman; and so does the cold-caller with the lottery scam; the rip-off timeshare artist; the peddler of mock sales. if you sail under false colours this directive will sink you. i can think of nothing better guaranteed to enhance the image of this institution as a people's parliament for the public good than legislation like this. it opens the way for further developments, including, in time, more sophisticated use of self-regulation by a stable industry, and for the position of children, the one social category who are, by definition, vulnerable. to those of our colleagues who felt that, in these fields, we did not go far enough, i would say that we have a foundation of security which harmonisation at the highest level can now proceed. we have helped our citizens, mr president. we have provided an object lesson for our colleagues. it is not a bad start for this new committee and for this new parliament and commission. i thank you all.
mr president, i too would like to add my congratulations to mrs bresso for ensuring particularly that we get this law to ban unfair commercial practices on the statute books at first reading. many of my constituents have written to me as the victims of bullying and aggressive door-to-door salesmen. i believe this law heralds the beginning of the end of the con merchants and the dodgy dealers who dupe and mislead our consumers. thank you to mrs bresso for adding to the list of banned practices the bogus prize draws and scam lotteries - a scourge that is plaguing my constituents and relieving them of large amounts of their hard-earned cash and pensions. one of my constituents paid out gbp 1 300 to a claims agent for transfer charges and tax to claim his non-existent eur 630 000 winnings from the fake lottery la primitiva. many of my elderly pensioners are being targeted by another bogus prize draw that promises winnings on return of a cheque paid for administrative costs. from premium rate telephone scams to property investment schemes; from door-to-door dodgy dealers offering building services, to the bogus lotteries and prize draws; the consumers in my country are being cheated out of gbp 1 billion a year. that is a lot of money lost to the economy. this law must protect the vulnerable consumer. it must ban unfair practices. i welcome this new law on behalf of my constituents. i believe it is a great model of how we can deliver on behalf of citizens and consumers in a relevant and practical way.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and indeed members from other political groups as well. we have achieved several very good compromises. my group will support the report. i should like to say in a personal capacity that it is wrong to include references to the working time and services directives in paragraphs 27 and 29, because it still has to go through the parliamentary process. while i am pleased that the reference to women and domestic work in the home in paragraph 16 has been removed to get away from gender stereotypes, which i know the rapporteur did not intend, my group has asked for a separate vote as paragraph 16 no longer makes sense as it refers both to men and women. the reference to gender mainstreaming in paragraph 14 is welcomed by my group. i am delighted that we got all-party support for inclusion in paragraph 21 of a reference to injuries caused by needles and other medical sharps to health workers. i thank everybody for their support on that. this affects one million health workers across the eu. i hope that the commission will take that on board. i should like to thank commissioner špidla very much for the constructive meeting we had this afternoon on this subject. i am also pleased that the implementation of directives has been mentioned. there is no point in bringing forward completely new health and safety legislation unless current legislation is equally implemented in all member states. if new legislation is brought forward it has to be subject to comprehensive impact assessments based on up-to-date scientific and medical evidence. that is the only way that new health and safety legislation should be brought forward.
mr president, all parties across this house clearly agree on the importance of health and safety in general, and on health and safety at work in particular. it is very good that this should be so. however, i disagree completely with the last speaker, who maintained that the commission has been complacent in this area. far from it; i would congratulate the commission on producing a report that has covered this important issue with a firm but light touch. the rapporteur, however, has chosen to use a somewhat heavier hand. the commission report mentions simplified and improved benchmarking and the importance of existing legislation being evenly applied in all member states. it points out that belgium, france and ireland have not yet provided any information. it also mentions the importance of developing non-legislative instruments for the protection of workers. i can agree with all of that. the rapporteur has used the opportunity to call for further legislation and to highlight the importance of extending the powers of trade unions. i do not agree with that and hence will be supporting the amendments of my colleague, mrs weisgerber. rather mischievously, the rapporteur has also used the opportunity of this health and safety report to promote, on the apparent basis of health and safety, the atypical workers directive concerned with temporary agency work. i also notice efforts to undermine the proposed services directive on the same spurious grounds. i cannot support either attempt. i understand the determination of the left to use every possible chance to derail the lisbon agenda by promoting the first directive and emasculating the second, but i am sure that the commission as a whole will not be taken in for one moment. it was a good try, though. i know that the rapporteur has put a lot of time and thought into this report. i agree with some of his points, but i hope he will forgive me for saying, as respectfully as i can, that i prefer the original commission document.
mr president, this house unanimously adopted a resolution on this very subject just over a year ago. the outrage expressed from every quarter last year caused thyssenkrupp to reconsider its decision to close its terni plant. it went further: in june 2004 it signed a new agreement with a new investment plan. this plan, as has already been said, promised to make terni a centre of excellence in magnetic sheet steel production, which is strange in light of what mr langen has just said. in return it would receive infrastructure and energy cost benefits under an agreement with the italian government. these were in addition to the substantial benefits the company received directly or indirectly from europe's structural funds. just seven months later, thyssenkrupp has torn up that agreement - and that is the issue we are considering here this evening. it has gone ahead with closure, bypassing the social partners, the italian government and others who were party to the agreement. the company is the latest in a long line to make a mockery of eu laws on worker information and consultation. commissioner, you mentioned the social agenda adopted just two weeks ago. let me quote a heading from that: ' moving towards full employment: making work a real option for all, increasing the quality and productivity of work, and anticipating and managing change'. i am sure those words will ring hollow in the ears of the workers hit by this decision. i am not criticising the commission; i applaud many of the ideas mr špidla has included in the new social agenda. let me remind you of some. the agenda underlines the need for a proactive approach to the positive management of industrial change. it talks of the need to reinforce social dialogue, update legislation on collective redundancies and update and consolidate existing laws on information and consultation. it launches the idea of transnational collective bargaining. finally, in the context of this debate, it underlines the need for improved corporate social responsibility. the outrageous behaviour of thyssenkrupp in italy underlines the need for all these things and more to be done as a matter of urgency. what do i mean by 'more'? let me say two things in closing. the first is that although the new social agenda foresees the creation of a number of high level groups, it fails to include a number of good ideas from past high level groups. how about the recommendations of the 1998 gyllenhammar group on industrial change that companies should produce annual managing change reports, and that any company dismissing workers without safeguarding their employability should be barred from access to public funds? only when csr includes such provisions, will companies like thyssenkrupp take any notice of it at all. finally, commissioner, you say that the commission is powerless. when the closure was announced at the beginning of last year, the commission and its president joined parliament in roundly condemning the decision. i hope, commissioner, you can give us the assurance this evening that you will do the same.
mr president, i shall open the discussion on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. i welcome commissioner potočnik here today. there is a great deal of goodwill towards the commissioner and the commission as a whole with regard to the seventh framework programme, as demonstrated by the speed with which the committee has conducted its business on the locatelli report. i hope the commission will build upon this goodwill and not dissipate it. the research community and the wider community expect a great deal from the seventh framework programme, as it is seen as a crucial part of the lisbon strategy for strengthening the european economy. research and development are key elements in that process. therefore, it is all the more important for us to get this right. commissioner, the purpose behind this oral question today is to give you the opportunity to share some thoughts with us before making your proposal to the council and the parliament on how research is to be funded. it seems to us that the crucial question relates to the doubling of expenditure on the research programme within the overall eu budget. can this fine ambition be achieved? how it is going to be achieved? we are looking with keen anticipation to you, commissioner, to tell us how you think you are going to achieve that. bearing in mind the existence of the 'one per cent club' of member states who wish to keep european-level spending within an overall cap of one per cent of gdp, i want to offer some suggestions as to ways in which spending on research might be increased at a european level, without necessarily breaching that one per cent cap, and given that there seems to be no lack of goodwill on the part of member states to spend more on research. the first suggestion is that the proposals for the spending programme with regard to research on security should be funded by the member states at european level, but outside the seventh framework programme. therefore, it would not count as part of the relevant budget item. secondly, i see great potential for using part of the cohesion fund for directing research spending to the new member states, and i hope you will be sympathetic to that suggestion, commissioner. now for the third suggestion. mr mayor oreja heads a special working group on the european research council, which has suggested that an independent body of scientists should take the programme of research forward, and that this should happen on the basis of excellence and scientific merit. quite a substantial budget has been proposed for this, totalling eur 2 billion a year once the working-up phase is complete. that will take a huge slice of the existing framework budget. i would therefore suggest that member states should also consider funding that outside the context of the seventh framework programme. i hope we will take on board a number of the suggestions in the marimon report. one of the most frequently-voiced concerns about our research activities at european level is the complexity and burden involved in the administrative procedures and regulations relating to the funds, which make it very difficult for small- and medium-sized enterprises and small research entities to access the funds and take part in the programmes. we all pay at least lip service to this. even when were debating the fourth framework programme, there was a great deal of concern about that. we talk about it; let us hope this time, commissioner, you are able to do something about it. the objective of pursuing excellence above all else is crucial to achieving successful research at european level. i look forward to your comments about how we fund all this with keen interest, commissioner.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i speak on behalf of my colleague joe borg, who unfortunately was unable to fly to strasbourg because of the handicaps caused by the heavy snowfall. i would like to thank the members of parliament for accepting the urgency procedure and the members of the committee on fisheries for their support and efficiency in handling that matter. the tsunami disaster devastated the coastal areas of numerous asian countries and, besides tourism, the fisheries and aquaculture sector of these countries was the most affected. the parliament and the council have already welcomed and encouraged the initiatives taken by the commission, in particular the measures aimed at rebuilding the sector in the areas concerned. this proposal is only a specific part of a whole package of rehabilitation and restructuring measures. it aims to create the legal framework to allow community vessels receiving public aid for permanent cessation to be transferred to countries affected by the tsunami, rather than being scrapped or reassigned for non-profitable purposes other than fishing. the intention is to make fishing capacity available in order to allow for a quick return to the activities on which the livelihood of countless coastal communities is completely dependent. we have taken particular care to ensure that the local needs are carefully assessed. in this respect, the role of fao, the un food and agriculture organization, is decisive for the implementation of the rebuilding efforts in the area. this is on the agenda for the next fao meeting of fisheries ministers in rome on 12 march. two main guiding principles have determined our approach in this proposal. first, a strong commitment to ensure consistency with the general objectives of the common fisheries policy and promote the sustainability of fishing activities in the long term. to achieve those objectives, we have proposed technical assistance to make an immediate impact assessment and design of the rehabilitation and reconstruction requirements for the areas concerned. in this respect, a monitoring system will be set up in order to avoid possible adverse effects on the local economy and to ensure that the vessels transferred meet the needs identified by fao. in addition, we have also stressed that the transfers must be in accordance with the third country's requests and that they respect the local fishing traditions. secondly, the european community must offer a mechanism making it possible to act swiftly, while establishing an effective monitoring and control system without imposing unnecessary administrative burdens. the present proposal respects these constraints. indeed, the proposal will not require reprogramming in the member states under the current structural regulation for the fisheries sector. it has the further advantage that there are no financial consequences for the community budget. i would stress the political importance of this proposal. faced with an immense destruction of thousands of vessels, this proposal alone will certainly have only a limited impact. the expected availability of suitable vessels, taking into account the principles of adaptability and sustainability, will allow us to meet only a fraction of the needs with this short-term measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the floods, including the closure of the fisheries sector in the affected countries. i can tell you that the council has already discussed this proposal at a technical level and the reactions of the member states are overall very encouraging. i also welcome the amendments tabled by parliament, which clearly has this issue very much at heart. the commission can accept a number of them. as regards the other amendments, i note that in many instances they are noteworthy in the sense that they go far beyond what this regulation may provide for and so, very regrettably, they cannot be taken on board as part of this regulation. their spirit, however, is undeniably driven by a clear commitment to alleviate the suffering brought on by the tsunami. i hope that the european parliament will give a positive opinion on this proposal to enable me to move this regulation forward in the council next monday, on 28 february. this will allow the member states to make the necessary changes in their internal regulations so that, if the needs are indeed established by the fao, we will be able to act quickly and effectively. let me turn to the amendments. the commission can accept amendment no 1. on amendment no 2: the commission agrees with the spirit of this amendment, but it is somewhat misplaced and inappropriate to have such a reference to education and training since this aspect is not within the scope with respect to third countries. however, i will be willing to make a statement before parliament adopts it later, in which the commission will state that appropriate training and educational measures should be encouraged for fishermen in the countries affected by the tsunami and in which the commission will state its intention to provide an assessment of the needs, at the request of the third countries, through the expert facility which has been made available for the long-term rehabilitation of the fisheries sector in the affected countries. on amendments nos 3, 18 and 19: again we agree with the spirit of these proposals, but the actions being proposed are provided for by the monitoring mechanism contemplated by the regulation. providing for such detailed and specific amendments within the text of the regulation itself could, however, have the effect of making the regulation cumbersome and too difficult to implement. we are therefore of the view that there is no need for these specific amendments. we can accept amendments 4 and 5. on amendment no 6, we have no problem with the substance and we are willing to look at this change with the presidency and the council and expect to be able to overcome the legal and technical difficulties that may arise with introducing changes to a title at a late stage. on amendment no 7: there again we agree with the spirit, but we have difficulty in accepting the amendment because it goes beyond the scope of this regulation. on amendments nos 8, 9, 11 and 21: again, we agree with the spirit, but we feel that this is not the place to address such wider issues relating to the humanitarian assistance programmes. what this regulation enables us to do is to take a very concrete and specific action within the fisheries sector and more specifically within the fifg regulation. other initiatives will follow, not only to meet the overall humanitarian needs but also for the fisheries sector, but unfortunately they cannot be addressed in this regulation. on amendments 10 and 12: the coming into force of these amendments to regulation 2792/99 cannot be made dependent on specific requests being made by affected countries. i would point out that this regulation guarantees the participation of third countries and i refer the honourable members to article 1 of the current regulation, which amends article 7 of the basic regulation and which states that our actions are to be in accordance with the third countries' request. on amendments nos 13, 14 and 15: we agree with the spirit of these amendments and we will take them up with the presidency and the council to see how they can best be reflected in the regulation. on amendment no 16: the regulation already provides in a number of instances for the assurance that fishing activity will be carried out in a sustainable manner. we therefore feel that this amendment has already been taken into account in the regulation. we can accept amendment no 17, but we would like to limit the scope of the action to small-scale fishing vessels, as defined in article 3 of council regulation 2371/2002 (the cfp reform regulation). on amendment no 20: we feel that this point is sufficiently covered by the provision under which the vessels to be transferred should be for the benefit of the affected fishing communities and so this amendment is not required. on amendment no 22: the commission has difficulty accepting this amendment: while technically it may be sound, its scope clearly undermines the spirit with which the regulation is being adopted.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i know that the commission proposal is based on the best of good intentions and we support good intentions in the wake of the awful tsunami disaster. the trouble is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. 20 000 vessels under 12 metres in size were destroyed by the tsunami in the affected countries. the commission proposal is to send somewhere between 150 and 200 old, redundant vessels from the mediterranean to help replace the 20 000 that were destroyed. it is, as the commission has pointed out, no more than a symbolic gesture. it is nevertheless a very expensive symbolic gesture. the cost has been put at roughly eur 9 million, with an additional eur 400 000 to pay for transporting these vessels to the affected part of the indian ocean. therefore we are talking about roughly eur 47 000 per vessel with the costs to be met entirely by member states. i am reliably told from experts on the ground in the indian ocean that replacement vessels of exactly the size required can be built for eur 2 000 each. for the same amount of money that we propose member states should spend, we could build 3 500 fishing vessels. this would be a much more meaningful response. the commission's response to the amendments tabled by the various groups this morning would nevertheless suggest that the entire focus remains on this regulation to transfer vessels. i would suggest that the commission refocuses and looks more closely at sending the things we can provide quickly, such as skilled experts, fishermen, carpenters, engineers, blacksmiths, boatbuilders, and the money to get people over there, as quickly as possible, to start rebuilding the kind of vessels they need to help replace the ones destroyed, instead of this nonsense of sending redundant, old, decrepit boats from the mediterranean as a symbolic gesture.
mr president, this is a very difficult one to call. no-one begrudges help to the people affected by the tsunami. parliament, in its resolution on the tragedy, made special mention of those engaged in fishing, calling on the commission to examine ways in which tangible aid in the form of vessels, gear, technical expertise and raw materials can be directed towards the affected communities. but there have been too many examples in the past of well-intentioned aid being left to rot because it was not suited to local conditions, or because there was not the wherewithal or the expertise to make use of it. if decommissioned vessels are to be exported, this must be under stringent conditions as to suitability, processed in accordance with the full assessment of needs, only upon request by the country concerned and accompanied by appropriate assistance. because of concerns about distortions of local economies and the depletion of fish stocks, we also seek some further reassurances. first, about where the ownership of vessels will rest and second that this is purely an emergency measure and will not open the back door to a wider export scheme. given such reassurance, and on the understanding that both the commission and the council will take our reservations seriously, it is possible to support the proposal. the commissioner has made some commitment in this regard, but i am disappointed by the reluctance to incorporate much by way of amendment into the regulation itself. i would urge the commission and the council to take a much more comprehensive approach to rebuilding fishing communities. the swift commitment of support to projects like that offered by the maritime rescue institute in stonehaven, scotland, is just one example, and it is much more directly in tune with parliament's earlier call.
mr president, it can sometimes be difficult to explain to european tax payers, our constituents, why it makes sense to use their money in order to destroy vessels that may well be seaworthy and which could be used in some way, even for non-fishing purposes. however, that does not mean that these vessels are suitable for use in any area. the more i have looked into the actual situation in the tsunami-hit countries, the more sceptical i have become about the value of this particular proposal. it may be a symbolic gesture and it may be that a small number of vessels could be used or converted, but i do not think that will be of major assistance to areas that were devastated. i support the amendments tabled by the various groups. i very much regret that the commission has not agreed to support them. if this proposal is adopted in some way by the council, i believe that the amendments would bring about very considerable improvements, not only to in a practical sense, but to its intention and spirit. a measure such as this should be looked at as an enabling measure; not to enable member states to actively offload unsuitable vessels to the these countries, but to enable those countries that have been affected to request certain vessels to be transferred to their areas if they are suitable for use or conversion.
mr president, we were all shocked by the physical and emotional devastation wreaked by the tsunami across south-east asia on boxing day 2004. it will be some time before the full extent of the loss and damage suffered by the fishing industry is known. but severe losses and/or damage to fishing vessels of all types have been reported from countries affected by the tsunami disaster, in particular sri lanka, thailand, indonesia and india. sri lanka, for instance, has lost nearly 70% of its entire fishing fleet, according to a recent report by the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations. most of the fishing in the area is carried out by thousands of small boats of around 4.8 m in length. as well as the loss of fishermen's lives and boats and gear, harbours, production plants and freezing plants all suffered extensive damage. normal fishing activity cannot resume without intervention and investment. understandably, we want to help. the urgency before us today relates to transferring vessels from eu member states to countries hit by the tsunami. the proposal has been strongly criticised, as we hear this morning, as being inappropriate because the climate and fishing practices of eu countries vary from those of south-east asia. i can understand why concern has been expressed over how suitable eu boats may be for fishing in south-east asia. however, i welcome the proposal before us today on the basis that it allows for the transfer of boats that meet the restricted criteria and that might be useful. i also welcome amendments tabled on behalf of the pse group by mr kindermann, both singly and jointly with other groups, in particular the amendments that ensure that adverse effects on fisheries resources and the local economy are avoided, that the transfer is accompanied by any appropriate training, that boats are suitable and that the transfer meets the requirements of the fao's needs assessments and is requested by the third country. on that basis, i am happy to support the urgency and i call on colleagues to do likewise.
mr president, i would just like to make two points. firstly, while the commission is trying to find innovative solutions to an unprecedented disaster, i would urge it to remain pragmatic about the impact of this gesture. this proposal is well-intentioned. i appreciate we all want to do all we can to help the hundreds and thousands of people who have lost their homes and their livelihoods because of the tsunami but it is important that this is additional help and not replacement help or help in kind and that this does not count towards the eur 350 million that the eu has already committed to this. secondly, i would like to ask the commission to look at the best use for the larger decommissioned boats. the fishing communities in india and thailand were equally devastated and i believe that the more developed fishing industry in these countries may be better placed and better equipped, to use the larger vessels, so this idea should be explored. obviously, these boats will not be of any use to the individual, local fishermen, but they could be used by cooperatives or sme businesses. it is important that all the countries are treated equally and that we explore the right avenue for them.
mr president, on a point of order. at the beginning of this debate, the commission informed us that it would not accept most of the amendments that have been agreed between the political parties in this house. that now means that instead of sending meaningful help to the devastated fishing communities by way of skilled experts, fishermen, engineers, boat-builders and money, we are going to send one or two old, redundant boats at massive cost as a purely political gesture. that is not helpful. the fao has written to the chairman of the committee on fisheries to explain that sri lanka and indonesia reject this help. they do not want these boats. under these circumstances we should think again, before the final resolution is voted upon. (applause) i would suggest that we are not in the business of political gestures; we are in the business of giving real, meaningful help to the fishing communities that have lost their livelihoods and their lives. meaningful help does not mean sending one or two redundant boats from the mediterranean. i hope that we will therefore reject the commission proposal. (applause)
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, as i understand it, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra proposes removing the word 'deplore' as part of a deal that maintains the support for the brazilian initiative in this paragraph. the socialist group accepts that proposal. i have just spoken to the president of the subcommittee on human rights and i appeal to other groups to support it because it will enable this report to be agreed in full.
mr president, i should like to point out, on behalf of the socialist group and my colleague, mrs valenciano martínez-orozco, that we believe there may be an error on the voting list concerning amendment 15, tabled by the ppe-de group. this amendment mentions the recent declaration of the donors conference for colombia held in cartagena. also involved are the identical amendments 4, 19 and 23, tabled by the socialist and alde groups. these concern support for the recommendations of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights in colombia. these are clearly not mutually exclusive. it would be quite wrong for amendments 4, 19 and 23 to fall if amendment 15 is adopted, as the voting list suggests. the services have advised me that this problem can be resolved by voting on the pse and alde amendments as recital ia (new), rather than as amendments to recital i. i ask for your support on this, mr president. in conclusion, the office of the un high commissioner for human rights is established in bogota by agreement with the colombian government. it is actually funded by the european union. i hope the entire house will reaffirm its support for the work of the office by supporting the ppe-de amendments and the pse/alde amendments. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra agrees that it should be voted separately, although he advises his group to vote against. i regret that, but i am grateful for his support in the technical matters concerning these amendments.
mr president, could i ask the verts/ale group to accept this amendment as a supplement to the paragraph and not as a substitute for it?
in writing. i warmly welcome this proposal to outlaw sharp practices by rogue traders. many of my constituents have suffered as a result of the kinds of behaviour this will hopefully bring to an end. for example, one of the practices targeted by the legislation is prize draw swindles, where consumers and encouraged - often via mobile phone text messaging - to ring a premium-rate number for a prize that does not exist. this new legislation will overhaul disparate national rules across the 25 nations of the eu and make it easier for consumers to take legal action against unduly aggressive or misleading selling methods. it will also introduce a "general duty" to trade fairly.
mr president, i voted for this proposal, but i have to admit it was a difficult call to make. in the end, i voted for it because i see it as giving the commission permission to investigate the transfer of vessels to the tsunami region; it does not mean, even with this vote, that they have to go ahead with it. i insist that the commission take the fao advice before taking any action; that they only respond to requests from tsunami countries and do not impose the transfer of vessels on any particular country; and that they carry out a full cost/benefit analysis of shipping boats to the tsunami region, as opposed to building boats in that region. today, we have given the commission the green light to change the regulations. what we have not said is that, even if they change the regulations, they should necessarily then start to send the vessels. that decision should be based on other considerations.
mr president, like my colleague, mr david martin, i found this to be a difficult vote. i voted against this resolution with a heavy heart but i did so for practical and sensible reasons. i was very disappointed by the commissioner's lacklustre explanation and her rationale for rejecting parliament's amendments. they were amendments that would have moved the vote in the right direction. nevertheless, i believe that the proposal was a flawed gesture from the eu and not the sort of aid we should be intent on sending. i was in the north and east of sri lanka recently. i saw at first hand the devastation. i saw boats ruined and lives devastated, but i saw nothing to make me believe that discarded, old, unwanted european vessels would be of use to them. nor can i believe it is economic to try to transfer them: a few hundred boats to replace thousands that were lost. the people of sri lanka and elsewhere in south asia need real help. eight-and-a-half weeks on from 26 december, here we are offering a few clapped-out boats. i believe in real aid; helping the people to rebuild their lives themselves. give them the tools to build their own boats, suitable vessels. lend them the labour, by all means. help them make nets for continued fishing and everything else that they need. at the moment that aid is not getting through in the way that it should. we should not be in the business of just making gestures, however well-meaning they are.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal as amended, substantially improved, by the european parliament. in particular, my own amendments, which were supported by a large majority make it clear that this should be only part of a wide range of necessary measures to aid the fishing communities around the indian ocean. the challenge laid down by the european parliament is to the european commission to change its mind and accept our amended proposal, and to the council of ministers to follow the strong lead which we have given in this matter.
in writing. i am very much in favour of the work of the unhcr in geneva, but i do think sometimes we should proceed a little more carefully, engaging in real versus resolutionary politics. the european union had a human rights dialogue with north korea modelled on our human rights dialogue with china. this was suspended in 2003 when the eu sponsored in geneva a highly critical human rights resolution on north korea without even informing our interlocutors in advance. at a recent meeting i attended in geneva on the issue of human rights in north korea, in the presence of the special rapporteur for north korea, we were told we must have a new resolution next month because there was no dialogue, something we lost with the initial resolution. it might have been worth considering whether a real ongoing dialogue might do more to assist improving human rights than merely passing resolutions.
in writing. on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, can i stress that we strongly support human rights and the call for free elections in zimbabwe. that is why we specifically support, in today's resolution, condemnation of the failure of the eu's resolution on zimbabwe at the unchr last year, calling for the eu once again to co-sponsor a resolution condemning human rights abuses in zimbabwe in geneva this year. today we voted against epp amendment 12 for the technical reason that it simply duplicates these political positions, which were already contained in parliament's text.
in writing. i welcome this resolution and the support it gives to g8 countries in their plans for up to 100% debt relief to the world's poorest countries. it is important that money for debt cancellation comes from new funds and the diversion of existing resources for development. to this end debt relief must be treated and reported separately from aid. developing countries must be encouraged to use funds saved from debt repayments to finance core services such as health and education without which it will be practically impossible to achieve the millennium development goals. in this context it is important that the poorest countries are not subject to undue pressure to liberalise their service sector in reciprocity for eu trade liberalisation.
mr president, i want to give an explanation of vote on the commission's legislative work programme. i did not vote to support this report because, while much of the content of the work programme is acceptable, i was concerned about what is not there. i am concerned that the eu continues to overregulate; it continues to produce legislation that is too detailed, imposes too much red tape on enterprise, and is significantly harming the prosperity of europe and its member states, including, of course, the united kingdom. i am also concerned that we do not see serious enough measures put in place in this work programme to try and get serious financial control over the eu budget. it is not acceptable that, for nearly a decade, the eu has failed to produce a budget that is capable of being signed off by its own auditors, and that over 80% of the eu budget is not properly accounted for. it is taxpayers' money, and i would have liked to have seen a commission work programme that took this scandalous situation much more seriously and proposed action to deal with it. i would also very much like to see a commission work programme that considered ways in which powers could be returned to member states, to decentralise power in the european union, rather than driving forward more integration with the euro and the european constitution, both of which i firmly oppose. one thing i am pleased about is that amendment 64, the amendment on cyprus, proposed by the liberal group, was rejected. that would have sought to increase economic ties with the unrecognised regime in northern cyprus. it is important that we give financial support to northern cyprus, but that must be through the recognised democratic government of the republic of cyprus. it would not be acceptable to have direct links with a regime that is not recognised. the reason for the embargo is the initial invasion by turkey that took place so many years ago. this is not an international boycott: it is simply that the regime there is not capable of issuing export certificates. therefore, the embargo is a reflection of the illegal nature of the invasion by turkey. that is why i cannot vote to lift the embargo, but i would support legitimate financial support being given to northern cyprus but only with the consent and cooperation of, and via, the democratic, recognised, lawful government of cyprus.
in writing. my eplp colleagues and i abstained on the final vote as we did not wish to vote against the whole resolution. we believe that the commission work programme takes forward the lisbon agenda and details some necessary environmental action.
in writing. i welcome the commission's intention to promote policies designed to get the european economy moving. however, i am not convinced that the programme presented to parliament strikes an appropriate balance between being "pro-business" while continuing to promote social inclusion and sustainable development. economic, social and environmental policy do not appear to be addressed in an integrated way. for example, i am concerned that no proposals to promote equality of opportunities between men and women or to reduce economic disparities between regions are included in the work programme. i also find it unacceptable that the commission does not foresee any legislative action in the priority area of climate change.
mr president, i am sorry to raise this again but, given that this issue was raised, i thought, as indicated in the voting list, that the matter had been referred to the authorities for a ruling. we expected - perhaps wrongly - that the ruling would be made prior to the vote being taken. mr president, are you telling me that the ruling was that paragraph 89, as written, was in any event admissible?
on behalf of the group.– mr president, it almost beggars belief that, in 2005, we can still have tinpot dictators seizing control of countries based on nothing more than being the sons of their fathers but, sadly, that is reality in togo. the good news, as mrs trautmann has emphasised, is that the economic community of west african states responded very quickly and positively. they insisted on the withdrawal of all their ambassadors, they applied trade sanctions, they banned arms sales and stopped issuing visas both for their own citizens to visit togo and vice versa, for togolese citizens to visit their countries. that is a step in the right direction. we need the rest of the international community to follow that example. the european community needs to support the democratic forces which, i am glad to say, exist inside togo. we need to give them encouragement; we need to urge the army to stay in its barracks. as mrs trautmann has said, we need to try and work with mr natchaba to establish a situation whereby he can return to his country and organise fair and free elections. the idea that this coup d'etat is popular is killed by the fact that, on seizing power, the president has had to ban all public demonstrations for two months. he has closed eight television and radio stations and has made sure that every other voice of opposition is oppressed. this is a coup in every sense of the word and we should show no sympathy for it.
mr president, as we have all heard, the state of emergency was declared on 1 february by the king. he sacked the government and assumed direct powers himself. this follows on from a decade-long conflict, which has cost 11 000 lives. the nepalese people have suffered a legacy of human rights abuses, both from the security forces and from the maoist rebels. they have suffered torture, detention, disappearances and unlawful killing. communication links with the outside world have been severed and, hidden from public scrutiny, the risk of further abuse escalates, according to amnesty international. radio news broadcasts have been shut down, foreign news channels taken off air and local media barred from publishing news or commentary without prior approval. in the immediate aftermath, telephone lines were severed, and some mobile phone services have not resumed. approximately 3 000 people are currently under house arrest according to nepalese government sources. the people who have been arrested are either senior members of the ousted government, human rights defenders or student and trade union leaders. access to them has been restricted. they should either be charged or tried under due process of the law, or released forthwith. the eu and the member states provide more than eur 100 million in aid per year. all military assistance should be stopped now. emphasis should be put on a multiparty democracy, conflict mitigation and alleviating poverty and suffering. a military solution is not the answer.
mr president, i would like to welcome to the chamber mr desmond de silva qc, who is assistant secretary-general of the united nations and the deputy special prosecutor for the special court in sierra leone for war crimes. he is here to listen to our debate on sierra leone.
mr president, it is with deep regret that we witnessed the recent events in nepal. it cannot be overlooked that king gyanendra's actions on 1 february were a sad day for democracy in nepal. neither can we ignore the actions of the terrorists. the european parliament cannot just stand by. nepal, as we have heard, is a desperately poor nation with an unfortunate history of conflict and has recently suffered under terrorist attacks from the maoist rebels. this himalayan country faces several problems, including the issue of refugees from bhutan. the dissolution of the nepalese parliament does not help the situation of the common nepalese people. on the contrary, the nepalese need stability and democracy in order to prosper economically and politically. the most immediate actions that we demand of the nepalese authorities are: the lifting of the state of emergency; the release of all political prisoners under house arrest or detention in prison; and the lifting of the media embargo, to allow freedom of the press, national and international. in the medium and long term, we must also examine the ways that the eu and other international bodies can help. so, i ask the commission and the council to support the following three suggestions. first, that the eu look very closely into our conflict resolution programmes and identify other innovative solutions to help reduce poverty. this is conducive to reducing the vulnerability of the nepalese to the maoist rebels. secondly, i would request that the member states impose sanctions in their bilateral programmes. that would send a clear message that member states do not approve of what has happened. however, we must be careful not to penalise the ordinary people, as that would alienate us from helping them. thirdly, we must look at the diplomatic efforts we could make. that could include arbitrating between the monarchy and other political parties, so as to encourage them both to the negotiating table, where steps towards multi-party democracy could be made. furthermore, we need to explore the possibility of sending a neutral third party, such as javier solana, the eu high representative, or the united nations, to formulate a road map to peace and democracy in nepal. it might even be helpful to send a delegation from parliament. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of the restoration of fundamental freedoms in nepal, and the role we can play to encourage and support a democratic future. however, the eu must act with caution: there are dangers in this unstable time of aggravating a fragile situation. we must remember nepal's fairly precarious geographical situation between india, pakistan and china. so, this small country is very significant for regional security.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs gill on her excellent speech. we have heard that the king has declared a state of emergency, dismissed the government, assumed direct power and suspended civil rights indefinitely. since then the king has continued to suppress the media and potential opposition, detaining thousands of people, including politicians, student leaders, human rights activists, journalists, professors and other important public figures. a few have been released since then. nepal is relatively new to the concept of multiparty democracy, which it established only in 1990 with the framework of a constitutional monarchy. i enjoy and respect constitutional monarchies. at this time, nepal reinstated previously banned political parties and increased the civil liberties of the nepalese people. unfortunately, its attempt at democracy has been fraught with difficulties. over the last 15 years, the credibility of the nepalese politicians has been repeatedly undermined with allegations of corruption and self-interest. they refuse to put nepalese interests first; they have been putting their own first. politicians have proved incapable of ridding nepal of a group of so-called 'maoist insurgents' that was launched in 1996 to bring down the monarchy and the regime. the ceasefire they attempted to negotiate with the insurgents broke down in august 2003. the king's recent actions exemplify someone who, on the one hand, wishes to rid nepal of terrorism and, on the other, wishes to bring stability to a country whose democratic actors have failed to achieve it. he has decided to take matters into his own hands. however, in doing so, he has played into the hands of rebel forces and has infringed upon the very rights he was purportedly aiming to protect. nepal cannot be allowed to regress to a system whereby the king is undisputed ruler and the rights and lives of his subjects are in the hands of one man. the recent chain of events is extremely worrying and reminiscent of the nepal of the rana oligarchs, a nepal whose human rights record the world had hoped was finally going to be laid to rest. we in the international community must encourage the king to undo his recent actions. if necessary, this may involve suspending military aid to nepal until the king finally realises that the fight against terror is an international struggle which is best dealt with in an open and democratic society, as opposed to the oppressive, closed, authoritarian state which he is sadly attempting to recreate.
mr president, sierra leone, nigeria and liberia are all members of the acp and signatories to the cotonou agreement. this agreement secures good governance. however, sierra leone is ranked as the least-developed country in the world. sadly, the criteria set out by the cotonou agreement as essential to long-term development could also be used as a list of what sierra leone lacks most. in january 2002 sierra leone saw the end of a decade-long, savage civil war. the conflict in sierra leone cost tens of thousands of lives and the displacement of millions. charles ghankay taylor, the former president of liberia, has recently been indicted by the special court for sierra leone with actively supporting the revolutionary united front which was responsible for the widespread atrocities in sierra leone. according to amnesty international, taylor's crimes included the systematic killing of civilians, amputation, rape, other forms of sexual violence, the use of child soldiers, abductions and forced labour. the special court of sierra leone created by the international community and which the eu supported with some eur 800 000 last year, has charged taylor with 17 counts of war crimes, crimes against humanity and other serious violations of international humanitarian law. however, nigeria has given taylor asylum. international law now cries out that those suspected of committing war crimes or crimes against humanity must be investigated and brought to justice. under the 1949 geneva convention the nigerian authorities are obliged to arrest taylor and to surrender him to the special court of sierra leone. there is no legal base whatsoever for taylor to be protected by president obasanjo of nigeria. if taylor remains in nigeria, however, it is doubtful that this man accused of heinous crimes will ever face trial. moreover, if he seeks sanctuary in another acp country we should bring the full force of the cotonou agreement to bear on that country.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, africa has for too long been torn by civil strife, hunger, economic mismanagement and blatant corruption. it is now, at last, beginning to get its own house in order with regional blocs and continent-wide supranational institutions committed to observing international human rights law, such as economic community of west africa (ecowas) and the african union. charles taylor, as a former warlord, ruled liberia brutally between 1997 and 2003 as a bloody dictator, sanctioning rape and summary executions at the end of that country's 14 years of civil war, but he was forced into exile as part of a peace-making deal mediated by nigeria. during taylor's reign, ecowas imposed sanctions on liberia because of the abuses he perpetrated. in power, he supported the revolutionary united front in neighbouring sierra leone, which, in alliance with renegade soldiers, overthrew president kabbah in 1997, having wreaked havoc in the country since 1991, with tens of thousands of civilians brutally slaughtered, and which made use of child soldiers. the war crimes tribunal in freetown, sierra leone, is a hybrid mix of national and international justice, accepted by all parties and with un backing, and aims to be a model for other war courts not mandated by chapter 7 un resolutions. taylor was indicted for war crimes by this court in 2003, but nigeria is refusing to extradite him, claiming he has sovereign immunity and benefits from the asylum deal they agreed to. a children's rights group called focus is now calling for his surrender to the court in sierra leone, directly blaming taylor for the limb amputation of thousands of women and children in sierra leone, as well as for ordering bloody, cross-border raids into neighbouring guinea. we now know that sovereign immunity no longer applies for war crimes, but the group has also pointed out that taylor has breached the terms of his asylum by interfering in liberian politics ahead of the elections scheduled there for october and by financing parties sympathetic to him with money he obtained corruptly through the diamond trade when in power as president. he presumably hopes that, with a change of government, he will be allowed back. president obasanjo of nigeria is currently chairman of the african union, and his country must set an example to the international community, and end impunity for bloody tyrants, by handing taylor over.
mr president, i just wanted to make it absolutely clear how the special court was established. therefore, i propose that we amend the first citation of the joint resolution to read: 'having regard to the special court for sierra leone, established through an agreement between the united nations and the government of sierra leone pursuant to un security council resolution 1315 of 14 august 2000, with the aim of putting on trial those accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity and violations of international law committed in sierra leone,'. this is a tidying-up exercise. furthermore, because of the importance of this issue to the international community, the commission and the member states, i should like to request a roll-call on the final vote.
mr president, is there any reason why the commission cannot deal with both the services directive and software patents at 6 p.m. tomorrow? this would allow us to keep the serious and ongoing issue of the health workers detained in libya on the agenda for wednesday.
mr president, this concerns the last decision you made. i wish to make two points. as coordinator for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the question of the internal market for services, i hope that first of all we will have the first opportunity ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, this is new. we do not have a point of order, we have a new procedure. we have now agreed to combine two statements and i would like to ask … (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would be very much against removing from the agenda a debate on the health workers detained in libya. indeed, my understanding is that there is no longer a request to remove that item from the agenda.
mr president, i should like to make the point i was going to make earlier. could i say to you first of all that as political group coordinator for the committee most affected by the new procedure for tomorrow, you should have allowed me to speak earlier. i hope that the discussion on the internal market for services will be taken first and that we have enough time. last thursday, when we had a special meeting with the rapporteur, all the committee members signed an oral question. it was not in time but we want that statement in full. the second point is crucial and i feel i was perfectly entitled to make it when everyone was here. as a number of colleagues have indicated, the statement on the computer-implemented inventions directive must also involve the council. the issue at stake is that the council reached an agreement today. you completely ignored that, mr president. you did not indicate whether the council would be available. that was the point that i wanted to put to you. the coordinators and senior people involved in the discussions have detailed knowledge, and if you are going to stop them commenting on changes of procedure, you are not doing justice to the members of this house when they are discussing changes to the agenda.
mr president, this house has a very proud record of supporting the peace process in northern ireland and of supporting both the irish and united kingdom governments in trying to achieve a lasting solution to the difficulties there. it is the view of both the irish and uk governments that the only remaining obstacle to peace is the criminality and paramilitary activity of the ira, a statement that was greeted with some surprise by ira circles. however, the events of the last few months – the raid on the northern bank, the murder of robert mccartney, the intimidation of witnesses, the evidence of money laundering – suggest there is extensive criminality, which has now become part and parcel of the northern ireland scene. i hope that this parliament will send a message of support to both governments and tell all parties that criminality has no place whatsoever in political action. criminality imprisons people, it does not liberate them. (applause)
mr president, as has already been mentioned, this week we celebrate international women’s day, but i also hope that during this week parliament will take time to help raise awareness of an illness that affects more than 14 million women across europe: endometriosis. this week is also endometriosis awareness week. i know we get fed up with weeks for this and weeks for that, but this horrible disease is too little talked about and too often dismissed. the average time for diagnosing it is going up: it now stands at nine years. it affects 14 million women across europe. for this disease there is still no known cause and no cure. it wrecks lives and families. if nothing else makes us think, perhaps the fact that over eur 30 billion is lost to our economy every year might make us think. there will be a written declaration on this open later this week. i hope colleagues will take the opportunity to sign it and support raising awareness of this horrible disease.
mr president, while endorsing the last point, i also wish to emphasise the points made by mr mitchell. the world health organization has issued one of its severest warnings ever on an imminent flu pandemic, likely to be on a scale not seen since 1917, and yet parliament remains mute. we asked for this matter to be placed on the agenda of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety; it is not on the agenda this week. we asked for it to be placed on the plenary agenda; it is not on the agenda this week. the united states took action six months ago. member states are beginning to take what amounts to inadequate action now. mr president, will you write to the commission and request a progress report on the action being taken by the commission and member states, and attach the response to the minutes of this sitting? could you also ensure that, through your good offices and mine, pressure is exerted on the commission to make a statement the next time parliament meets in plenary? (applause)
mr president, i should like to draw the attention of the house to the mccartney family in belfast and pay tribute to their strength in their response to the recent murder of their brother and son robert mccartney. many of us have been touched by the strength of this family. this murder must be condemned by all right-thinking people. it is not enough for sinn fein and the ira to say they are going to make excuses or give up one person or five people. everyone guilty of this attack should be given up to the forces of law and order in belfast. there is no other way to do this. you cannot have half a law; you cannot apologise for the law. the law is the law. that is what we have to recognise as a parliament and as people. i urge you to exert maximum pressure to show that this parliament is totally opposed to these ongoing attacks and murders. i have suffered far too much of that in my own constituency. thankfully things are much better now.
president of the european investment bank. mr president, let me first of all thank you for continuing the tradition which was established in the previous parliament. as mr lipietz said earlier, it is only five years since the european investment bank was invited to enter into dialogue with the european parliament. i can only be happy about that. the european investment bank is not formally an institution of the european union. its shareholders are the member states and we are accountable to our shareholders, i.e. to national governments and parliaments; but on the other hand, the european investment bank was created by the treaty and its mission - as has been pointed out - is to support financially the political objectives of the european union. it seems to me therefore normal that the bank should be asked to explain itself to the elected representatives of the european citizens and i can confirm, as mr lipietz has already pointed out, that this dialogue is productive. there is no doubt that in many areas your assembly can now judge the eib more positively, because a number of recommendations prepared by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and adopted by your assembly have been implemented and have made progress, especially in terms of governance, transparency and quality of control. i attended the annual meeting of the presidents of the multilateral development banks last week and was pleased to see that the eib is now in many respects a model for other international financial institutions. this dialogue is productive. i think we should pursue it with different commissions. i will not go into the governance and transparency issues i have just mentioned. i would simply say to mrs wortmann-kool that we are still open to the question of prudential supervision. no other international financial institution is subject to this type of supervision for a very simple reason: the main purpose of prudential supervision is the protection of depositors. the international financial institutions have no depositors. but we're still open. parliament had suggested that the european central bank should supervise the eib. the member states have not wanted to give this competence to the ecb. in any case, i can tell you that we have decided, on a voluntary basis, to apply the new rules of basel ii. so if we are ever subject to supervision, we will be able to show the competent authority that we have applied the rules in this matter. a few words about our activities in the european union. i have noted the particular emphasis by several members of this house on our contribution to the lisbon strategy. the european council in lisbon asked the eib to contribute to the financing of certain areas considered to be of the highest priority for this strategy. and you know how, in the lisbon strategy, increasing investment in research and training is obviously a key element. so after lisbon, we launched a programme we call 'i2i': the innovation 2010 initiative. under this programme we have already signed loans for eur 24 billion. to be more precise: seven billion for training, ten billion for research and development and seven billion for the dissemination of new technologies. we intend to continue along this path and, as mr lipietz has said, to make a contribution which goes beyond speeches and declarations of principle, which goes as far as financing some very concrete projects, while trying, as mrs van den burg has stressed, to implement new financing instruments. we have already adopted new types of risk-sharing loans under the i2i programme. we are currently working with the commission on formulae which would enable us to go even further in this direction, to take more risks, since these are areas which by their nature require the financer to accept a share of the risk. i also note the emphasis that many of you have placed on small and mediumsized enterprises. i see that my time is running out, so i will answer very briefly. i confirm that, as regards global loans - a subject which has already been discussed in committee - we are continuing to renegotiate the contracts with the intermediary banks to ensure that they actually pass on to the final beneficiary the financial advantage we are providing them. i also note the emphasis on microcredit. i note environmental concerns and i can assure you that in the report we submit to the board of directors on all projects we are asked to finance, there is a section - sometimes very detailed, if the project warrants it - on the environmental impact of the project we are asked to finance. a few words, in conclusion, on our activities outside the european union. we must place them in the context of the new approach of the european union to foreign policy. as mrs zimmer has just said, we need to combine the resources of the commission, the member states and the european investment bank more effectively to make our development aid more effective and to be more directly linked to the pursuit of the millennium development goals. i simply say to mr seppänen that we are in full agreement with what he has suggested with regard to the guarantee fund. as for the rebalancing and the timetable, it is not for us to decide but for the council, which gives us mandates for different regions. mr president, while i would like to apologize for having exceeded my speaking time somewhat, i would simply like to conclude by reiterating our wish to continue this dialogue with parliament. we are doing this with the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we have just begun with the committee on development. we are at the disposal of the various committees of the parliament to examine these questions in greater depth.
i thank you, mr maystadt, and your institution for the work that it does.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0012/2005) from the committee on industry, research and energy, on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (rapporteur: esko seppänen).
member of the commission. mr president, i agree with the sentiment underlying these questions: how to find solutions to the challenges as a response to our kyoto obligations, to high oil and gas prices, and how to deal with europe’s increasing reliance on imported hydrocarbon. these are key issues for the new commission, as i have already indicated to parliament. the whole point of a coherent energy policy is to develop a package of mutually reinforcing policies that together achieve the three core objectives: competitiveness, sustainable development and security of supply. let me first of all address the issue of our external dependency on oil. the latest oil price increases are a strong reminder that the oil market remains volatile. it is clear that the current and future competition for hydrocarbons resources does and will continue to affect the global security of supply and economic growth. my concern is even higher when we look at energy forecasts. if nothing is done, energy imports by 2030 could amount to 70% of total needs. we should of course continue our policy of diversification and our dialogue with the producer countries. however, because of the degree of dependency, the european union has little room for manoeuvre to influence energy supply. in addition, our own energy sources are either low or, in certain cases, less competitive. it is therefore essentially on the demand side that the eu can and should intervene. that is why i believe that the union should concentrate on guiding and steering demand. against this backdrop, the european commission has already committed itself to actions designed to diversify the different energy sources, to promote energy efficiency and support renewables. all those actions point to a reduction in the use of hydrocarbons in our society and a decrease in their share of the energy mix. as i have already announced, i will continue and strengthen the eu’s actions in these fields. i will make a special effort on energy efficiency. stronger action on energy efficiency will not only benefit our security of supply, but also other key objectives including those linked to the lisbon agenda. this spring i will present a green paper on energy efficiency to outline my ideas. although i understand the intention of honourable members to cross-subsidise renewable energy, i am afraid that it will be difficult to judge what ‘windfall’ profits are, or what ‘too much involvement in enterprise policy’ is. it will also be difficult to tell companies how to spend their profits. at the same time i am following the advice of honourable members. i have also to point out that major oil companies, such as bp, shell, repsol and total, have already started substantial research, development and deployment activities in renewable energies and co2 capture and storage. in my discussions with them i always stress the importance of their playing an increasingly active role in this area. in my further contacts with the oil companies active in the european union area i will, therefore, strongly encourage their commitment to research into and development of renewable energies and co2 capture and storage. having said that, i have to stress that the european union has in recent years established a framework for the promotion of renewables that is unique in the world, with directives on the promotion of green electricity and biofuels. a spin-off from these directives has been the development of support systems in most member states and a continuation of the leading role of the eu in eco-technology. moreover, the commission has been actively supporting research into and the demonstration and use of alternative forms of energy. this is expected to continue in the coming years. in this respect, i have to mention in particular the co-financing of the research and development activities, in particular the financial support for the research and technological development phases, and for the demonstration of large-scale installations and the penetration of these new technologies into the market. such financial support is currently made available under the sixth framework programme for research and technological development. in this context, the proposal of the commission regarding the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, which is planned to be adopted in april 2005, will open the interinstitutional debate on the key european union priorities for research and technological development for the coming years. now i would like to come to the issue of environmental goals and competitiveness. the european commitments, not least those related to climate change, have been translated into a number of operational targets in energy policy that at the same time promote the competitiveness of our industry. therefore, the environmental goals are fully integrated into the energy policy objectives and instruments. one good example is directive 2001/77/ec on green electricity, which has generated an extra effort with regard to the production and installation of windmills. a significant number of jobs has been created in this new and rapidly growing industry, where some european countries are now world market leaders. another example is the directive on biofuels. the production of these fuels not only contributes to meeting our kyoto targets, but also has a positive effect on rural development and therefore on our global economy. i think that the most important direct effect on our economy will, however, come from strong policy action to increase energy efficiency throughout our society. it is estimated that 20% of our total energy use could be saved in a cost-efficient way. not only would energy efficiency save money, it will also create jobs in europe and be of benefit to the environment. that is why the commission has made eco-technologies one of the political priorities in the lisbon agenda. it is my conviction that environmental goals, security of supply and competitiveness go very well together. the commission has proved in the past that it is ready to take action in this field. i certainly intend to make a real effort to reinforce these policies. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, in this debate i am only too happy to declare an interest in shareholdings in several oil and gas companies. profits are good, as a measure of the success of enterprises and as a means of investment in the future in research and development and replacement capacity. higher oil prices make more money for governments, not oil companies, as tax is the biggest component in road fuel costs to the consumer. so perhaps this question should be addressed to the member states instead. we should beware of directing investment and interfering in companies' decisions on investment. governments and public bodies are not very successful at picking winners. i wonder whether those who seek to tell companies what to do with their profits would be as quick to offer to share losses in the future. this is knocking on an open door, because the companies are already investing very substantial sums in alternative and successor technologies in researching a whole range of different technologies. they are doing it for obvious supply and commercial reasons. when oil and gas run out, these companies want to be supplying alternative and successor fuels. shell and bp are investing huge sums of money in photovoltaics and wind and a whole range of synthetic fuel technologies. perhaps colleagues should take comfort from the labour minister who says that windfall taxes are not on the agenda. they are not a sound way of proceeding. let market mechanisms be the way to encourage renewable and alternative sources of energy.
mr president, i listened to the commissioner with increasing hope that this debate would lead to something more than the warm words and hot air that we have seen on this subject so far. coming from scotland, i have a vested interest in this subject. we have just over 5 million people and yet, with all our natural assets, the university of scotland has calculated that we could contribute 1% of the world’s renewable energy needs. that would be worth some gbp 14 billion or eur 20 billion per annum. green energy is not a loss leader. to achieve this, we need leadership, which, sadly, the scottish government is not providing. we in scotland and in europe need a coherent energy plan. the european commission is in an ideal position to provide the leadership and structure that these emerging technologies need. we heard last week that the european renewables organisations are asking to be allocated eur 250 million in the seventh framework programme for research. i challenge the commission to achieve and surpass that.
member of the commission. i wish to begin by thanking the honourable members of the european parliament for this debate. energy policy has not been sufficiently debated either in this house or in the european union. i would not like the public to view energy policy purely from the perspective of climate change. energy policy is so important that it needs to be debated properly. today’s debate shows that we can encourage markets by creating the right conditions. the european union has achieved remarkable success. the very fact that we are asking ourselves how we can achieve the target of 22% for green electricity, when the current forecast is for an insufficient 19%, is already a success in itself. we must continue to provide specific requirements to encourage the markets to respond. the commission will bring forward concrete new proposals concerning renewables, biomass and clean vehicles, and is working on new proposals. in this way we can encourage the market to respond to the needs of society. at the same time, the biggest challenge is to foster concerted efforts to create new technologies. co2 capture and storage and other new environmental technologies are now on the agenda. that is one of the areas where the commission’s actions should be strengthened by actions by the members states and industry. i look forward to working with the european parliament with a view to achieving such energy policy priorities.
mr president, those of us who remained silent while mr swoboda was making his contribution to the debate would have been grateful if he had kept his remarks to himself, or perhaps made them afterwards. it is a discourtesy to members of this house to interrupt others’ speaking time.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this part-session includes discussion of a directive stating that air controllers will have to speak and understand english to a satisfactory level in all member states. english is already the language of air control. one of the entry requirements to train at eurocontrol is a good knowledge of english, the international language of aviation. these proposals lessen the requirement to speak english across air traffic control. amendment 17 says: ‘member states may require level 5 of the icao proficiency test in english and/or the local language’. ‘or’ means ‘or’ in any language. that threatens safety. the report contains phrases such as: ‘the right of member states to develop national endorsements should only apply in exceptional cases’. that is not english, it is eu gobbledegook. world airlines fear the eu’s costly desire to switch air control from radar to galileo, but the eu’s air control agenda is not really about airways, it is about eu control and control for the sake of it.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr andersson for taking over from mr de rossa, to whom i wish all the best for his recovery. i am very pleased with the considerable progress that has been made, both in the council and in the european parliament, on this proposal and which now allows us to reach its final adoption. the commission proposal before us today aims to update the community regulations on the coordination of social security schemes in the member states to take account of changes in national legislation, to clarify the legal situation with regard to certain articles of those regulations and to take account of recent developments in the case law of the court of justice of the european communities, particularly with regard to annex iia to regulation no 1408/71. i would like to stress annex iia in particular. this annex contains a list of special noncontributory benefits which are the subject of specific coordination under the regulation i have just mentioned. this coordination, which has been validated by the court of justice, is based on the principle of residence. it provides, first, that the benefits in question are not exportable but, secondly, that the new state of residence is required to provide, in its territory, the benefits provided for by its national legislation. in the light of recent case law of the court of justice, it has become necessary to review the list of benefits in annex iia and to verify that only those benefits meet the following criteria: first, they must be non-contributory, i.e. financed by taxation, and second, they must be special. a benefit is special when it is halfway between social security and social assistance. it is special when its main objective is to guarantee a minimum subsistence income or when it is intended solely for the specific protection of disabled persons. i would like to emphasize the important progress made in the council, since thanks to the spirit of compromise of the member states, the examination of annex iia has led to the fact that a large number of benefits currently listed in that annex have not been maintained. this is particularly the case for benefits which, although intended for disabled persons, are primarily intended to alleviate the dependence of these persons by improving their health and living conditions. as such, they are very special and cannot be included in this annex iia. so i want to congratulate your rapporteur, mr de rossa, on his excellent report, and the committee on employment and social affairs on its work. the rapporteur and this committee have rightly stressed the important improvements which this regulation can bring to the citizen and, therefore, the need to accept the council's common position in order not to jeopardise the progress made. it is true that, as you know, three member states considered that some of their benefits had particular characteristics which distinguished them from other benefits and that these benefits - five in all - therefore fulfilled the conditions for being maintained in annex iia. in order not to prevent the adoption of the regulation, which also brings about considerable improvements, the council agreed to keep these five benefits in annex iia pending the court of justice's clarification of its case law. the commission has, however, reserved the right to refer the matter to the court of justice for all necessary clarifications on these five benefits, in the light of the criteria laid down in the regulation. on the basis of these clarifications and the court's conclusions, the commission shall, if appropriate, submit a proposal to revise the list of entries set out in annex iia. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing real social progress. it is certainly regrettable that not everything has been fully finalised, but it is such progress that i believe parliament has every reason to accept it and thus give our fellow european citizens a better chance of being able to enjoy the desirable mobility within the union without losing the rights to benefits they need to cope with the risks of life. i therefore thank parliament, mr president, for its work and, i hope, for the adoption of this text.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, it is late in the evening, so of course it is time to talk about regulation 1408: we always get the best slots for our discussions! i should like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on this. it is with a certain amount of reluctance that my group has signed up to the amendment because we fully understand the frustration that mrs oomen-ruijten has just expressed. we feel, once again, that a number of member states are obeying what they believe to be the letter of the law rather than the spirit of the law. however, my group will not delay the implementation of the other changes that are important and positive for people in order to await suitable cases and the ecj timetable, since that may not happen particularly fast. we are concerned about the number of exclusions, not least from the uk, because they particularly affect the lives of the disabled and elderly people. the department of work and pensions’ website describes the disability living allowance and the attendance allowance as two of the most important social security benefits in the uk. the wording is important. many members will find that they receive letters about the importance of these payments for students studying abroad. while it is true that they can apply to be recognised for particular allowances in other member states, this is not particularly helpful at times when, for example, in the uk they have to have been resident for 26 out of the previous 52 weeks before being eligible for disability allowance. this is not particularly helpful if they have been a student during the period of october to june. we only have to do the maths. we also get letters from people wanting to retire abroad, where the difference in the monies paid makes a considerable difference as to whether they can move to a climate that has a more positive effect on their health and quality of life. therefore i deeply regret the decision of the uk government not to include those social security benefits. i believe that its decisions are discriminatory in their effect, a barrier to equal opportunities and do not fit in with the concept of social inclusion as it crosses boundaries. i hope that we will see some rapid action from the commission, even if we could not express this in writing.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, in his article in the current issue of parliament’s magazine, mr de rossa stated that his resolution was carried unanimously in the committee on employment and social affairs. but the record shows that one member voted against. that was me, and i intend to do so again this week with my ukip colleagues. let me explain. at the centre of mr de rossa’s report is a stand-off between the commission and the council over the exportability of five benefits, three from the united kingdom. mr de rossa suggests that the report should be adopted without delay, so that regulation 1408/71 can be tidied up. then he proposes that the european court of justice resolve the dispute over the five benefits. we believe that the decision on the united kingdom benefit should be left to her majesty’s government, which does not want them to be exportable. indeed, the council’s previously stated common position upholds that of her majesty’s government. we therefore deplore the commission’s change of mind. we believe that it should be for each member state to define the basis on which its benefits are to be paid and to whom. we absolutely oppose the notion that the deadlock should be resolved by the european court of justice. benefits are part of taxation systems. they are dual systems: taking from and giving back. to interfere in either is to interfere in the taxation system as a whole. since the eu likes to keep up the pretence that it has no competence for issues of taxation, it should not therefore interfere at all in the benefits system. to return, finally, to mr de rossa’s article, it is noted that finland and sweden also contest the listing of two allowances. we respect their stance. the article shows that the commission has exempted the irish carers’ allowance, as the irish government wished. it is wrong and iniquitous that the united kingdom carers’ allowance has not been exempted. as regards the three united kingdom benefits, let me say unequivocally that her majesty’s elected government should be treated like its irish counterparts in that respect and that should be the end of the matter.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, commissioner, the alde group would like to thank mrs figueiredo for all the work she did to produce such a comprehensive report and, in particular, for her willingness to compromise in committee. there is a great deal that we can support in the resolution, especially concerning lifelong learning, smes, corporate social responsibility, disadvantaged regions and the fight against discrimination. however, we have some serious concerns, more specifically with regard to paragraph 1, paragraph 5, indent 5, and recital e. meeting these concerns is crucial to our decision on the final vote. we have two difficulties with paragraph 1. firstly, we appreciate the need for adjustments to be made to financial and economic policies over time, but the use of ‘revision’ implies a fundamental departure from them, as mrs figueiredo effectively acknowledges in her speech. secondly, the paragraph is too diffuse. we prefer the emphasis that our own amendment places on how the lisbon strategy should address deficiencies in the current social situation. in the other two cases, our concern is not with the whole content of the indent or recital involved, but with infelicitous phrases found there. those are covered by appropriate amendments or requests for split votes. this is true for various other improvements that we would prefer to see made to the text. finally, on recital m, there have been some translation problems. we would specify that this must be understood as asking only for member states to consider introducing the concept of a minimum income as the basis of social protection when they do not currently have such a system. it is not an attempt to move toward some kind of europe-wide minimum wage.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, the social situation is dependent on employment. there is a certain difference in outlook between mrs figueiredo's report and the barroso commission. the report, if adopted, would lead to further initiatives and pressure to press on with the lisbon agenda. the commission seems to be heading the other way, towards a freer structure. recently it proposed that 80% of resources be managed in a decentralised way. if competencies were indeed to be restored to the nation state, the uk independence party might be persuaded to support the commission. this is because the uk was drawn into what was then the ec on the promise that it was not leading to a federal state, but that it was simply about trade. if only that were so. one thing is certain: the uk has half the average unemployment rate of the eu as a whole. along with sweden and denmark we have the lowest levels of unemployment. governments do not produce that. they simply make the conditions right for employment to flourish. the single most important factor is the common currency. sweden, denmark and the uk have not adopted the single currency, so they are not saddled with a single interest rate. even in the uk there is a disparity of economies. the bank of england cannot set an interest rate suitable for the whole country. how then can the european central bank set a common interest rate suitable for a europe with widely varying economies arising from such great geographical diversity and widely differing ways of life? along with my colleagues, i shall vote against this report.
mr president, this is not a legislative report, and might therefore be regarded as unimportant. however, i agree with mr kułakowski that it is an important report, for two reasons. the first reason is the subject matter itself: the fact that growth across the eu has halved in the past three years, and that unemployment now affects 20 million people, constitutes not just an economic disaster but also a gigantic social disaster. as so often when unemployment rises, the hardest hit are the vulnerable: young people trying to enter the employment market for the first time; young mothers trying to re-enter it; older people trying to stay in it. those are some of the groups who suffer most, as was so eloquently pointed out by my colleague mr crowley and emphasised by his constituents in the visitors’ gallery. this subject calls for debate, but above all it calls for action. the second reason this issue is so important is the difference in views over the action required. some political parties want to drive real change, whereas others are determined to block it. the rapporteur believes that we need more, rather than less, of the failed policies of the past: that more public sector jobs are one answer; that harmonised labour regulations are another; that more targets are another; that more legislation can produce more jobs; that the services directive should be dropped when it should be embraced; that the european social model should be preserved when it should be reformed. the former would be a recipe for more unemployment and greater social injustice. the question now is whether, as in committee, the socialists and communists will vote as one to keep the old, failed agenda intact. on our side, we believe that it should not be voted through without fundamental amendment. we will vote to deliver the lisbon agenda, which means voting against the report as it stands. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, these trade debates are always very complex and generalised tariff preferences are no exception to that rule. so perhaps we are lucky to have mr mandelson as the trade commissioner; after all, he is rather more competent than the rest of the shower in the european commission. if we go back to first principles, the united kingdom is the fourth largest economy in the world, the third largest trading nation in the world and the head of a commonwealth with 30% of the world’s population in it. london is the world’s leading financial centre and english is the common business language of the world. why then, in view of all these things, have we been represented since 1973 by the eec, the ec, the eu and no doubt, if the constitution is adopted, the united states of europe? surely it would be better for the united kingdom to sit at the wto in its own right. not only do we have a better relationship with our former colonies than most other european countries, but we are not dominated by the same protectionist imperative as the european union. that is why oxfam has awarded the european union its double standards award for rank hypocrisy. we want a british voice. we want real british influence and perhaps then we can give the third world a real sporting chance. (applause)
in writing. as a measure to complement the "single european sky" i welcome this proposal. it is obviously imperative that we take this opportunity to retain the ability to revise and reinforce safety aspects of air traffic management, to facilitate the establishment of cross-border functional airspace blocks and to create a level playing field for training services across the european union. in addition to this, i support the linguistic requirement that member states must ensure that air traffic controllers can demonstrate the ability to speak and understand english to a satisfactory standard as a means to the ends above. i also welcome the mutual recognition of air traffic controller licences contained within this proposal, confirming the principles established by the case law of the european court of justice.
in writing. i welcome this action as many of us spend a large part of our lives in working environments so they should be made as safe and as pleasant as possible. while there is an appearance that currently the united states economy is doing better than the continental european economy, it would be far too simplistic to attribute this to higher working standards in the european union; i remain convinced that higher social standards will lead to better productivity in the long run.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the commission and council and find it extraordinary that neither has mentioned the fact that two eu member states possess nuclear arsenals, and that this undermines the moral authority of the whole of the eu in the debate on nuclear disarmament. the overwhelming hypocrisy of the government of my own country, the uk, and of the us, in demanding that others disarm while they simultaneously upgrade their own nuclear capacity, is completely unacceptable. the npt treaty is a bargain, with non-nuclear states agreeing not to acquire nuclear weapons and existing nuclear states agreeing in return to begin a process of disarmament. since we have failed to keep our side of the bargain, we cannot be surprised if other countries ignore our pleas for their disarmament. at the same time, we are running enormous risks of nuclear materials falling into the hands of non-state actors. the position of the uk government is sadly both reckless and irresponsible, and it is also illegal. we have heard a lot about international law recently, so i would remind both britain and france that, according to the icj in the hague, nuclear weapons are not only immoral but also illegal. britain and france should lead by example and unilaterally dismantle their illegal nuclear warheads, and the eu and its member states must present an action plan and timetable for achieving a nuclear-free europe.
mr president, i wish to talk about one or two aspects with respect to north korea. this is a country that over the last 12 to 18 months has engaged in massive and irreversible steps on the road to economic reform, in particular in industry and agriculture. however, the nuclear crisis is still hanging over us. over the last five years, the european union has put half a billion euros into north korea in humanitarian and development aid, yet we have not been included in the six-party talks. several weeks ago, the north korean ambassador to berlin spoke to parliament's new delegation for relations with the korean peninsula and indicated that north korea would welcome our participation, as would the chinese and the south koreans. in our joint resolution we are asking the commission and the council to investigate the possibility of the european union being part of that programme. that may help to break the logjam we are facing there. the european parliament would not like a situation in which it has no say in the onward negotiations but, like last time round with the framework agreement, is left with the bill! my second point is not on the plutonium programme – north korea has stated that it now has nuclear weapons – but on one of the causes of the crisis, which was the claim by the united states that north korea had a highly enriched uranium programme. it looks as though north korea got the blueprints from pakistan, but the americans have produced no evidence that it has an ongoing programme. neither has it the necessary materials to produce the gas centrifuges, or the quality or quantity of electricity – which would have to be enough to power a medium-sized city in europe – to undertake that programme. my last point concerns the korean energy development organisation. the council has chosen not to pay the eur 4 million to south korea as suspension costs for that programme, which therefore threatens its future. i know some in this house would not like to see it refined into a nuclear programme, but it could well serve as a very useful channel for non-nuclear conventional or renewable energies. we ask the council to look again at whether this small contribution, which would buy a couple of flats in london, should not be made to enable us to have that political impact.
mr president, lebanon has a recent history of civil war and a complex ethnic and religious balance. it has never been fully recognised as independent by neighbouring syria, which has not even bothered to open an embassy there, claiming beirut is too near damascus. instead, syria has promoted through its pan-arab ba’athist doctrine a ‘greater syria’ concept. pressure is now mounting on syria from saudi arabia, russia, the us and israel to withdraw its troops from lebanon. however, president al-assad has only agreed to implement the terms of the taif accord of 1989, which obliges syria to redeploy its 14 000-strong army to the eastern bekaa valley, because he is buying time, and he has so far ignored the more comprehensive un security council resolution 1559. but the heat is now on, following the assassination of former prime minister rafik hariri, with the so-called cedar revolutionaries on the streets of beirut. these mainly druze and maronite christians are blaming the one-party syrian dictatorship for their country’s problems. if the lebanese demonstrators have their way in the may election, their victory at the polls could signal the end of 30 years of economic and political co-dependence, but it would also make al-assad’s position a lot shakier. hizbollah, the international terrorist executive arm of iran and syria, which is based in lebanon but increasingly working to undermine the palestinian authority and peace with israel, is threatened by its syrian protector’s withdrawal. hizbollah has 12 mps in the lebanese parliament and the eu council of ministers is therefore reluctant to ban it, claiming there is a difference between its civilian political activities and its military wing. hizbollah itself makes no such distinction. france, a traditional friend of the arab world, is leading this resistance in the council, with belgian, swedish, irish and spanish backing. the latter is being particularly hypocritical as the spanish government was quite happy to ban herri batasuna and eject its mps from the spanish parliament. why, then, is hizbollah not banned by the eu until it renounces the use of suicide bombers against innocent civilians and recognises the state of israel’s right to exist?
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur from this side of the house, i am delighted that the commissioner has set out quite clearly a positive case for the services directive. we will make that positive case, because we want the jobs and the new business start-ups. we want the businesses mr kamiński has talked about to take advantage of this. we are delighted that the commission is finally banishing the spectre of social dumping and all the other caricatures of this directive that have been put about by its opponents without the commission making any case for its positive side. as the commissioner said, this is a key part of the lisbon agenda, which we support. we will work with the commission to deliver an effective and workable directive that will be of benefit to consumers and citizens throughout the european union. the country-of-origin principle is an integral part. we will support that and get the votes in favour. let us work together, move forward and dispel forever the idea that the commission is going to withdraw this proposal. we want a workable and effective proposal for all the citizens of europe. (applause)
mr president, i shall confine my remarks to the services directive, and speak as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs. commissioner, it clearly comes as no surprise to you that the left is strongly opposed to this particular directive and would prefer you to withdraw it, or at least neuter it. however, please do not assume that is the wish of this house. a matter of hours ago we voted on the figueiredo report. that report on the social situation in europe was scathing about the services directive, and this house voted to reject it. i suggest that the message here is clear, and you may be surprised at the strength of feeling in support of what you aim to do, surprised at the awareness that this directive could be good for consumers, good for taxpayers, good for growth and above all good for jobs. i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to be bold in your proposals and to press ahead. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, given the wide-ranging issues raised i do not have time to deal with all these points, but on software patents i clearly indicated that the ball is in the court of the european parliament. if parliament wishes to reject it, then the commission will respect that decision. i have heard what members are saying on that matter. i said it in the committee meeting i attended. i repeated it at the council presidency last week and i repeat it here today in my speech. it is up to the european parliament to do its job on this particular matter and we will take on board your concerns. some questions were asked about the matter at the council of ministers yesterday. the council of ministers issued a statement and it is now a matter for the council of ministers. i turn now to the services directive. one thing i have learned in my political life is that it is always easier to come up with reasons not to do something than it is to do something. secondly, i believe that there is never a right time to take a new or brave initiative. there are always good reasons not do anything. may i also say that it is easier for ministers or commissioners to sit in their offices and say that they will do absolutely nothing, because the only way to avoid making bad decisions is to make no decisions! but we in europe do not have the option of sitting on our hands and praying and hoping that something will turn up, as in beckett’s novel. we have to do something to galvanise the european economy. i respect the views of people on the left and on the right. i respect the political philosophy of people who have looked at things differently from me over the years. i respect the different economic philosophies that can be pursued with legitimacy. i have my own particular ideas in that regard. but no matter where you stand on this particular problem regarding the european economy, you have to conclude that standing still is not an option. (applause)and if 70% of the european union’s economy comes from services, you do not need a higher degree in economics to realise that you must do something about services in europe in order to galvanise the european economy. for a number of years, the european economy has been growing at a rate less than its full potential. that will not allow us to sustain the social model that we have built up, or to have sustainable development, unless we do something dramatic to galvanise economic activity in the union. whatever perspective you take, if we keep heading in the present direction we will not be able to do the things we have taken for granted for many decades. nor will we be able to do things in the future, such as dealing with our ageing populations, unless we do something about the economy. the services directive, as proposed by the previous commission, was a noble and very innovative attempt to do something dramatic in this vital area. i could take a pristine, pure view of this – as some commission officials might want – and stand in my office on the ninth floor of the berlaymont, open the window, get a trumpet and broadcast that ‘this is wonderful! i am going to stand on the barricades for ever and ever and defend this proposal from the last commission! it is absolutely brilliant and i am going to defend it from now until death – and into the valley of death i would ride!’ however, i realise that the services directive as initiated has not a snowball’s chance in hell of getting through either the council of ministers or the european parliament. i could be pristine and pure and say that i will make great speeches about it, get nothing through, offer no services directive at all and do nothing to address the problems facing us all over europe. however, i have taken the pragmatic view. i have listened to what parliamentarians have to say. i have been here on many occasions. i have met people individually and collectively and at committees and they have given me very good ideas as to what we should do. some people strongly believe we should continue as we started, but that will not succeed either. therefore, i have taken everybody’s views into account and have stated that the commission is willing to listen and to accept changes to ensure that we will end up with a services directive that does something positive for the european economy. that is why i am here today, and that is what i set forth here this afternoon and last week. it is a very important point i must say that the members of any organisation – be it a local political party, a local sports club, a local trade union or a local employers’ organisation – all like certainty and do not like change. we always like change for the other person but not for ourselves. politicians are the same. we would prefer not to have to face another election but just be elected time after time. that would be great for the politician, but very bad for democracy. therefore, we do not want to create the impression that we are going to deny the new member states that recently joined the union the same opportunities that the existing 15 have had for a long time, including the country i know best. (applause) i respect the views of people who look at this problem from a different perspective. however, we cannot be here just as the voice of the ‘ins’ and forget about the ‘outs’. that is not what social democracy, as i know it, is meant to be. we must guard against people who are lulled into defending the interests of the status quo. it is the easier political thing to do, because they are the people you are certain of and who probably voted for you before. however, remember that there are millions of people coming on to the job market who are waiting for the opportunity to have a decent standard of living and social inclusion. they must be given the same opportunity as the rest of us have been given. it is important that we come up with a services directive that makes a positive economic impact and takes on board genuine concerns. i am prepared to take those on board and to work with the european parliament on getting a services directive through. it is now for the european parliament to deal with the matter. i will be as constructive as possible. i hope to be able to come up with the best solution possible, based on the broadest consensus, because that is what we and europe need. (applause)
mr president, not for the first time i should like to ask you to communicate to the president of parliament a request for clarification of the rules and procedures for these ‘catch-the-eye’ sessions. like the previous speaker, i know that my name was put forward very early on and yet i have not been called. i know you cannot call everyone, but i have a very particular viewpoint from scotland that has not been heard. i will now write to mr mccreevy about it and invite him to respond urgently, but please, mr president, review and clarify this procedure.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, before i answer your question, allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of myself and the commission, on your appointment as minister of the interior in your country, which will enable you to have an even more continuous and fruitful relationship with me.
commission. to the commission's knowledge, the publication of a list of the union's ten most wanted criminals has not yet been discussed at eu level. currently, the schengen information system – sis – enables designated law enforcement authorities of 13 member states, plus norway and iceland, to have access to wanted persons alerts by means of an automated search procedure. these alerts and accompanying supplementary information are used for the transmission of european arrest warrants between member states. for this purpose the customs information system will soon also be available to designated law enforcement authorities of the united kingdom and ireland and, after the second generation of the cis has become operational, to the ten member states that joined europe in 2004. the sis-cis can be searched by police officers of all the countries taking part in the implementation of the schengen acquis. introduction of an alert for a wanted person in sis is under the responsibility of participating countries whose authorities issued the arrest warrant. it is up to the issuing countries to decide whether they deem the wider dissemination of information on a wanted person, for example via publication on the interpol website, is of added value. with regard to the possible involvement of europol, it should be noted that the mandate and role of europol, based on the unique legal framework of the europol convention, is totally different. europol, as the central law enforcement authority in the european union, is founded on the principle of sharing and analysing information and intelligence, especially in the investigation or intelligence phase prior to measures such as the issue of an arrest warrant for a criminal or a house search on a warrant from judicial authorities at a later stage. at europol, member states compile information and intelligence on file to assess top criminals, groups and organisations and coordinate subsequent joint action on the monitoring and targeting of suspected criminals by the law enforcement authorities. an arrest warrant issued by the judicial authorities is therefore normally one of the final elements in the intelligence process that the law enforcement agencies carry out in advance. the commission would be willing to discuss with the new member states whether there is a need to improve the instruments at eu level for searching for persons wanted for serious criminal offences with a cross-border dimension. at the moment, the general public cannot access alerts for a wanted person in the schengen information system, because sis is only accessible to the designated law enforcement authorities of the schengen contracting parties, due to the sensitivity of the data involved and data protection regulations. in my view, the most appropriate forum for discussing this question with the new member states and europol is probably the european chiefs of police task force, which meets roughly every three months. the first meeting in 2005 took place in february, so the commission would therefore be in a position to provide a final reply in the second half of 2005.
thank you for a very complex and interesting reply, which needs to be read carefully. the point, surely, is that organised crime bleeds the european economy; these criminals are stealing billions from us in various different ways. it can only be beneficial to involve the public in that battle, not to do it behind the scenes in the complex way you describe. why not involve the public as well? would you please raise the question, obtain a list of the worst criminals in europe and help the public find them?
to follow up on mr newton dunn’s question, it seems clear to me that the public are now well aware that criminal activity is international and that criminals move freely across eu frontiers. what they are not so aware of is the coordination that takes place to try and counteract that. i therefore urge the commission to look into bringing the different information together on a regular basis, whether through europol, schengen, or the chiefs of police; and look into making public what can be safely be made public, in order to demonstrate that we are acting as a community to tackle international crime.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would first like to reply to mrs ayala sender that at the present stage, it is true, there are no community regulations on traffic restrictions for heavy goods vehicles engaged in international transport. a measure such as that taken by france, madam president, must be examined in the light of the objective of the free movement of goods and in the light of the general principles of community law, in particular the criteria of non-discrimination and proportionality. if it is established that france is not respecting these principles of community law and is creating an obstacle to free movement, the commission could of course consider opening an infringement procedure. for the time being, i can assure you that i will convey your concern to the french authorities and ask them to take due care, given the importance of this passage for many heavy goods vehicles. for the rest, rest assured that we are also very attentive to launching all the necessary studies to determine how to improve the crossing of the pyrenees. i'm more than willing to discuss this problem with you. this also allows me to reply to the honourable member who reminds me of all the problems that exist on the western axis, the atlantic axis, between bordeaux and dax and, of course, the crossing of the basque country. i would like to tell him that we are very keen to improve these links and i hope that we will be able to implement priority project no 3. so, with both the eastern and western branches, we will already have some improvements on the pyrenees crossing, which of course does not prevent us from continuing to think about a central crossing. that's what i meant. in any case, we are very attentive and i hope that at the next council the new eurovignette directive will be able to make progress and thus allow me, mr and mrs green, to make progress on these matters which are essential. you are quite right and if we are not careful, the whole mobility of europeans is at stake. that is why i am very much involved in these various projects and of course i am always at your disposal to keep you informed of their progress.
member of the commission. thank you for the question. counterfeiting and piracy are very serious problems and they are of enormous and growing magnitude. the total volume of counterfeit goods is between 5% and 10% of world trade and the value is close to eur 500 billion per year. counterfeiting and piracy undermine jobs and result in a considerable loss of revenue. but as more and more fake foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, car and aircraft spare parts appear on the market, counterfeiting is a growing threat to the health and safety of the consumer. customs play a major role in combating counterfeiting. eu customs, with new modern legislation and operational actions, have increased by 900% the seizures of fake products in four years. one of the most effective instruments in the fight against counterfeiting, however, is to cut it at source. bearing in mind that 70% of counterfeit products seized at eu borders are of chinese origin, the commission has been focusing on china in the fight against counterfeiting. a promising achievement was the recently signed customs cooperation agreement between the european union and china, which includes joint action against counterfeiting. the significance of the cooperation is shown by a single statistic: 5 000 containers arrive daily from china in the major ports in the european union. my colleague, commissioner mandelson, who is responsible for trade policy, visited china recently and had the opportunity to discuss the issue with high-ranking chinese officials, including the deputy prime minister, who expressed their commitment to the fight against counterfeiting. the commission has regular dialogues with china at an expert level too. the eu-china intellectual property rights dialogue had its first meeting last october in beijing. the next meeting of the economic and trade working group will be held on 17 and 18 march. it will also address the intellectual property issue within a sub-group entirely dedicated to that subject. commissioner in charge of taxation and customs, i have high expectations for cooperation with the chinese customs authorities, as well as for modern chinese customs legislation. i hope that a large proportion of the counterfeit goods will be stopped and seized prior to their export from china. concerning russia, there are very few fake products seized by eu customs that have come from russia. the russian intellectual property legislation is now largely compliant with the wto trips agreement. however, enforcement remains weak. the commission intends to continue its efforts on intellectual property issues with russia through a structured intellectual property dialogue, similar to the one with china.
commissioner, your reply was very encouraging. the chinese authorities appear to make the right noise about tackling counterfeit goods. would it not be worthwhile for the eu to offer to place customs and other investigative officers in china to assist the chinese in tackling this? i suspect china will say ‘no’ because i still do not believe it is serious. however, it is an offer that we should make to test whether china is willing to respond to our initiatives.
member of the commission. i'm not going to let you do this. the answer to your question is a resounding yes. i can assure the house and you personally that the european commission and the directorate-general responsible will make such an offer to china and we are prepared to bear the costs, as the customs cooperation agreement to which i have referred and which also provides protection against counterfeiting is compatible with such technical assistance measures.
member of the commission. following the tsunami disasters, the commission proposed to accelerate the entry into force of the future generalised system of preferences for all the countries affected by the tsunami, particularly sri lanka for textiles and thailand, indonesia and india. all these countries benefited from the new gsp proposal presented in october 2004. the commission will continue to evaluate the gsp. it did that in 2002, when it presented detailed trade data and major gsp trends. however, in order to be credible, such a monitoring scheme must cover several years. the assessment of the generalised system of preferences for developing countries is positive. between 2002 and 2003, eu gsp imports increased from 47.2 billion to 52 billion, although during this period products and commodities like coffee were no longer under a gsp scheme, since they were granted duty-free access under other international agreements. as far as the gsp is concerned, the eu is by far the most important donor in the world. the eu’s gsp scheme is wider than any other. the second largest is the us scheme, which amounted to only usd 17 billion in 2003. nevertheless, the gsp scheme should not be taken in isolation. the eu is also a partner in several other preferential trade arrangements that benefit developing countries, for example, the ‘everything but arms’ initiative and the cotonou agreement. thanks to the various schemes, 79% of trade flows from developing countries enter the eu through a preferential tariff regime. 97% of the trade flows from acp countries and 60% of trade flows from non-acp least-developed countries enter the eu duty-free.
thank you, commissioner, for your detailed answer, which, together with the information given by commissioner mandelson in the debate earlier today, has left me fully satisfied.
mr president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. commissioner mandelson made it clear this morning that the commission’s aim in bringing forward this revision of the gsp was to ensure better targeting of trade preferences to benefit the least developed and most vulnerable countries, simplify the gsp system and make it more transparent, improve access to the gsp system by improving the rules of origin and encourage good governance in the countries that benefit from the system. all the rapporteur’s amendments take the commission proposals further in that direction and i hope that the commissioner will look closely at each of the amendments the rapporteur has proposed. we have also had good cooperation between the commission and parliament in bringing forward the implementation date for this measure. it was originally to come into force at the end of the year. it is now planned to come into force from april onwards, to respond to the tsunami crisis. while the volume of aid given to the countries affected by the tsunami has been welcomed, this measure will do more for them in the longer term. by providing them with an opportunity to trade more easily with the european union, we are giving them a hand up rather than a handout. finally, the rapporteur has indicated that he is prepared to accept an amendment that mr karim and myself put forward. this would technically allow pakistan to qualify for gsp aid. i should to emphasise that, although that would allow them to qualify under the statistics, they will still have to meet the good governance clauses by signing up for the appropriate international agreements, so this would be a carrot to pakistan to sign up to important international social conventions.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr wieland for his analysis in this useful report on the deliberations of the committee on petitions in the 2003-2004 parliamentary year. the commission welcomes this report. this debate represents a good opportunity to highlight why the right to petition the european parliament is such an important way for europeans to exercise their democratic rights. it must be said straight away that citizens’ exercise of the right to petition does not just concern the european parliament. the petitions also represent a valuable opportunity for the commission to get closer to citizens and their concerns. although no less than 1 313 petitions were tabled in the 2003-2004 period, it is clear that many citizens remain unaware of their right to petition. therefore i very much welcome the fact that the european parliament is currently considering how this can be remedied and i can assure the committee on petitions and the rapporteur that they enjoy the total support of the commission in that effort. on that note, the commission would like to congratulate the committee on its excellent work. it is also very satisfactory to note the rapporteur’s assessment that cooperation between the commission and the committee on petitions is generally good. there is, of course, always scope for improvement, and i agree with the rapporteur on the need to further strengthen the partnership between the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman, the council and the commission. i know this is particularly important since, due to resource constraints, the committee on petitions often has to rely on the resources of the commission and the council to give its petitions in-depth legal consideration. i can assure parliament that the commission is pursuing its efforts to rationalise and accelerate internal procedures in response to requests for information. as underlined in the report, the draft constitutional treaty confirms the right to petition. in that context, the report refers to the need to establish common rules of conduct for all community institutions and member states. it also suggests that this could be done along the lines of the code of good administrative behaviour drawn up by the european ombudsman. the commission can largely endorse this approach, although it draws attention to the anticipated development of the legal framework. in particular, the text of the future constitution introduces a legal basis that will make requests to the committee on petitions possible on the basis of the codecision procedure. the report also calls on the council and the commission to review the 1989 interinstitutional agreement concluded with the european parliament by an exchange of letters. such a review would aim to define a stronger framework for cooperation between the three institutions. the commission is open to that request. to conclude, i should reiterate that i am committed to improving the way the european union in general and the commission in particular communicate with european citizens. the right of eu citizens to good administration and access to documents and their right to submit complaints to the european ombudsman and file petitions with the european parliament all benefit communication and, ultimately, democracy. i am available to talk to the european parliament at any time, at the invitation of parliament or any of its committees.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner and also congratulate mr wieland on his excellent report. as a member of the committee on petitions, may i say that it is a really good example of a cross-party, consensual approach to problem-solving. however, member states’ responses are often inadequate. sometimes they are simply not forthcoming. the council is rarely present in the committees. however, recognition is due to the commission officials who regularly brief our committee for the work we are undertaking. the committee is a brilliant interface between the citizens and the institutions and it brings forward solutions to problems at both eu and member state level. member states’ intransigence is also highlighted. i would, at this point, also like to pay tribute to our current chairman mr libicki, who has carried on the good work of our previous chairman. there is only one element in mr wieland’s report with which i could perhaps quibble, and that is his reference in paragraph 17 to a standing working group or subcommittee. this is, after all, a report on the previous year’s deliberations and we should not undermine the role or the work of the bureau and its coordinators. but i look forward to seeing how we can address the issue of the increasing number of petitions that we have to deal with. you will not have heard this from me before, commissioner, but in that regard we will need additional resources. without the resources, we cannot serve our citizens. the secretariat is severely understaffed, but again i have to pay tribute to its staff. they work extremely hard and supply us with everything we need, but their job would be a lot easier if the secretariat was fully staffed. we also need additional resources to promote the right of petition, especially in the new member states, and to ensure that, where necessary, the commission is fully willing and able to enforce the infringement process. finally, we must never forget that the right to petition enshrined in the treaties is an important example of the exercise of citizens’ democratic rights and their ability to hold the institutions and their member states to account. (applause)
rapporteur.– mr president, i shall start by expressing my thanks and paying tribute to colleagues across this house who regularly attend the acp meetings and contribute so much to it. i also pay equal tribute to the parliamentarians of the acp countries, without whom this partnership and dialogue would not be possible. in so doing, i would also like to pay tribute to the joint secretariats of our parliament and the assembly, the interpreters and staff who accompany us, and the commissioners, officials and members of the presidency who attend. this is a team effort and it is a team effort that we need to endorse and encourage. however, this evening i would like to pay a particular tribute to the co-president of the acp, glenys kinnock, who has been away from our circle for some time. it is very good to see her back this evening i hope in good health and ready to face the fray of the next parliamentary assembly. her contribution is fundamental to what we seek to do. the european parliament is a new parliament. slowly but steadily we have been taking on powers and becoming, i hope, more effective. the same is true of the joint parliamentary assembly. that too has been slowly becoming more effective and, if not taking on powers, at least becoming more influential. the assembly started somewhat tentatively. in the early days the european parliament was perhaps dominant, but reliant all too often on separate house votes; whereas the acp was a bit more on the defensive, often represented by ambassadors or delegations of only government parties. now we see change. we see few if any separate house votes. we see a parliament of parliamentarians. we see the acp gaining in self-confidence and indeed, most recently at our bureau meeting, raising issues about human rights in europe; and quite right too. the acp was, for example, raising the issues of the british government, its attitude to guantanamo bay and its proposals for the detention of suspects, or indeed people with mental health problems. now we look ahead. we look ahead to budgetisation. we hope that will come soon. that will enable us to give proper scrutiny and proper control of the budget. however, when we do that we will have to balance that scrutiny on behalf of our own taxpayers with acknowledgement of the acp countries’ right to a say in how money is spent; we need to be listening, as well as scrutinising. we need to ensure that the millennium development goals and the country strategy papers are adequate in themselves and adequately followed. the joint parliamentary assembly has now developed an effective system of standing committees, firing on all cylinders and getting members working together. despite the fact that during 2004 we had our european election and so things were more difficult, we managed with electronic communication to bring forth some effective reports. my own with mr sanga of the solomon islands on food aid and food security was an example of that. i would like to pay tribute to the dutch government for the way in which it hosted the assembly in the hague. i think it learned a lot from our experience in rome with their workshops and their visits. i should also like to thank the ethiopian government for its hospitality and effective administration in addis ababa. we are of a mind that, in europe, we should continue to have one of the two council presidencies per year hosting the assembly, and perhaps to swap around the winter and spring to give the acp members a little more warmth of welcome in weather as well as politics. but a lot has already been achieved. in our debates we have a better balance of speakers from the floor and fewer long speeches from the platform, and we are of a mind that we should do more to support the new pan-african parliament, perhaps with exchange of personnel. but now we move on to mali in april, when we will be looking at serious issues of human rights; humanitarian aid; post-tsunami development aid; working together to defeat poverty, hunger and disease; and to create the opportunities for achievement and the blossoming of those rich countries which make up the acp of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. finally, i shall give the quotation from yehudi menuhin that i used in my report: ‘peace may sound simple – one beautiful word – but it requires everything we have, every quality, every strength, every dream, every high ideal’. that is why we seek to make the acp joint parliamentary assembly effective. i believe we are doing so and i heartily endorse the work that all our colleagues put into this. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2004. over the last few years, the influence of the assembly has increased. its role in political dialogue has strengthened and will be explicitly mentioned in the revised cotonou agreement. the assembly has become a true parliamentary forum, with lively debates. in 2003, the assembly took a major step forward by setting up standing committees. it is because of those committees that cooperation between the european and acp members has intensified and the emergence of a broad consensus within the assembly has become possible. the committees strengthen the role of the assembly in monitoring implementation of the cotonou agreement, which states that meetings between eu and acp members of parliament may be arranged at regional or sub-regional level. that strengthens regional integration and fosters cooperation between national parliaments. the resolution calls on the assembly to organise these meetings. the commission is ready to make its contribution to the success of the new arrangements. in conclusion, i would stress that the commission shares your view on the joint parliamentary assembly’s role as a model of cooperation.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, you will be very familiar with the work of the joint parliamentary assembly, having been a very effective and hard-working vice-president of it in the past. i wish to begin by thanking mr bowis for his report, which reflects his own very strong personal commitment not only to the jpa but also to development. his particular interest, knowledge and expertise in relation to health issues have been of great importance to our work in that assembly. his report shows that the assembly has grown in maturity over the last few years. its work needs to flourish and be reinforced in the ways indicated in the report, because the assembly forms the very democratic foundations of the acp-eu partnership. the cotonou partnership agreement emphasises very clearly the importance of the assembly, but omits to award enough importance, if any at all, to the role of national parliaments in our cooperation. it is very important that the forms of cooperation we have continue beyond the meetings with our parliamentary colleagues so that we can support their efforts, as elected representatives, to conduct dialogue with their governments, to scrutinise the legislation and actions of their governments and to hold their governments to account. sadly, an inability to do this is often a feature of the relationship between parliaments and governments in developing countries. as the rapporteur suggested, with reference to the pan-african parliament, there is often a lack of institutional capacity. parliaments are short on staff and equipment and often lack the basic technical knowledge needed to make their work more effective. this is an important issue and one we shall pursue in mali. in fact, just the other day a member of the malian parliament with whom i am in contact told me that it is difficult for parliamentarians there to exercise legislative power, because the executive branch simply does not provide them with information. i agree with mr bowis that an important part of our work is to build up this critical democratic culture in the acp parliaments with which we work. central to this are the links with these parliaments that transit through the edf and financing. as budget commissioner, mrs grybauskaitė will have a particular interest in ensuring that parliamentarians are aware of how this money is spent in their countries and also in the economic partnership agreements. mr bowis talked about the committee's bedding-down. that is happening and the fact that people are slightly dissatisfied about the amount of time they have is merely symptomatic of how successful the whole process is. the jpa continues to grow and flourish, nurtured as it is by our determination to increase our effectiveness and to ensure that both our political voice and that of the parliamentarians from the acp countries are heard. the jpa has a monitoring and supervisory role that is unique. there is nothing else like it in terms of north-south connections between parliamentarians. we must therefore continue to ensure that we can effect change in the 77 developing countries concerned.
mr president, there is something highly obnoxious about any trade in human body parts or tissue. therefore, any trade in human egg cells that may be going on from romania to the united kingdom is utterly reprehensible and must be condemned. i trust the commission will be more forthcoming as to whether or not it believes such a trade is actually going on. the harvesting of egg cells poses serious risks to the health of the women involved, owing to hyper-stimulation of the ovaries. it is therefore offensive and utterly wrong that women in economic need in poor countries are being offered financial incentives to become paid donors. i would support any moves to stamp out this disgraceful trade. the understandable desire of childless couples to have children must not override the human dignity and health of the donors being exploited. as the un general assembly said today when adopting its declaration against the cloning of human beings, measures need to be taken to prevent the exploitation of women in the application of life sciences. this is just such a case.
mr president, i am pleased to be here tonight in order to correct some of the misunderstandings regarding this question. uk policy does not allow any financial inducements for egg donation. clinics can give donors compensation of gbp 15 – about eur 20 – plus expenses for donations. those rules apply both to donors in the united kingdom and to donors supplying anyone in the united kingdom. that is the first clarification. second, i should like to clear up the issue raised in the original question about payments of gbp 1 000. there is currently a debate in the uk about the shortage of egg and sperm donations, particularly now that we are discussing a new law giving children born of such donations the right to know their parents. we believe there will be a shortage of eggs and sperm. so people are talking about how to correct that shortage and some people have talked about gbp 1 000, but that has not been agreed and it is not uk policy. there is indeed a clinic in romania that supplies the uk market. concerns were raised with the human fertilisation and embryology authority in the uk, which is independent. it investigated those concerns, went to romania, spoke to women and looked at the issues. it found that there were some concerns about consent forms. those forms have now been changed. it found no evidence of any payments that were not authorised. however, it is continuing to scrutinise what is happening in romania. at one point it actually stopped the egg cells coming into the uk. it is monitoring the situation all the time. there are some questions to be raised in this regard. i do not think we want a market in human eggs and other human tissues. i support the eu directive's reference to voluntary and altruistic donations. yet we should consider how we are going to deal with people who donate across international borders. we have the capacity to regulate this in our eu countries. that is not the case in other countries that do not have that regulatory capacity. i hope that the commissioner will work with the who on these issues and look at them again to ensure that we find answers to the concerns of members.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, for the president of the commission to succeed in his lisbon agenda he needs the member states to take it seriously. the council presidency’s plea this morning for somebody in each member state to take responsibility is well judged. moreover, president barroso, you will need political will in the council and support in this house for your reforms, neither of which is yet fully evident. europe’s right-wing parties have still not yet embraced the central fact of globalisation that the nation-state and the free market are no longer compatible. free movement of goods and capital without similarly free movement of services and labour is economic nonsense. and the left is still riven by dissent over the role of the state in managing the economy. president barroso, europe’s liberals and democrats will remain steadfast and united in support of your agenda, provided you recognise that the forces which spur growth and create new jobs lie in entrepreneurship and in the determination to make a great product or provide a great new service. the real competition in the global economy is to attract investment capital to back new ideas and create new jobs. unless the single market can be made to work properly, we will lose that battle. liberals and democrats do not deny that government has a role in economic management. when a better educated, wealthier, more assertive public has developed ethical concerns and a higher sensitivity to risk, and when companies value intangible assets like corporate reputation, there is a demand for active and responsible government. for that reason we welcome your reach proposals, for example, or a commitment to bringing aircraft emissions into the emissions trading system. government too has a role in protecting citizens from fraud or market failure and levelling the playing field not only between businesses, but also between business and the citizen. that is why my group supported the unfair commercial practices directive in the last mandate and will support proposals for greater legal certainty in cross-border transactions in this parliament. to us, getting the balance of economic policy right seems fundamental. we therefore have serious reservations about, for example, a poorly prepared software patents directive, which seems of more benefit to multinationals than to smaller inventors. greater intellectual rigour needs to be applied if mr mccreevy’s proposal is to secure a majority at second reading. patents should protect innovation, rather than stifle competition. without a coherent intellectual property regime across the european union, we will create few new european companies. finally, a single market in services must be the centrepiece of the lisbon agenda, to provide growth and jobs. but liberals and democrats recognise a big difference between the functioning of a market and the discharge of a public service, and the services directive will need some changes to reflect that. president barroso, you recognise that if europe’s growth rates continue to lag, we will not provide the same degree of security, prosperity and opportunity for our citizens as others enjoy. we will support your efforts to kick-start europe’s economy but we are not blind to the weakness of measuring economic progress only in quantitative terms. for example, cars that are safer, more fuel efficient and easier to dismantle after use reduce economic growth in classical terms but create another type of good. we will expect your commission to be open to such ideas. to improve the economic vitality and the social and environmental health of our continent simultaneously, the lisbon agenda must combine flexibility, fairness and farsightedness. if it does, the burghers of lisbon will be proud to have lent their name to europe’s success. just as henry the navigator guided europe’s pioneers in the discovery of new lands and great wealth, so you can guide us in the discovery of similar economic success. (applause)
just five years ago, the eu set out to make itself a rival to the united states of america within ten years. now we hear the half-time whistle, but i suspect mr barroso is not a man to listen to whistle-blowers. we are asked to consider a mid-term review, but there seems little to review. the unemployment rate is high and rising and 101 000 regulations and directives are bleeding the life out of the wealth creators. growth is worse. mrs figueiredo said in her report yesterday that 22 million jobs need to be created in the eu in the next five years. you do not have to be hayek to know that cannot be done. it is interesting to see the panic setting in amongst the federalists at last; the cracks are really showing. mr barroso is a rampant free marketeer, according to the people over there, while his ideas went out with the ark according to mr mandelson, from the right. in britain, at least, people are waking up. i quote from this morning’s times: ‘peers tell brussels to give back cash from eu budget’. we have paid in gbp 180 billion and got back gbp 105 billion. where has the gbp 75 billion gone? mr barroso, you try and keep bleeding the british taxpayer at this rate, because worse is better and on that basis this corrupt institution is doing very well indeed. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, one of my first speeches when i became a member of this parliament five years ago was on the first lisbon strategy in april 2000. i was dismayed that the completion of the internal market was ranked well down the priorities in that original paper and there was only one page devoted to it in a voluminous document. i thank you, president barroso, and your team, for elevating the internal market to the top of the agenda where it ought to be. if we do not complete the internal market, we will never have the basis for creating the jobs, growth, social and environmental policies we all want. it is absolutely clear that the next phase of the internal market has to be in services; we all know that. last week i said publicly to you, president barroso, that i thought you were wobbling over this proposal. you were not here last night to hear mr mccreevy make his barnstorming speech. it showed how important this directive is and i thank him very much for that. i can assure you that this side of the house will work with you to get the measure through, because it is the most important measure for the internal market since the 1992 programme and it is crucial for jobs and employment. small- and medium-sized companies are already benefiting from it. i was delighted to hear that commissioner verheugen is going to bring forward a comprehensive programme for modernising and enhancing the conditions for small businesses. that was a weakness in the proposal. i am delighted it is going to be remedied, because if every small- and medium-sized company across europe creates one more job over the next five years, we will have met that job creation goal. that will only be achieved when we have business-friendly policies and an environment in which people want to go out and start businesses, whether in services or in manufacturing and technical innovation. that is the key to delivery of this lisbon agenda. we stand ready, president barroso, to work with you to achieve those goals. (applause from the ppe-de group.)
madam president, the core of the lisbon strategy has to be jobs. for that, we need active labour market policies to ensure that work is rewarded, the unemployed are helped to get work, and that training and retraining are central to everything we do. the three institutions must develop laws that are easy to understand and enforce and achieve their stated objectives without detrimental side effects. the commission has to deliver on the areas for which it is responsible, particularly the completion of the internal market. i welcome mr barroso’s commitment to the services directive. we need it, but it must bring clear benefits and not losses. the starting point of the services directive is the screening of member states’ laws hindering the establishment of services. we do not need a directive to do that. member states could be doing that now; if they were really committed, they would get on with it. that is the key to the debate on the lisbon strategy: are member states prepared to deliver on their promises? the success of lisbon rests with you, mr barroso. in your relations with member states, are you going to be a man or a mouse? the answer to that will determine the success of your commission and of the lisbon strategy. (applause from the pse group.)
president of the council. mr president, i think the debate has shown enough that lisbon is a crucial date and at the same time we must realize that we are in a way facing a paradox. europe is the world's leading trading power, some member states are the export champions, as vice-president verheugen has said, and many european companies are world leaders in their sectors, and yet we give the impression that we are in a kind of endless pessimism. the european industry, in aeronautics, in space technology, with galileo for example, has shown its ability to catch up. it should also be noted that we are experiencing the success of enlargement. the new member states are showing a dynamism, an exemplary european dynamism. the gap between the new and old members of the european union is narrowing: 5% growth for the new members, around 2% for the old. this shows that europe has a tremendous creative capacity. this also shows that the decline of europe is neither a reality nor a fate. at the moment when we are complaining, at the moment when we feel that we are living in a period of decline, the world is also worried about the american deficits, trade deficits, government deficits. but america produces growth, it produces research, it produces jobs. and that is where the weaknesses of europe as a whole lie. however, the question must be approached with a certain degree of caution, since when we talk about europe, the situation varies from one country to another. there are differences between member states, there are states where employment is less of a problem, where growth is there. however, overall we are struggling to achieve sufficient and sustainable growth to create the jobs europe needs to reduce significantly and sustainably unemployment which remains too high. but, as i have already said, there is no reason to be pessimistic, provided that the relaunch of the lisbon strategy is not just a beautiful declaration but actually gives rise to a new impetus, a new impetus which we need, which the european citizens really need and expect. the recovery of economic growth is certainly not synonymous with the dismantling of the european social model. the idea that growth can be achieved by dismantling the social protection system does not seem credible to me. nor is it synonymous with unlimited exploitation of natural resources, which is the opposite of genuine growth in quality. this is not the way to relaunch the reform strategy, the lisbon strategy. social exclusion does not produce more growth or more jobs. but we must also be aware that a less and less competitive economy, which no longer produces enough jobs, inevitably leads to social exclusion and undermines the very foundations of the european social model. that is why the presidency is advocating growth in the service of social cohesion, since social cohesion and economic growth go hand in hand and in a way enrich each other. i think that the european parliament's resolution is an important contribution to the great reform project of relaunching the lisbon strategy. your messages have been heard: more research, better translation of research and innovation into new products and services, better access to and wider dissemination of new technologies and innovation to better anchor new knowledge in the economy and society a knowledge economy project at the opposite end of a society that marginalizes large sections of the population accelerated development of ecotechnologies that can enable europe to assert its leadership in its future activities. finally, i fully agree with what vice-president verheugen said about the prominent role of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the source of jobs that europe needs. but for this network to grow, we must think of new ways of financing it. unfortunately, it is often too difficult to find the financial resources to start a business. the bureaucratic and administrative barriers are sometimes too discouraging for young people to embark on the adventure of starting up new businesses. we must therefore concentrate on better legislation, on reducing bureaucratic barriers where they can be easily reduced, and on european legislation that is more accessible and more easily understood. i think this is a track that we must pursue more vigorously in the future. but social innovation, investment in human capital, lifelong learning are also ways of ensuring that flexibility, a term on which there is broad agreement, does not preclude a necessary degree of security. insecurity is not a source of confidence for the future, it is the opposite. so a dynamic europe that is not suffering from globalisation but is an actor, a real actor, and helps to shape this globalisation, that is, in a way, the aim of a new lisbon strategy. we do not want a multi-speed society, we want everyone to participate in growth, economic development and knowledge development. given that we are living in a crucial moment for the economy, for the economic development of the union, it is a delusion to succeed in relaunching the lisbon strategy without being able to agree on a serious adaptation of the stability and growth pact. it would be a blow to the head. it is not possible to confront the media and say: 'we have indeed succeeded in reviving the lisbon strategy, but we left the stability pact in disarray.' that's not a solution. (applause) i would like to thank europe needs structural reforms as much as it needs a macroeconomic framework that strikes a good balance between stability on the one hand and growth and employment on the other. uncontrolled deficits are certainly not the answer in this respect. but at the same time, investments for the future cannot be made at the expense of a purely accounting approach which has nothing to do with sound economic policy. (applause) finally, i also agree with vice-president verheugen when he draws a direct link between success, the success of the financial perspective and the relaunch of the lisbon strategy. what credibility would there be in a european union which decided in march to relaunch research, to step up its actions in favour of competitiveness, to develop policies more compatible with ecological balances and then, just three months later, could not agree on the community financing of its policies for 0.01% of its gnp? let's say it's not serious. it's not realistic. (applause) i would like to thank for the next two weeks, the union will be under close observation. it can create a real new dynamic. it can also fail, thus taking great risks in terms of its future development, in terms of confidence in its economy but, which may be even more serious - and some speakers have pointed out this - in terms of the strong support that citizens must give it to succeed. the presidency, in close cooperation with the commission and in consultation with your parliament, wants to make this great partnership project that we are putting together a success. it is counting on the support of your parliament, which will be organising a major meeting on the lisbon strategy with national parliaments next week. the lisbon strategy is also a matter of democracy, it is a matter of accession, of support in our societies. without that support, success will not be at the end of the road. i believe that we have the capacity today to unleash the energies, to unleash the creativity, to unleash the spirit of innovation and initiative that europe abounds with, but let us take matters into our own hands, let us open up a new perspective for europeans and i am confident about the future.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you sincerely for this very engaging and, above all, very rich debate, in which many of you took part. i conclude that parliament gives broad support to the new lisbon strategy. i'm glad to hear it. the very positive development of our exchanges shows that the commission can see in the european parliament a real partner for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. you gave a positive answer to the request i made this morning at the opening of the debate. in her speech mrs ek almost made a slip: when she spoke of parliament's resolution, she almost said revolution. i won't say that much, it's not a revolution but it's a real reform, the one we're doing. it is also a revolution in the sense of our partnership: we are going to work together and we are all - parliament, commission, council - able to establish a dynamic consensus, not the consensus of inaction or paralysis, but a dynamic consensus for the necessary changes in our europe. these are changes that are necessary in the light of voluntary reform, but with a sense of proportion and balance. i would therefore like to answer a specific question put to me by mr turmes of the green group. you asked me, mr president, where i was when the global strategy for sustainable development was drawn up in rio in 1992. well, i was in rio. but i wasn't on the beach at ipanema or copacabana! i was the representative of the presidency of the european union, because at that time it was the portuguese presidency. i was working with the commission and the member states at the time, and europe was leading the debate on sustainable development at the rio conference. (applause) i would like to thank i say this to show you my personal commitment and the commission's commitment to the objectives of sustainable development. social cohesion, sustainable development and growth and competitiveness should not be confused. i think that's a pretty obvious conclusion from our debate. as we have always said, these are not contradictory objectives, but objectives which can be mutually reinforcing. that said, we are all now aware of the urgent need for europe to raise its growth rate. growth and job creation are particularly urgent objectives. we therefore stress the need to concentrate on short-term objectives in this area. i am of course very pleased with the debate, because we have shown that consensus is possible. however, this consensus must go beyond the european institutions and extend to the national level, to the level of national parliaments and governments. your positive response increases our joint responsibilities. the commission, for its part, will do everything in its power to ensure that the new lisbon strategy is a success. the commission now knows that it can count on the european parliament to achieve this objective. but parliament must be an active partner, taking account of the commission's requirements. the commission and the european institutions must not forget that the time for action has come. in this connection, i would like to stress the support i have received in this parliament for the priority we have given to the development of the internal market. without a genuinely functioning internal market, there will be no growth in europe. the share of services in our economy is 70%. we have a single market for goods, but we still have 25 different markets for services. the services markets must therefore be integrated, but this must of course be done taking into account the legitimate concerns raised in the debate on the services directive. that is why the commission is listening. she wants to work with you. and i want to stress our support for everything that was said yesterday by commissioner mccreevy on the services directive. we will work with you in that spirit. we believe that an internal market for services must be established and that it is possible to solve at the same time the problems which the implementation of this directive might possibly create. we are also very attentive to what has been said about human capital and the priority of human capital. many of you, including mr rasmussen, have stressed the importance of human capital, education, research and innovation, and i would also add - as mr graça moura said - culture. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. culture is also part of our knowledge economy objectives. that is why we have concrete proposals: the european institute of technology, the new research programme. we have concrete programmes to promote, at european level, an economy of growth, but also an economy based on knowledge. in this context, i am answering a specific question put to me by mr daul - whom i would like to congratulate, as president of the committee of thirty-three, as well as all the rapporteurs who made possible a broad consensus on your resolution. for our part, we agree to organise a tripartite summit on the lisbon strategy between the presidents of the three institutions. i am prepared to accept it. i hope that the president of parliament and the president of the council will support this idea. as you know, our medium-term objective is for the three institutions to work together. that said, the lisbon strategy would gain a great deal if the sense of ownership by the institutions we represent were more advanced, more profound. we now look to the european council with hope and, i dare say, with the certainty that it will in turn be able to provide the political impetus needed to revive lisbon and to draw up a european strategy for growth and employment. many of you - mr karas, mr radwan, mr watson, mr titley, mr harbour - have stressed that it is now important for the member states to commit themselves. of course, the commission now feels strengthened by the support of the european parliament for the new lisbon strategy. it is now necessary that the proposals we and the european parliament have put forward are not weakened by the time they are implemented, that the member states can also be involved and that our national public understands that the new lisbon strategy is not a decorative element but that it is truly at the centre of the programmes of economic reform, social cohesion and sustainable development in europe. in conclusion, i would like to say that for me the great conclusion of this debate is this willingness to work together, the possibility of establishing a dynamic consensus and also the broad support for the new lisbon strategy and, beyond that support, the fact that it is anchored, for the next five years, at the centre of the work of our institutions and at the centre of the reforms we need to carry out at the level of our member states. (applause) i would like to thank
rapporteur.– mr president, i have no problem with that and am happy to accept it.
in writing. "i and my british conservative colleagues have supported the report by mr. dombrovskis on the budget guidelines for 2006 because we believe it is a step in the right direction. we approve of using appropriations in a more efficient way, of demanding more clarity in the breakdown of each submitted budget proposal, and in stating that it costs more than €200 million per year to site the european parliament in brussels and strasbourg. this is a gross waste of taxpayers' money! however, reform of the eu budget is essential. fraud and maladministration can only be tackled if the right structures are put in place and so far this has been slow and inadequate. there must be better accountability and transparency in the spending of appropriations by all the eu institutions and a commitment by member states to account adequately for all expenditure on eu programmes."
in writing. i think it is imperative we foresee sufficient expenditures in areas where political decisions require greater financial engagement, in order to make amending budgets and transfers superfluous. for example, the budget for the parliamentary dimension of the wto should cover all expenditure for the european parliament's delegations to wto ministerial conferences as well as expenditure relating to the organisation of the parliamentary conference on the wto
mr president, i wish to draw the attention of the house to two matters being considered by the committee on petitions at the moment. the first concerns mike and ann radford, two constituents of mine from chipping barnet, who bought a property in cyprus in the 1980s and for 14 years have been trying to get redress from their builder for a faulty retaining wall. this is a matter which the committee on petitions has under consideration. i would urge the committee to do all it can to address the concerns of mr and mrs radford, their neighbours and people who find themselves in similar situations in many parts of europe. consumer disputes of this kind are deeply problematic and painful for the people involved and i hope the committee on petitions can help. secondly, on equitable life, my constituent, arthur white, has submitted a petition highlighting the regulatory failings that occurred in relation to equitable life. again, i would urge the committee on petitions to speed up its consideration of this important matter and do all it can to ensure that the petitioners get justice and redress.
in writing. "i and my conservative colleagues' voting decision on the resolution on the mid-term review of the lisbon agenda is based on the need for economic reform, greater labour market flexibility, more competitive taxation policies and reduced barriers to employment growth, particularly the excessive regulation that pervades many european economies. of course, the us continues to out-perform europe and the competitive challenges from asia, particularly china and india, are increasing with no apparent urgent response from national capitals in the eu. the council presidency must not be distracted by calls for the preservation of the completely outdated "european social model". it is precisely because so many governments have failed to grasp the nettle on reform that the lisbon process has sadly, to date, failed in key areas. competitive taxation policies, flexible labour markets, less red tape and a determination to tip the balance firmly in favour of the wealth creators offers the only way out of europe's relative economic decline. those things are anathema to socialists, but vital for all of us. we have voted against a number of amendments that would undermine the market and enterprise driven policies that we believe a revised lisbon agenda should champion."
in writing. i fully subscribe to the lisbon goals of strengthening employment, economic reform, enhancing competitiveness, completing the internal market, social cohesion and environmental protection as engines of a sustainable growth-orientated economy. in order to build a broad coalition for change, the lisbon strategy must be universally understood as a strategy whose benefits will be widely shared and developed in cooperation with all relevant socio-economic actors, which looks for labour markets which promote both dynamism and security, which seeks to modernise, but not to weaken, social security, and which sees high social and environmental standards as part of europe's competitive model. i believe that to revitalise the lisbon strategy is essential in order to address the failure of living up to the goals of march 2000. i welcome this opportunity to support the idea of national action plans as a way of implementing the lisbon strategy, with every government nominating a minister to coordinate action.
mr president, before i move on to the stability and growth pact, i would like to make a comment or two about the financial situation in general. i am a little disappointed to see that mr barroso, the president of the commission, seems to have disappeared, because he is going to hear a comment from a representative of the united kingdom, which is the second biggest contributor to european union funds. to date, we have contributed some gbp 180 billion. we have received back around gbp 105 billion by way of subsidies of one form or another. well, we believe that very soon there is to be a general election in the united kingdom, and i think the voters are going to want to know what has happened to that gbp 75 billion deficit in our contributions. is there going to be an answer from our current prime minister or chancellor of the exchequer? is there going to be an answer from this house? when we remind them that the european court of auditors has, for the tenth year running, refused to sign the books because billions of pounds have gone missing, they might well put two and two together as regards what has happened to our 75 billion. have we got a stability and growth pact or not? the prime minister of luxembourg, mr jean-claude juncker, recently said to reporters in brussels: ‘i am beginning to seriously consider the option of not changing the pact at all’. he added: ‘we are not excluding the scenario of leaving the pact as it is; that is now a distinct possibility. i have no goal of replacing a pact that does not work well with one that seems to function but goes wrong later’. previously he had said that the pact was dead. so what about this stability and growth pact? is it not ludicrous that countries that run up a deficit of over 3% are then fined enormous sums of money, making their position worse? of course the stability pact is wrong. it is useless! dump it!
mr president, the spring council will no doubt be dominated by the mid-term review of the lisbon agenda. this is a matter on which i have spoken on a number of occasions in recent weeks, and one that should be at the heart of the european agenda in the coming years. i simply wish to emphasise the support of the european democrats for strong action to reinvigorate that agenda. we want to see a stronger commitment by national governments to real and enduring economic reform. the president of the commission has our full support for an enterprising europe, committed to growth and prosperity. however, i also want to make it clear that we are concerned about some recent developments and emphasise the need for president barroso not to weaken his stance on eu market liberalisation by in any way undermining the services directive, which is a fundamental part of the lisbon agenda that he himself redefined only recently. there is also the working time directive: it seems to me extraordinary that there are still politicians and governments who consider that a level playing field is one in which all eu member states are equally uncompetitive. it is fundamental to our vision of europe that employers and workers should, as far as possible, decide on their own terms and conditions and working hours, and not have governments or the eu decide for them. it goes against the whole spirit of economic liberalisation and flexibility that so many of us believe in. the council will be considering other matters too, including the international situation. i wish to comment on one aspect of this: the reinvigoration of the transatlantic alliance. the visit of the president of the united states to europe last month heralded a new chapter in the world's most important geopolitical partnership. there is a real prospect now of a fresh start to that relationship, which is crucial for world security. some recent comments, including those by the german chancellor, are of great importance and need to be taken seriously. his implication that nato was no longer the pre-eminent vehicle for military defence is an issue which i feel needs to be further examined and about which i am concerned. if europe wants to be a serious partner alongside the united states in the fight against terrorism and the spread of wmd, then it must work more closely with our american friends.
president of the council. mr president, i believe that the debate on the stability and growth pact has indeed shown that there is a need for action. i particularly remember what has just been said by the last speaker who gave a signal, an encouraging message. it would be very serious if the european union, for example, were to split into old and new members on a matter such as the stability and growth pact. i think it's something very dangerous. we must approach the reform of the stability pact in a spirit which is also a spirit of solidarity. i believe that any division would be extremely pernicious and dangerous. i would also like to take up an idea which was mentioned by the last speaker, namely the importance of the institutional aspect. the commission must not be weakened, the role of the commission in the management of the stability pact must not be weakened and there is no question of the presidency in any way removing the commission from the exercise of budgetary surveillance. so this part seems very important to me. the presidency's proposals, on which no agreement has yet been reached, are obviously aimed at introducing more flexibility because there is a need for more flexibility somewhere. but at the same time they want to create a more precise framework for precisely assessing the deficit. but one deficit is not another. i think we are all sufficiently familiar with the economic rules, the economic laws, to know that one deficit is not necessarily worth another. a deficit caused by consumer spending is not to be put on the same level as a deficit caused by productive investment, investment in the future. so i think that is really the framework that the presidency would like to create to allow for a more precise assessment, without falling into arbitrariness. secondly, i think that the pact should be better situated in relation to business cycles and i would say that it should still be possible to modify an instrument of economic policy in the light of experience. we need to make sure that the rules we set for ourselves are compatible with reality. and when they do, it is important to recognize that if they do, the rules may not always be the best fit. the adaptation of the pact does not mean that we can now allow deficits to increase. moreover, those who think that letting deficits run wild would not be sanctioned are mistaken, since deficits that run a little in all directions would be quickly sanctioned by an increase in interest rates that would weigh on the investments that europe urgently needs. we have spoken a great deal this morning about the lisbon strategy, which is precisely a strategy focused on investments, among other things. so it is clear that we cannot, on the one hand, advocate a strategy focused on investment and, on the other hand, encourage anything that increases interest rates which discourages those same investments. i believe that what we want are rules that are respected, that can be respected by all, and for them to be respected by all, certain economic but also political realities must be taken into account. without wanting to target any particular country, which has already been mentioned, it must be admitted that some countries have experienced quite extraordinary events and it would not be acceptable if these extraordinary events were not, in some way, taken into account. now, on sustainable development, i can tell mrs isler-béguin that we have put a lot of emphasis on maintaining the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy, and not just maintaining it but actually integrating it into all policies. sustainable development is not somehow a small addition to everything else. it is something that should indeed inspire all policies and all policies should be assessed against a grid of sustainable development. i think that the presidency does not want to put göteborg in the closet or throw it out of the window. the strategy of sustainable development is still of great value to us. we are in favour of a horizontal approach to all environmental policy, as is already provided for in the treaty and the draft constitution. in this respect, we believe that a charter can be useful because the charter will give us a number of guiding principles to be applied in the implementation of the various policies. finally, as regards kyoto, the presidency is extremely committed to developing the post-kyoto era and if there is a sustainable development dimension, i believe it is particularly linked to this aspect: preparing for the post-kyoto era. in this respect, the presidency wants the european union to take the lead and be at the forefront of progress, at the forefront of defending our planet. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president, commission. mr president, i wish to thank all the members of the european parliament for their valuable contributions to this debate and also for their concrete ideas. this debate has shown the need for a coherent and consistent approach. we must ensure that the policies on the stability pact, the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy go hand in hand. during the debate this morning on the lisbon strategy you also made the point that the very concrete proposals we have been discussing for some time must uphold this balance. we shall do all this in the european way, which is to ensure that the creation of growth and jobs does not happen at the expense of over-using natural resources or of social policy. we must ensure that our policies include all three of those elements and that they reinforce one another. climate change is one example, as it is not only an environmental issue but also one with enormous economic and social consequences, meaning that our policies have to be designed accordingly. this is exactly what incorporating the dimension of sustainable development is all about. it brings the future and the rest of the world into the frame as well. i wish to thank all those who have raised issues concerning the lisbon strategy and assure them that the commission will take due note of all these issues. mr bonde was the only person who said he was very happy. i am glad he is happy, because his comments related to openness and transparency, which are things very close to my heart too. i would remind you that we have enhanced transparency as regards expert groups in the context of negotiations on the framework agreement. there is a new article on expert groups, and a list of the expert groups, their composition, activities, agendas and documents will be made available. that is important. unfortunately, while some members of that group put difficult questions, they have not stayed long enough to hear the responses as regards, for example, the stability pact, which is another important issue. we sometimes seem to lose sight of what has been achieved through the stability pact. just a few years ago, the economic situation in europe was totally different. the pact has helped us to re-establish financial stability in europe and enabled us to cooperate rather than to drive our currencies against each other. this is an important point which should not be forgotten. at the same time, if we are prepared to increase the flexibility of our rules, we also need to take steps to improve the quality of our cooperation at european union level. the euro has brought our economies closer together, and national economic policies have become a common concern. if we want to maintain a meaningful fiscal surveillance system then we should also strengthen our institutional settings and provide greater incentives for cooperation and sound fiscal policies in europe. the commission will continue to work in a constructive way with the luxembourg presidency to ensure it is possible for the necessary changes to be made, to modernise and to harness the progress made to reinforce our other policies. thank you for the contributions to the debate on the stability pact, which the commission considers does not need re-writing, but to be interpreted in a way that guarantees its effectiveness and credibility. the commission will look into the details of creating a charter for sustainable development, which must include very concrete policies and actions. indeed, nothing of what has been said about the stability pact, the lisbon strategy or sustainable development will lead anywhere unless we start to take action. the overall challenge for us is one of implementation: to maintain consensus, ensure best use of governance and secure the support of european citizens for what we are doing. those three issues must guide us in ensuring a successful summit meeting and, hopefully, successful implementation of what has been discussed today.
president of the council. mr president, with regard to the detained medical professionals in libya, the council remains extremely concerned about the fate of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor who were sentenced to death on 6 may 2004. the council has been following their trial closely for the past few years. the council has intervened on several occasions with the libyan authorities at the highest level, in particular to ensure a fair and just trial, especially since professors montanier and collezzi, in their final report on the hiv infection at the hospital in benghazi, had concluded that the five nurses and the doctor were innocent. in all its actions, the council has always acted in close coordination with the bulgarian authorities and with the support of other international partners. bulgaria expressed its gratitude for the action of the european union. i have met the bulgarian foreign minister yesterday to discuss this matter with him again. bulgaria will also be able to count on the council in the future to find a positive outcome. to this end, the commission has joined the council so that the european union can act in close coordination. apart from the question of responsibility in the benghazi hospital contamination case, it is clear that it has caused great emotion especially in the families of the victims but also in the population. the council therefore expressed its deep sympathy with the people infected by the virus in the hospital in benghazi. he said he was ready to show his solidarity by taking a humanitarian action in their favour. an action plan prepared by the commission is being implemented. the council is now awaiting a gesture from libya. at its meeting on 11 october 2004, the council invited libya to respond favourably to the engagement policy proposed by the european union. in this context, the council urged libya to respond to the european union's concerns, in particular in the case of the bulgarian and palestinian medical staff. the council considers that a review of the evidence will lead libya to conclude that a prompt release of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor would serve the cause of justice. the presidency assures the european parliament that the council will continue to give a high priority to this case and will do its utmost, in close coordination with the bulgarian authorities and in compliance with the competences of the authorities concerned, to achieve a positive outcome of the case which can only be the release of the sentenced persons.
commission. mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the very difficult issue of the health professionals detained in libya, which indeed casts a shadow over international relations with that country. in order to fully address this issue, it is necessary to widen the scope of the discussion to also address the issue of the families in benghazi affected by the mass hiv infection. the commission considers these to be two separate dramas, but they have been linked by the verdict pronounced in may 2004 against the bulgarian and palestinian medical staff currently detained in libya. i shall first address the issue of the benghazi families. they are confronted with this infection which, either directly or indirectly, has affected many people. we have recently been reminded again of this tragedy by the recent deaths of some of the children and adults affected. the eu has a deep understanding of the serious consequences of the kind of large-scale accidental infection that affected benghazi. having faced similar tragedies in european countries, we have developed programmes to alleviate the effects of such tragedies and a system to prevent similar outbreaks from reoccurring. we can use this extensive experience to help the libyan authorities deal with this situation and contribute to alleviating the plight of the stricken families in benghazi. on numerous occasions the commission and the eu have expressed their utmost compassion and solidarity as regards the situation in benghazi. on the basis of a technical assessment carried out by the commission in august 2004 and endorsed by the council, the eu is now implementing an action plan aimed at addressing some of the issues faced by the bengahzi families and also at enhancing capacities in the health sector in libya. the implementation of this action plan is an act of solidarity aimed at expressing eu compassion by addressing specific identified needs in libya. it is the responsibility of all of us to make sure that the action plan is implemented rapidly, completely and efficiently. in november 2004, the commission organised an international meeting to launch the action plan and it is working closely with the gaddafi foundation to implement it. success will depend on contributions by various public and private donors from the international community. i shall now address the issue of the five bulgarian and palestinian medical staff detained in libya since 1999. the eu has repeatedly expressed serious reservations over the basis on which the trial was conducted, the treatment of the defendants, and delays in the process. it therefore came as a great disappointment and a source of concern when last may they were condemned to death on grounds that remain, in the commission's view, unclear and unsatisfactory. immediately after the verdict was pronounced, the eu and the commission emphasised the importance we attach to a satisfactory and just outcome of the trial, and requested a reconsideration. an appeal process will soon be examined by the libyan supreme court. the commission has remained involved in working with the libyan authorities to reach a satisfactory outcome to this issue. the eu made two formal approaches, at prime ministerial level, on 12 june and 27 june 2004. on 3 october 2004, a commission official visited the bulgarian and palestinian medical staff to express its support for the detainees and to convey its concerns to the libyan authorities. on 11 october 2004, the council again expressed its grave concern over the plight of the medical workers and asked libya to consider the release of the medical staff on the basis of a re-examination of the existing evidence. the commission will continue to attach high priority to this dramatic issue and is constantly seeking ways to contribute to a positive outcome. it will remain in contact with the libyan authorities, the gaddafi foundation and the bulgarian authorities. i am convinced that all those concerned would like to turn the page on this tragedy as soon as possible. on the basis of the existing evidence, that is what must be done. at the same time, we will continue to focus on ways of alleviating the suffering of the benghazi families and of helping the libyan authorities build systems that will prevent a repetition of this contamination. the eu has decided to embark upon a policy of engagement with libya and has already given considerable recognition to the significant steps taken by libya to secure reintegration into the international community. libya has been invited to move towards formal relations with the eu as a mediterranean partner and as a close neighbour. in this context, the issue of the medical workers remains a serious problem and one which, as libya understands very well, needs to be brought to an acceptable end.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council and commissioner frattini for their very helpful statements. there is a double tragedy taking place in libya at the moment. on the one hand there is the awful plight of hundreds of children in benghazi infected by the hiv virus. we have the most enormous sympathy for them. i very much welcome the decision of the european union's general affairs and external relations council on 11 october 2004 to provide assistance to the libyan health services. this includes medical equipment and help in establishing a reliable and safe blood bank. the other, quite separate tragedy is that since 1999 – for over five years now – bulgarian medical workers have been imprisoned by the libyan authorities on charges allegedly related to the hiv infection. this situation was dramatically worsened on 6 may last year when a libyan court sentenced the bulgarian nurses to death by firing squad. the most reputable international experts have testified that the problem of hiv infection was due to an in-hospital infection, which began over a year before the bulgarians were hired by the benghazi hospital. there are no good grounds for the imprisonment of the bulgarian nurses. they should be released immediately. this is what the declaration of this parliament, already signed by over 100 members, is calling for. we ask the highest libyan authorities to intervene in this matter, above all on grounds of natural justice and humanity. there is also a very practical reason why this should happen. over the past year, important steps have been taken to improve the relationship between the european union and libya. this has come about because of a number of very sensible decisions taken by the libyan authorities to dismantle the libyan wmd programme and to compensate victims of terrorist attacks in which libya had been implicated. the overall objective of eu engagement is libya's full integration in the barcelona process and subsequent progress towards an association agreement. this will not happen without further action on the part of libya to meet our concerns. the most immediate of these concerns is the plight of the bulgarian and palestinian medical workers. we ask president gaddafi to release them now.
, on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, like other speakers, my heart goes out to the 400 children who have been infected by hiv and to the parents of the 40 children who have tragically died. i very much welcome the action programme that the commissioner has outlined today. we should do everything possible to assist the libyan people. however, the treatment by the libyan authorities of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian medical worker makes it very hard to take seriously libya’s proclaimed desire to rehabilitate itself within the international community. we should remind ourselves that those people were in libya to assist the libyans; to provide better healthcare for libyans. they have become scapegoats for the inadequacies of the libyan health service. it is clear that the infection at the hospital, as indicated by mr van orden, already existed. it was spread because of poor hygiene and because of the re-use of needles. a number of experts has testified that the nature of that contamination makes it almost inconceivable that it was spread deliberately. rather than simply facing up to the facts, the libyans have turned tragedy into a further tragedy and into a farce. first, they tried to blame the cia and the israeli intelligence services, saying it was a conspiracy to undermine libya. now, they have blamed the innocent bulgarian nurses, at least some of whom were tortured before being tried; the trial was clearly unfair and not properly conducted. i very much support what the council has said and would ask it to continue to pressurise the libyan government to come to its senses, to release these people and to become a normal part of the international community.
president of the council. the approach adopted was called 'standards before status' or 'standards for kosovo' and it is still relevant. the european union is also in contact with all partners with an interest in seeing the situation in kosovo evolve towards a political solution. so the european union does not wait for others to make decisions. we are in contact with our partners, but i believe that a risky and too rapid solution which does not take sufficient account of a number of outstanding problems in that country could endanger the still very fragile stability that is taking hold in kosovo.
would the president-in-office agree with me that the decision by the now ex-prime minister of kosovo, mr ramush haradinaj, to resign and to cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia is a welcome sign of the growing political maturity in the country. the response of the ethnic albanians now is absolutely critical. it has been reported that 1000 extra kfor troops have been deployed in kosovo because of the fear of rising tension. if kosovo can overcome this problem in the next day or two, i think that will augur well for a final political solution to the kosovan crisis and allow the un administration to withdraw. does he agree with that?
president of the council. madam president, the report on the situation in the member states with regard to football hooliganism for the period july 2002 to july 2003 will be discussed at the meeting of member states' experts, which is scheduled for the end of april 2005. particular attention will be paid to the expected developments in this area: the further internationalisation of football; the development of counter-strategies by troublemakers in the face of measures taken to combat hooliganism; solutions to reduce or even abolish internal border controls in line with the evolution of the union; the introduction of forms of extremism into the violence associated with sporting events; the gradual and continuous commercialisation of football; and the agglomeration of hooligans into groups acting as such and no longer individually.
president-in-office, i discovered this report and was keen that during your presidency you put further pressure on uefa in particular and, if necessary, fifa, to move us towards a position where football is truly a family sport. at the moment it is being scarred not just by hooliganism but, as you said, also by racism. in your view, does uefa issue stiff enough penalties, particularly in international football? what is being done about national football? some pressure should be put on countries like, for instance, italy, the netherlands, germany and my own country to ensure that football is truly a family sport. is there anything you can do during your presidency to make that a reality?
president of the council. the presidency attaches great importance to these phenomena which take place in the stadiums and which are not only hooliganism but also racism. in collaboration with uefa and the national football federations, we must fight with great determination against these phenomena, which are damaging the image of a sport that is otherwise quite useful and popular.
following on from that, would the council care to comment on the lackadaisical attitude by the football authorities as regards what happened at the england v. spain game, where there was lots of racist chanting? it seems to me that racism and hooliganism in football are combining. it is the same sort of group of people, who are not football fans, who are responsible for this. the council seems to have very few views on the subject. i wonder whether it could expand slightly more?
president of the council. transatlantic relations are not limited to summit meetings. there are constant contacts on all subjects, at all levels, not only at the level of foreign ministers, but also at the level of justice ministers, focused on the fight against crime, on the fight against terrorism. here's the plan. in addition, we will have a new summit, which we are already working on, with a broader agenda, which will also include economic cooperation. the summit will take place in june and i believe it will prove that the relaunch of the transatlantic dialogue is a strong relaunch with very clear objectives.
if there has indeed been a relaunch of transatlantic relations, then that is good news for the middle east peace process, because there can be no peace in the middle east without both eu and us involvement. will the council take advantage of this new climate to up the tempo of meetings of the quartet and the road map to peace in the middle east, in order to lend greater impetus to that process?
i hope that the council is very shocked by its own reply. organised crime crosses frontiers in europe very easily and we need to work together as member states and as european institutions to fight against it. so what you are telling me, president-in-office, is that there is no coordination at all between the activities of the secret services of the member states. should there not be some coordination?
president of the council. the council would remind the honourable member that the freedom of information regime for the european union programme office, which manages the peace i and peace ii programmes and other community initiatives in the united kingdom and ireland, falls within the competence of the member states concerned. the council further draws the attention of the honourable member to the fact that it is the commission's responsibility to ensure the proper application of council regulation no 1260/99 of 21 june 1999 laying down general provisions on the structural funds, as amended by the council on 24 january 2005, as regards the extension of the duration of the peace programme, given that the management of these funds is a matter of shared responsibility between the european commission and the governments of the member states on the basis of a close partnership.
surely it is a matter of concern to the council when two member states combine to exclude an eu monitoring body from their indigenous freedom of information legislation and so exempt it from provisions on providing the public with information that is available from all internal governmental bodies in those states. in particular, should it not be a matter of concern for the council that those two states have indulged in five years of default in terms of producing a voluntary code of practice for those implementation bodies under the seupb?
mr president, it is difficult to overstate the importance of this debate in the current hand-wringing over the lisbon agenda. the reality is that if we do not invest in research and, more importantly, involve the business community in that research process, we will not upscale our economies. the pan-union coordination adds a clear value. so it is all the sadder that the commission proposals – which i broadly support – are under threat from my own uk government, with its insistence on cuts to the eu budget and with little detail on where the axe should fall. i support the broad thrust of this report and would add my words of congratulation to the rapporteur, with the rest of the house. i have some reservations about the details and i hope that our amendments will strengthen the report tomorrow. i would, in supporting the commission, particularly stress the importance of simplifying the procedures in fp7, because the message i have heard loud and clear from scotland is that the administration and the bureaucracy have been major off-putting factors in previous framework programmes. from what the commissioner has said this evening, i think that message has been received loud and clear, although i look forward to receiving his actual proposals.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize to the honourable member, but i can only say that the commissioner responsible, mr dimas, has informed me that he would not be able to be in the chamber today because of personal commitments. of course, i do not know the exact nature of those commitments, but i gladly agreed to replace him. in any case, i believe that the speech i am going to make in this house has been defined by your offices and your directorate-general and is fully shared by commissioner dimas. the commitment made by heads of state and government in gothenburg to halt the decline in the use of biodiversity by 2010 is recognised as a key element of the eu's sustainable development strategy. nature and biodiversity are included in the main priorities for action. the successful implementation of the natura 2000 network will be the cornerstone of the eu's effort. ensuring that natura 2000 is adequately financed is therefore one of the top priorities. it is in this context that, on 15 july 2004, the commission adopted its communication on the financing of natura 2000. the communication looked at all possible options, including the establishment of a separate fund, and concluded that the most effective approach would be to integrate the funding of natura 2000 into existing community financial instruments. the new structural fund regulations now under discussion in the council provide for the financing of natura 2000 and also include mechanisms for guidance and control by the commission of the programmes the member states submit. the commission is aware that there is concern in parliament about the priority member states will give to natura 2000 when faced with competing demands on limited budgets. it is argued that firmer guarantees and ring-fencing of funds are needed. the commission cannot support such a rigid approach. it is not possible at this stage to give a precise indication of the amounts likely to be spent annually on cofinancing natura sites from 2007 onwards. the needs of member states will probably be very different. therefore, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, it will be up to each member state to decide on the requirements of its natura 2000 network in drawing up national programmes for different funding regulations. nevertheless, the commission has proposed an element of ring-fencing that will assist the second axis of natura 2000 in land management or rural development regulations. that requires member states to allocate a minimum of 25% of the total for this fund to this axis, which means that at least eur 22.75 billion will be available for land management during the 2007-2013 period. support from the european parliament in safeguarding that amount will be crucial. in preparing their structural and rural development fund programmes, the member states will need to take note of the priorities to be identified in the strategic guidelines, which will be issued by the commission following approval of the funding regulation. as natura 2000 has been clearly identified in a structural and rural development fund proposal, natura 2000 will be identified as a community priority in a strategic guideline for the relevant fund.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development.– mr president, i believe that the report by mrs auken sends a very strong message to the commission that proper funding for the natura 2000 network is a very high priority for this parliament too. i am pleased that the main points of the opinion of the committee on regional development have been taken on board in the report. the structural funds must be part of the funding mechanism for natura 2000, but there must also be a clear commitment that the money will be spent on specific, authorised objectives; in other words, that the money is earmarked and that the release of that money is conditional on national natura 2000 financing plans being in place in the member states. mainstreaming environmental considerations into all eu policy work is the way forward. i welcome the integrated approach of the commission. one of the most important features of natura 2000 is that it reflects that integrated approach; it puts people at the heart of the process and, in particular, people who live and work in our rural areas. as well as aiming to stop the decline in biodiversity in europe, natura 2000 creates and sustains jobs, supports agriculture, forestry and rural development and provides tourism and educational opportunities. but the truth is that support from the structural funds or the rural development budget will not be enough on its own to fund natura 2000. that is why it must go hand-in-hand with life+ and a dedicated fund. our main concern is that we have effective funding options to ensure that this ambitious scheme to safeguard and support europe’s natural heritage actually succeeds in its aim.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, before turning to the question of natura 2000 itself, i would like to raise an objection to the way in which the committee on regional development was bulldozed into an emergency meeting on this matter on monday night. there was very little time to consider. we were told there would be an enormous outlay of eur 6 billion, and now the commissioner says that a minimum of eur 22.75 billion will be made available for the 2006-2013 period. to compound matters, there was only one translation available, in english. i was disappointed to see the committee on regional development voting in favour, although it did not do so unanimously, as mr hegyi stated, as i and several others voted against. this episode is a perfect illustration of the cavalier way in which this parliament too often goes about its business, and that is no laughing matter given the profound effect the eu has on people’s daily lives. natura 2000 is a case in point. although we all appreciate that the environment is very important, the livelihood of human beings has to be the priority. natura 2000 has had a negative effect in this regard. let me give a good example from the czech republic, where an area has been designated to create feeding habitats favourable to partridges and quails and to reduce the erosion of soil and nutrients. my czech colleagues tell me that this has been very good for the quails, but disastrous for the human beings who live and work there! in the united kingdom too, chalk downland, dry bog and hedgerows have been destroyed in the name of eu standardisation. the habitats directive, from which natura 2000 derives, seeks to establish a common framework for nature protection as though wildlife were subject to academic theory. nature, by definition, cannot be standardised, nor can real human lives, which is why ukip opposes the dead hand of the eu wherever its grip extends.
mr president, as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development and as a sugar producer and grower, i will not be taking part in the final vote today. however, i will take part in the debate. that does not necessarily apply to the commission proposals when they come out. but today i will not be voting in the final vote.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, over-production of sugar is another manifestation of the obscene common agricultural policy that protects certain producers for political reasons and penalises consumers for the same political reasons. the french produce 160% of their domestic requirements in sugar, and dump the rest on the third world. the british produce 50% of their requirements, and import the remainder from african, caribbean and pacific countries. british sugar producers act responsibly and are not the cause of the problem. they will suffer through ill-considered so-called reforms. real reform for britain will only be accomplished when we withdraw from the common agricultural policy, and indeed from the european union itself. this resolution has left a sour taste with british sugar producers, many of whom have written to me and my british colleagues. the uk independence party will vote against the resolution and its amendments, which will damage the interests of british sugar producers.
mr president, the beginning of 2005 marks the introduction of the eu's new cap reforms. the cap reforms require european farmers to become more competitive and efficient, while maintaining sustainable environment-friendly farming practices. the single farm payment requires farmers to produce the goods demanded by the marketplace. the sugar regime therefore needs to be reformed in order to fit in to our new agricultural policy. i welcome the communication from the european commission, which aims to remove trade-distorting subsidies from the eu sugar regime. however, there are several areas that still need improvement. european sugar prices currently stand at nearly three times the world price, and these artificially high prices must be reduced. at the same time, though, a full liberalisation of the sugar market would have an adverse effect, not only on the european sugar industry but also on the african, caribbean and pacific countries and less-developed countries. a large price cut would place acp and ldc countries at a competitive disadvantage in relation to countries that can produce sugar at a very low world price, notably brazil. oxfam has claimed that unfettered liberalisation will harm the most vulnerable. brazilian expansion would also be at the cost of thousands of acres of rainforest and savannah that contain precious biodiversity and wild life. it is necessary to bring the sugar regime into line with cap reforms, and we must abandon c quota, which i believe will be ruled illegal by the wto. also, when we make quota cuts, it is b quota that should be targeted first, because it is this quota that is being exported onto the world markets, thereby distorting trade. we must follow the cap principles we have established. in order to establish competitive sugar production in the eu there must be cross-border quota transfers to allow more efficient areas of the eu to be ...(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, whilst i admire the way my colleagues have pursued the interests of farmers and share their anxiety about the future of farming, i cannot agree with the approach they outline in the resolution. i much prefer the approach outlined by the commissioner this morning. a 33% reduction in price support for sugar, a reduction in the quota and an end to export subsidies for sugar would all send a powerful signal to the doha development round. if the commissioner's timing can be adhered to and we can adopt our final proposal in november, this would create a very good environment in advance of the december hong kong meeting. it would help to obtain a settlement at that meeting and any settlement would benefit both the developing and the developed world. that would be good news. my colleagues are also wrong about farmers, because their proposal would not provide certainty for farmers and would give them false expectations of the support they can expect in the future. finally, the 60% compensation scheme is equivalent to full compensation and the commissioner should keep reiterating that.
mr president, the commissioner has heard many speeches today, as well as my remarks at the beginning of the debate this morning. i believe that one country has caused this whole problem. madam commissioner, when we go to the hong kong round, in my view you are slightly mistaken to think that reforming the sugar industry will give us a strong position in europe. i was present at cancún, and if my memory serves me correctly, mr fischler had done a pretty good job of reforming the common agricultural policy. but it was quite clear that no-one actually understood what had been done. the americans, in particular, seemed to draw the line and say ‘we are not going to do anything except protect our agriculture and our business’. it is clear that the sugar industry needs reforming: we have been dumping sugar on the world market and destroying it. but have we actually destroyed the world market or, is it brazil, as mr kreissl-dörfler has just said? mr graefe zu baringdorf mentioned acp and ldc countries. let us be absolutely clear that the ldc and acp countries want access to our market, at market prices; that means keeping prices reasonably high in the european union, so that they can have access at the prices they believe are safe for them. i say to mr martin that i was surprised that the pse group tabled so many amendments, particularly to the resolution. i did not realise its members felt they had the right to be spokesmen for the ldc and acp countries, which have a slightly different view from what is proposed in their amendments. i leave you with one last thought. it is clear that the reform of the sugar industry will only benefit multinational companies, not the ldc and acp countries. (applause)
mr president, i welcome this debate because, following the reform of the cap, farmers need to look at alternative methods of increasing farm incomes. for some farmers this could be organic farming. in northern ireland we have a small but determined organic sector. local supply and local branding are keys to success. there is little point in the farmers in the united kingdom diversifying into organic production only to be undermined by products from south america coming in at a lower cost. products from outside the united kingdom may be organically produced, though in truth little is known as to whether environmental damage is done in producing some of those goods. the number of air miles involved in transporting the products is also a consumer concern. those issues need to be factored into the wto negotiations. i am also concerned about united kingdom organic farmers being undermined by products from eastern european countries. again, short food miles and local branding are essential.
mr president, organic farming means nature governing food, but the eu wants a law of nature written in brussels. the eu wishes to harmonise organic products and production, with more eu regulations and more eu snoopers. it is ‘straight banana’ time again! organic products come in all shapes and sizes, but the eu cannot accept that. the eu believes that nothing should escape manic control. people are selling food in pounds and ounces. when they are caught they are treated as criminals. why? because this is eu control for the sake of it. the report praises the common agricultural policy, which was one of the worst eu mistakes ever. the cap destroyed areas of british agriculture, and now the eu wants to destroy british organic agriculture. ukip wants to see organic farming flourishing, not buried under tonnes of eu manure.
mr president, i welcome this report on organic food and farming. the growth of this industry in some member states is to be applauded, but it must be acknowledged that some member states have provided less financial support than others. these include the united kingdom, where nothing more than lip service has been paid to the development of organic farming. i realise that you cannot force people either to grow or to eat organic food. however, i strongly believe that you should encourage both, and that if the will is there the desire will be there too. we now have an opportunity to encourage diversification. following the mid-term review, farmers are looking for alternative ways to carry on their business. unfortunately, i believe that leaving this to member states would be a total disaster. many will do nothing to either encourage demand or improve marketing for organic farming, which faces the same challenges as other branches of the industry, with the growing power of multinationals squeezing profit margins and dictating standards. organic production is no longer a niche market. it is the long-term future of agriculture. the support provided to organic farming should be used to help open up new opportunities for the sector and to create an alternative to so-called conventional farming. both sectors have a future, side-by-side. both must be mutual and complementary. the one thing i now see clearly is that there are no real level playing fields in agricultural production, be this organic or conventional, and i firmly believe you can only achieve this from the centre and with positive encouragement.
mr president, a few minutes ago we were called in this parliament to observe a moment of silence in memory of those who died in the terrorism events in spain and to remember all those of our constituents who have died from terrorism. it was a solemn moment; it was a special moment; it was a potent moment. every member of this house was silent, all our visitors in the gallery were silent, but that silence was wrecked by the noise of a camera clicking away persistently. mr president, i ask that when we have a moment of solemn silence it should mean silence for the cameramen and everybody in this chamber and not just for those on the ground floor. (applause)
mr president, i do not wish to delay this house too much longer, but i would like to make one trenchant point. we were summoned here to vote, originally at 12.00, then at 12.15 and now here we are voting at nearly 12.40. you will be aware that there is a strike on today and travelling is excessively difficult. a number of colleagues are having to leave at unearthly hours because they have to make different travel arrangements and, consequently, will not be able to participate in all the votes. it is a constant disgrace that business is chopped and changed in this parliament without consulting those who really count: the members sitting here. (applause)
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have abstained on the resolution concerning the 4th world conference on women because we do not believe that it deals with the most vital issues appropriately or in a truly practical way. the over-prescriptive references to 'gender mainstreaming', 'gender-based budgeting' and the call for rigid enforcement of quota systems are examples of this. the conservative party leads the way in championing respect and rights for women. human trafficking, prostitution and genital mutilation are just some of the horrors facing girls and women in developing countries. but they cannot be dealt with only through financial aid, though aid is clearly needed; nor can they be dealt with by legislation, although legislation can of course help in appropriate cases. womens' freedom will only be guaranteed if there is a proper programme of education extending to both sexes and vigorously pursued.
in writing. hiroshima was devastated by an atomic bomb sixty years ago this summer. including the effects of radiation poisoning, the five-year death total was over two hundred thousand, almost two thirds of the city's population. in may the nuclear non proliferation treaty (npt) comes up for another five-year review by those countries that are party to it. the treaty regime is weaker than it has been since its entry into force in 1970. if this vital security instrument is to continue to be effective, it is highly important that the central bargain be revived by the npt nuclear weapon states, led by washington, at the review conference. 1962 saw predictions of as many as 25 to 30 nuclear weapons states with such weapons integrated into their arsenals by the end of the 1970s. this could have resulted in over forty such nations today, leaving nuclear weapons vulnerable to the hands of terrorists. but it did not happen. today there are only two more states with nuclear weapon programmes than there were in 1970... (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. while we support a robust npt and steps to curtail the nuclear programmes of north korea and iran, we have abstained on this resolution because we are not in agreement with the following paragraphs in particular: paragraphs 10 and 19 - we believe that conventional forces alone cannot ensure credible deterrence, that nuclear weapons make a unique contribution in rendering the risks of aggression against the uk and its allies incalculable and unacceptable and consequently that they remain essential to preserving peace;paragraph 15 - we do not agree that the eu has a role in coordinating intelligence;paragraph 17 - we believe that the presence of united states conventional and nuclear forces in europe remain vital to the security of the continent and consequently it would be wrong to call on "the usa to clarify the situation of the quantity and strategic objectives of its tactical nuclear arsenals stationed on european bases";paragraph 18 - israel has not declared that it possesses nuclear weapons and therefore it is in appropriate to include israel in this context;paragraph 31 - the united states has not declared that it would "not engage in preventive military action against iran", and it would be wrong to rule out any option at this stage.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports the resolution on the situation in lebanon, in particular its focus on the importance of free, democratic and transparent parliamentary elections, the need for a complete and rapid withdrawal of syrian forces and intelligence, and hopes for reform to spread across the wider middle east. however it is important to clarify that the military wing of hezbollah is already listed as a terrorist organisation by the united kingdom, whereas the political wing is under constant review. hezbollah represents significant public support in lebanon, and our hope should be that hezbollah rejects terrorism and embraces the political process.
in writing. we voted against, categorically against, the second part of paragraph 6. we, on the other hand, refuse to distinguish between the political and the military wing of a terrorist movement, in this case hezbollah. and we bitterly regret that the amendment calling on the union to put it on its list of terrorist organisations has been withdrawn. this is the party of god whose charter calls for the destruction of the state of israel and the establishment of an islamic republic in lebanon. this hezbollah, whose emblem is a machine gun and whose motto calls for victory of the only congregation of allah. would not this movement, which has been responsible for bombings, hijackings, kidnappings, torture and murder too many to mention, be a terrorist organization? of course you do, and we all know it. the real question, which divides the council, is whether it is appropriate to say so. we believe that the text was sufficiently clear not to cut the bridges. the european parliament is not the council's sounding board, it has just missed the opportunity to send a clear political signal to all those in the world who are fighting our values of democracy and freedom.
in writing. i welcome this report's emphasis on achieving the lisbon objectives through various means. it is vital to improve framework conditions for private research, since in it is estimated that the eu needs 700 000 new, adequately skilled researchers by 2010 if the target of 3% of gdp investment in research and development (r&d) is to be reached. furthermore, to reach this target, two thirds of the investment in research should come from the business sector. the kok report on the lisbon strategy has also identified “increasing europe's attractiveness for researchers and scientists” and “making r&d a top priority” among the policy areas requiring urgent action. i agree with the report that making europe more competitive requires appropriate financial means. there should be sufficient coupling at european and national level to ensure a uniform quality of funded projects. i also welcome the call to increase support for r&d and innovation in renewable energies following the international conference for renewable energies (bonn, june 2004).
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are voting for this report but with one important proviso. nothing in any of our votes should be taken to mean that we support an increase in the overall eu budget. we do support the creation of a budget entry sufficient to support life funding for nature protection and biodiversity which we do not feel will be adequately protected or financed under the commission's present plans. it is vital that, now we have created the natura 2000 network, we are prepared to find the money to continue to finance it where necessary.
the labour members voted against this resolution for a number of reasons. firstly, we think it is bad for the world trade talks because it undermines the seriousness of our commitment to a genuine reform of the world system. we voted against it because we think it is bad for farmers: farmers need certainty above all and this resolution would not provide that. we voted against it because we think it is bad for the european food industry: half a million european jobs depend on industries that use sugar and they will be facing higher sugar prices than the rest of their competitors throughout the world. and we voted against it because we think it is bad for the developing world. we will still be taking badly needed markets from developing countries. we hope that parliament will think again and that when the commission brings forward its draft legislative resolution we can have a different debate and a different approach to this issue, because the resolution we are adopting today simply does not solve the problems of the european sugar market.
in writing. the british conservatives support the oral question and resolution on the common organisations of the markets in sugar. it is necessary to reform the sugar market in order bring it in line with cap reform. however, time must be allowed for sugar production in the eu, acp and ldcs to adapt to an open market situation. we are disappointed that the report does not support the cross border quota transfer within the eu which would allow sugar producers in europe to become more efficient and competitive.
in writing. on behalf of the eplp i would like to outline why we will not be voting in favour of the fruteau/daul resolution. this resolution follows an oral question from the agriculture committee, ands aims to give a de facto ep position on sugar ahead of the commission's legislative proposals. the development, trade, budgets, consumers and the environment committees are all concerned by this complex issue. we need reform in the sugar sector not only due to wto pressures but also because we need a competitive eu food industry, to maintain jobs and a viable industry. we need a proper single market in sugar which this resolution does not address. we need to help the least developed countries by allowing them access to eu markets, but this needs to be discussed fully not determined by an oral resolution. we need to support the commission in their efforts to bring this complex sector into line with other cap reforms not argue to retain the status quo.
mr president, i wish to draw your attention to the global security fund, set up in the early 1990s under the auspices of jacob rothschild. this is a brussels-based fund and it is no ordinary fund: it does not trade, it is not listed and it has a totally different purpose. it is being used for geopolitical engineering purposes, apparently under the guidance of the intelligence services. i have previously asked about the alleged involvement of the european union’s own intelligence resources in the management of slush funds in offshore accounts, and i still await a reply. to that question i now add another: what are the european union’s connections to the global security fund and what relationship does it have with european union institutions?
mr president, i wish to protest at the decision of mr berretta, the chief executive officer of eutelsat, to discontinue the contract for new tang dynasty television, a us-based global channel that is the only free uncensored chinese-language broadcaster to reach mainland china, much to the anger of the communist government there. this termination allegedly followed commercial threats by the people’s republic of china to withdraw the beijing 2008 olympic tv broadcasting contracts. the eu, although understandably eager to trade with china, must not compromise on its commitment to fundamental human rights, which include freedom of expression and conscience and access to a free media. the matter is currently before the french courts, but i am sure that this house will join me in asking the president of this parliament to write to eutelsat demanding a full explanation of why it is breaking its own charter committed to upholding media freedom.
mr president, two years ago a young man from london named jeremiah duggan died when he was hit by vehicles on a motorway near wiesbaden in germany. the german authorities very quickly decided that it was a case of suicide and failed even to take witness statements or statements from those who last saw him. there seems to have been a deliberate avoidance of considering all the facts in the case. in spite of considerable evidence gathered by mrs erica duggan, his mother, that jeremiah died in very worrying and suspicious circumstances, last week the hessen state prosecutor decided not to investigate. the evidence she presented concerns the organisation that jeremiah was involved in immediately before he met his death and which appears to be a sinister anti-semitic sect. it may be that he was being hounded by it and mentally tortured. it is called the lyndon larouche network or the schiller institute. it recruits young people in europe to a dangerous cult. some of its ideas are plain rubbish but there are also plenty of destructive, anti-semitic conspiracy theories. in these circumstances, the position of the prosecutor that her job is not to safeguard the public from known dangers is inexplicable. i shall be raising this with mep colleagues and may wish to ask you to intervene at an appropriate time. the european convention on human rights imposes an obligation to protect life, which must mean investigating suspicious deaths.
mr president, today i would like to start a process of naming and shaming those member states that fail to implement european directives. there are currently 83 lisbon directives which we have passed in the european parliament. out of sixty-three that should have been implemented by now, only ten have been fully implemented. today i would like to mention the electricity directive which should have been implemented by 1 june 2004. those countries that have not implemented the electricity directive are belgium, germany, greece, spain, ireland, latvia, luxembourg, poland and portugal. sweden has yet to notify the commission of its legislation implementing the electricity directive. i believe that the lisbon agenda is in jeopardy. it is time we put pressure on the member states. i would like you, mr president, to write to those governments asking them when they intend to implement the directive.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i am grateful for the very full speech of minister frieden, outlining the council’s output in 2004. however, it hardly engaged the well-known dissatisfaction of this parliament with both the quality and the manner of eu justice and home affairs developments at all. a complete culture change is required in the council, such that this parliament is treated as a true partner. the fact that the minister said that we should not spend too much time worrying about the legal basis of the data-retention proposal is absolutely symptomatic of the fact that the council just does not get it! it potentially makes a big difference, both to the degree of privacy infringement and to the degree of openness and democracy in decision-making, whether that proposal is based in eu law or is simply intergovernmental. the cavalier way that privacy concerns are treated in the council is deeply worrying. more and more proposals infringe data protection norms. it is a slippery slope. the ultimate goal will become – or is already – the linking-up of the whole series of eu and national databases on personal habits, biometric information and probably, eventually, dna. this needs a serious public debate, mediated through this parliament, on the basis of thorough privacy impact assessments accompanying each proposal. however, what we are getting is a process of salami slicing, where each new proposal removes a little more protection against invasions of privacy. this sly and shadowy method is not a clever strategy because if the european public one day finds it does not like the system of surveillance constructed, it will react strongly. i urge the minister to persuade interior ministries and home offices to change the habits of a lifetime and be open, candid and accountable in their dealings.
mr president, like many eu harmonising proposals, this report has, at first glance, a certain plausible appeal. however, only the naive would fail to recognise it as part of a jigsaw for an integrated european criminal justice system, leading ultimately to the subservience of our national systems, not least in the vital area of how we should be free to tackle terrorism. as the committee on legal affairs has commented, the proposal should be considered as a point of departure rather than of arrival. if the concern is to guarantee minimum human rights, then the apparatus already exists under the european convention on human rights at its court in this city. it is clear, however, that the eu's ambition is to garner that role to itself. i must say, as a british citizen and, indeed, as a lawyer, that the savage experience of several british citizens abroad buttresses my view that we have little to gain but much to lose from extensive criminal justice integration. the scandalous treatment of dinesh sakaria in sweden, the spectacle made of the british plane-spotters in greece, and the appalling conviction of kevin sweeney in the netherlands convinces uk citizens that they are best served by maintaining the procedures and bulwarks of their common-law-based system rather than ever being tempted to trade it in for the flawed continental model. if these things can happen – and they have happened – with these countries supposedly adhering to the european convention on human rights, then moving the coordination from the council of europe to the european commission will contribute nothing to the effective guarantee of individual rights in real terms.
mr president, of course some minimum standards are desirable. i do not question that. i am sure that we all believe in justice: justice for suspected criminals and justice for the people we represent; and human rights for suspected criminals but also human rights for all our constituents. however, we must not be naive: these proposals and the way in which they are being promoted by some in this house give all suspected criminals the same procedural safeguards. but a terrorist is not the same, for instance, as a burglar, and must be handled differently. we are experiencing an international crisis and we can allow nothing to undermine our fight against terrorism and those that perpetrate it. our responsibilities are primarily – as they should be – to the vast majority of innocent men, women and children in our various countries and their rights: their rights to enjoy their lives without fear of violence or sudden death perpetrated by these appalling terrorists. this proposal does little to help us in our work or indeed to help those innocent people, especially at a time when our efforts should be directed primarily to helping the law enforcement agencies of our various countries, rather than tying their hands behind their backs. those on the left of this house offer little help to those who need it, especially to those who need our protection and our support.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group supports the rapporteur and congratulates him very much for his work. we shall be voting in favour. this is only one small step in the massive challenge we face in fighting cross-border organised crime, given the open borders we have in europe which criminals utilise and cross so easily. there is a great deal more to do. i want to put a suggestion to you as a next step. probably the biggest benefit of the european police college will be policemen getting to know each other and working together for the first time. this is so important because today, that is the way in which we fight organised crime. at present, when one hears about a crime across a border, policemen pick up the telephone and say ‘well, i know somebody over there. i think i can work with him’. the theoretical idea of joint investigation teams is not working. there is political interference, things are going slowly, they are just not working and, at the moment, organised cross-border crime is being fought by policemen with personal connections. if they do not have them, things do not work. commissioner, there is no facility for policemen across europe to find contacts unless they already know them. there is no central point in the eu where policemen can go to find their contact in, for example, lithuania, portugal, the uk or italy. they cannot find their connections unless they know them personally. could you, commissioner, therefore propose a directive, budget or whatever is necessary to set up a central information point where the names and telephone numbers of the people responsible in the 25 countries can be reached quickly before criminals escape?
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this directive is causing alarm amongst hauliers in the uk. drivers say that they will lose gbp 80 per week. the industry says that it will cost gbp 1 billion a year and cause a shortfall of 65 000 drivers, ramping up prices and knocking uk trade. the uk government tells us it does not provide a uk view because it was felt to be ‘inappropriate’ given that the uk would be holding the presidency of the council. is this what we expect from the modern labour party, which rolls over to be tickled on the issues vital to the uk and all because it wants to suck up to the eu and look presidential? so heaven help our truckers! does labour represent them any more? ‘inappropriate’ to give a uk view? tell british truckers and businesses, because they will bear the cost. this report comes from the german perspective at the centre of europe, ideally placed no matter which way they drive. however, a lorry from birmingham takes much longer to reach the target. these proposals will cripple british ability to compete in europe. eu supporters say it is all about road safety, but the eu is really all about money, power and control. these proposals will put a lucrative spy beaming up to galileo in every trucker’s cab. private vehicles will possibly be next. look out truckers, because big barrot is watching you. so shout to him and say: ‘this will take my truck off the road!’ or, in short, ‘truck off!’.
mr president, i wish to begin by explaining to the house that in his opening remarks my fellow countryman, mr nattrass, was confusing the application of the working time directive to the transport industry with this directive. as for the rest of his rantings, they were as incomprehensible to me as they were to everybody else, and i notice that he has not bothered to stay for the rest of the debate. i welcome this directive because, as the commissioner said, the current proposals are 20 years old. a lot has changed in that time: the abolition of frontiers, the single customs document and better roads, which means you can now drive for long periods of time without any natural interruption. we have an eu of 25 member states, covering 1.5 million square miles of territory. therefore it is vital for road safety to have a consistent set of rules across the european union. it is currently possible to drive for up to 8 hours and 59 minutes with only a 15-minute break. that is unacceptable: tiredness kills, and failing to modernise these proposals would be irresponsible. however, it is important that the legislation be workable and enforceable, not only simply, but also consistently across the eu. therefore, i welcome parliament’s proposals to require new vehicles to be fitted with digital tachographs at least from 2006. the commission is wrong to insist stubbornly on its position, given that only two out of the three potential tachograph suppliers are able to test pre-production models at the moment and are not able to go into full production. it is important that the break periods be simple and easy to understand and that a degree in mathematics is not required to apply them! it is also important to have derogation for essential services delivered in the interests of the public, no matter the nature of the body that delivers those services. i welcome the committee’s proposals on bus and coach services, provided that we can differentiate between the leisure industry and the express-coach industry. however, i still remain to be convinced that certain proposals can be enforced and understood. i recognise the problems with the express-vehicle industry but i am not sure how these proposals can be enforced. i do not think retrofitting digital tachographs is feasible at a cost that most people could afford. i also question whether it would be possible to scrutinise the application of the working time directive in this directive, given that most of the records would be held back at base and not in the lorry concerned.
mr president, as i said when this regulation first came before this house, the concept of this proposal is in my view impractical, untenable and unenforceable. that is why, with the help of some of my colleagues from across the political spectrum, i have submitted an amendment to have this proposal rejected in its entirety. i would like to focus my contribution to this debate on the very essence of what the proposal means to people in my constituency, which i am sure is mirrored across the whole of the european union. at present bus services in rural areas, where many people are elderly and rely on public transport, are run by small and medium-sized companies, which the eu claims to be the backbone of the economy. yet legislation like this will cripple their very existence. proposals for rest hours will mean increased cost to the consumer and industry alike, reduced services and, in some cases, no service at all. in the commercial sector, just-in-time delivery systems, the backbone of modern-day supply for industry, will be jeopardised. this again will mean increased cost to the consumer and industry alike. in the uk alone it is estimated that the cost of this regulation and the working time directive together will be over gbp 1 billion, and that is not my figure, it is the industry’s. the argument of road safety used by many does not wash from my point of view. we must stop claiming that over-regulation means safer roads. the uk, with less regulation, probably has the safest roads in europe. this proposal has little to do with road safety, and more to do with an ingrained anti-road agenda from the european commission. by their very nature, british conservatives oppose such restrictive legislation being piled on business and the consumer, and we are not alone. this proposal takes no account of the need for flexibility in key areas of the transport sector, pays scant regard to the consumer and is contemptuous of the need for europe’s industry to remain competitive. i therefore have no hesitation in urging this house to support our key amendment to reject the proposal in its entirety.
rapporteur.– mr president, i consider this report, which we will vote on later today, to be one of the most important reports that this parliament will vote on during this session. i say that not because it is in my name, but because of its content and the great deal of hard work that has gone into it. i thank those from the court, the commission, those member states with which i have had dealings and also the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control. without them this report would not be the document that it is, and i give them heartfelt thanks. if its recommendations are implemented by the institutions, then the holy grail of a positive statement of assurance – das – will be in sight. however, to get to that point we will need some real commitment and cooperation from the commission, the court of auditors and the member states. from paragraph 25 onwards, the report outlines the lack of perfection within the das methodology. it makes the point that the money within our accounts can be totally legal and regular but that, at the same time, it can be absolutely wasted. that is one of the main failings of the das and why the report’s recommendations encourage the court to improve upon the changes it has already made. from the commission’s point of view, whatever the das methodology improvements may be, the commission and the member states still need to make changes. the commissioner must do several things. as with every report this parliament votes on, we always ask the commission to do extra things. and apart from such items as implementing a community internal control framework, we are asking that. here, however, a contentious matter in certain areas, certainly within the commission itself, is an issue raised in paragraph 8 and amendment 4. i would wholeheartedly call on members to support this amendment, which calls on the accounting officer to sign off the commission accounts. it must be said that until that is agreed, the commission will always be attacked, and amendment 4 spells that out quite clearly. i have a lot of respect and regard for commissioner kallas and i am encouraged by his positive attitude. i call on him not to let the battle of hierarchies within the directorates-general prevent this from being implemented. it is a key part of these recommendations. however, whatever we ask the court and the commission to do, the positive das will not be attainable unless the member states accept their responsibilities, which include their political responsibilities in the control and management of european union funds. paragraph 16 outlines the problems quite clearly. the disclosure statement, as described in paragraph 19, shows how the problems can be solved. this report is trying to anchor the member states’ responsibilities not only at administrative level but also at a political level. this is, after all, a shared management process. it is about time that the other half of this shared management began taking its responsibilities more seriously. in that context, the report states – near the end of my section – that progress is not possible without member states’ active participation. that is why the committee and the report, if it is adopted, proposes to invite you, mr president, in your speech to the next european council, to address the need to improve member states’ financial management of funds from the european union. i hope you can do that. for me, this report has been a fascinating exercise. it is the culmination of ten years of trying to see a positive statement of assurance. ten years ago i said that there would never be a positive das with the systems that were in place, and these included the das methodology. today i can say that if this report is adopted, then i am confident that a positive das, that holy grail i mentioned before, is certainly within reach. (applause)
mr president, parliament grows in authority, but allows its reputation and that of its members to be dragged through the mire by its failure to ensure that arrangements are put in place for the payment of expenses and allowances that are of a kind that would be expected in any private business. i recognise that some of the problems in securing reform come from the unjust arrangements for the payment of members’ salaries, but that cannot excuse the fact that at this time there are no arrangements in place for the auditing of members’ general expenditure allowances. as things stand, it is possible for those who belong to the voluntary pension funds to allow their private contributions to be met out of public funds, without making reimbursement. such a practice, if it occurs, would be wholly indefensible. it would amount to embezzlement of public funds. all of us are tarnished by the suggestion – and perhaps the reality – of such practices. we should today take the opportunity to vote for reform and transparency. we should take the initiative and ensure that this house sets high standards for the whole of europe. we should not wait for changes to be forced upon us by the pressure of public scandal.
mr president, this parliamentary committee on budgetary control has attempted not only to brush under the carpet serious allegations of financial discrepancies at the committee of the regions, but also to wash its hands, like pontius pilate, over yet another whistleblower left to face appalling and unjust treatment for being brave enough to tell the truth. it beggars belief that mr stubb could have drawn up any report, let alone one of such a sensitive nature, without making sure he interviewed all the key players. yet it seems he could not, or would not, see the committee of the regions’ former internal auditor. on the back of this shocking disregard, it is little surprise that mr stubb’s report contains so many howlers. the original draft claimed that the then internal auditor had not been subject to an internal inquiry, when the committee of the regions’ secretary-general had admitted in writing that he had been. mr stubb claims that: ‘... none of the officials who were the subject of the administrative inquiry has been promoted since the completion of the report’. however, he omits to mention that several of them were allegedly put forward for promotion. most nauseatingly, the report states that the former internal auditor was assured that he had ‘the full support and cooperation of both cor members and staff’. that man has since been locked out of his office and hounded out of his job for telling the truth. mr stubb’s report is rotten to the core, just like the eu institutions it represents.
mr president, the committee on budgetary control on which i sit does not budget in any meaningful sense and shows very little control. i would just like to remind this house of some of the fundamentals. the european union’s income comes in an endless stream: percentages of vat, customs duty and gdp from the member states. there is no means of stopping this flood of cash and no means of returning it either. if this were an elected government as opposed to a bureaucracy, the very use of this vast sum of money, let alone its distribution, would be far more critically analysed, and accountable democracy demands that surpluses be refunded by the reduction in taxation. according to the court of auditors, the eu has lost some eur 600 billion over the time since the uk joined, which is more than four times the total net contribution my country has made to this place. nothing will adequately deal with these problems until and unless the member states themselves independently set up a genuinely separate, full auditing procedure over the management of all eu funds. the member states are the paymasters.
mr president, i also wish to congratulate our rapporteurs, in particular mr wynn, on their reports on the budgetary discharges. i remember that the first one mr wynn produced in 1994, and my own in 1996, produced a different type of debate on discharges than the one we are having today. undoubtedly, as mr wynn has indicated to us, should the recommendations of his report be accepted and implemented then we would see a significant step towards getting the statement of assurance – das – which most of us in this house want. this would give greater credibility to management of funds by european institutions. this means greater responsibilities will have to be taken by all concerned, including responsibilities for the chief accounting officer to sign off the accounts. the commissioner has shown that he wants to go that way, but i strongly urge that amendment 4 be adopted. we need commissioners to take individual responsibility for ensuring directorates-general effectively manage the funds under their responsibilities. we also need to ensure that whistleblowers are properly protected should they wish to come forward with information about the operation of community policies. above all, we need implementation with regard to the issue of shared management that marta andreasen mentioned. shared management is no management unless there is a proper internal control framework to ensure that monies are properly accounted for in member states. that is why we as conservatives strongly support the move towards the greater involvement of member states in the way in which things should be done. in conclusion, we welcome very strongly the idea of having proposals by july, with a view to having an interinstitutional agreement by the end of this year. however, they are still just intentions and, therefore, conservatives will be voting against discharge because, for the tenth year running, we note that there is no positive statement of assurance available.
mr president, i was responsible for the committee on regional development’s opinion on this discharge. the court of auditors gave a relatively clean bill of health to the internal organisation administration of the structural funds, but that was not the case in relation to the member states. one of the fundamental problems we have with the whole system is that of shared responsibility. when the member states fail, the commission gets the blame. until we sort out that issue we will not get very far. therefore i suggested that we should not agree to sign the interinstitutional agreement until the member states agree to sign annual statements of assurance. i am sorry that some of the other parties did not agree to pre-empt that situation in this report. i hope they will show more backbone when it comes to the interinstitutional agreement. it is also important that we have more preventive measures in order to stop fraud and mismanagement. it is essential that the commission use the court of auditors a bit more in terms of giving opinion on the development of policy. will the commissioner give a commitment to ensure that, in future, there is a systematic policy of asking the court of auditors for its advice during the development of policy? there is a real opportunity now, in particular with the new seven-year programmes coming up.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you all for these contributions and for the very constructive and good mood in which you are discussing what could be termed not so attractive issues. these issues become more unattractive when something is going wrong, and so if we can approach this work in a positive way then we will have a quiet and calm attitude. i would like to say that we have a unique momentum. we have had good discussions with the council. the council has expressed its readiness to discuss these issues of shared responsibility, although it is too early to set out the details. we also had good discussions with the court of auditors. it too is ready to discuss all the methodology questions and the question of the reliability of ‘audit evidence’. the point is that if we propose some ideas by the summer, that does not mean that we will necessarily get a positive statement of assurance – das – this year, but at least we will manage do so within a short period of time. so the momentum is unique and i hope that we can propose adequate details and solutions to meet these expectations. i fully agree with what mr elles said. this is a very good approach today, a good attitude, but the details must also be expanded upon in an adequate manner. we must also find responses to certain demands for simplification, because, being extremely concerned about serious financial control and about surveillance mechanisms, we have introduced enormous amounts of rules, documents and applications. as one honourable member said, these enormous amounts of rules still do not mean we can fulfil the requirements of all documents in an absolutely legal and correct way. we still waste money and this serious control is still not there. we must fulfil programmes. we must implement decisions and we must not have long delays due to the enormous amount of documents and to the need to follow bureaucratic rules. so in parallel with the clear need – especially with regard to the discharge issue – to strengthen and clarify the control and surveillance systems, we must also seriously address the question of dynamism in decision-making, so as not to have a system in which control is impossible. i hope that we will meet soon to discuss possible proposals on how to achieve a more reliable and more transparent control and discharge system for the community budget.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by glenys kinnock, on behalf of the committee on development, on the role of the european union in the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) [2004/2252(ini)] (a6-0075/2005).
rapporteur.– mr president, the millennium declaration adopted by world leaders in 2000 represents an unprecedented declaration of solidarity. it is evidence that there is real determination to achieve the millennium development goal targets, which would lift 500 million people out of extreme poverty, would save 30 million children who would otherwise die before their fifth birthday, and would save more than 2 million mothers who would otherwise not have survived pregnancy and childbirth. hundreds of millions of women and girls would be educated, and millions would have access to clean water and sanitation. the world has the technologies, the policies and the financial resources to deliver the promise and vision of the mdgs. on aid, mdg8 highlights the need for substantial increases in oda. only four member states have already reached the 0.7% target. others have set timetables. austria, germany, greece, italy and portugal, meanwhile, are all far off target. at the current rate, germany will not reach its target until 2087. italy, one of the world’s wealthiest countries and a g-8 member, gives only a miserly 0.17% of its gni in aid. there has to be close monitoring of annual intermediate targets by eu finance ministers and foreign ministers. i should like to ask the commissioner to respond to that part of our resolution. the financial perspective suggests that further squeezing of development spending by other categories, as well as within the external relations category, threatens the likelihood of us contributing as we should to meeting the mdg targets. the commission must continue to work to improve the quality and effectiveness of our aid using the mdgs as the tool to guide our policies. member states should collaborate and coordinate in a coherent way more than they do currently with the commission, in order to tackle how aid can be best used to serve and fulfil the mdgs. on unsustainable debt, most eu member states are committed to cancelling the bilateral debts of the world’s poorest countries. again, i am afraid that italy must be singled out and named and shamed as a country continuing to make progress at a snail’s pace on this issue. on trade, i totally agree and concur with the opinion presented by the committee on international trade, which covers a number of our concerns as far as the european union’s role as the world’s biggest trading bloc is concerned: our role in dealing with access to markets, building capacity and other aspects of trade and trade liberalisation. the european union negotiates in a way that sometimes calls into question whether there is a clear enough understanding of the pro-development objectives that are referred to on so many occasions. this is true of both the wto negotiations and the epa negotiations where i can confirm that, as far as acp countries are concerned, there is the sense of a need to feel that closer consultation has occurred and that there is greater understanding by dg trade of the development aspects to which they give such high priority. on the common agricultural policy, member states must urgently tackle the practices that depress world prices, distort poor-country markets and undermine earning opportunities for their farmers. i believe that the amendments on trade and agriculture policies, which we will vote on later, are in all cases inappropriate and, in a number of cases, propose totally unrealistic options. furthermore, parliament should reject amendments 10 to 16, which reflect unacceptable conservative views on essential aspects of mdg targets. the supply of condoms for the treatment of sexually-transmitted diseases and access to safe and legal abortion must remain as clear priorities if the over-arching goal of poverty eradication is to be achieved. five hundred and thirty thousand women died in pregnancy or childbirth last year. there were more than 3 million stillborn births. four million infants did not survive their first year of life. we should support the real need to facilitate access to responsive post-abortion procedures. there is also a need to facilitate access to high-quality and safe services to the fullest extent provided and allowed for by the laws in the countries concerned. as the who reported only yesterday, 78 000 deaths occur as a result of unsafe abortions. millions of women in desperate need resort to unsafe induced abortion. i would contradict those people who believe that any woman takes the decision to terminate a pregnancy lightly, and say very firmly that it is not and never would be the case. she has the right to choose good-quality responsive abortion and post-abortion care under the law. a woman has the right to choose. (applause)
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs kinnock on an excellent report. i am very happy to introduce the opinion of the committee on international trade, which was passed unanimously and adopted en bloc by the committee on development. that demonstrates the growing consensus that while trade clearly has a role in poverty eradication, the current trends and institutions of trade policy will need urgent reform if they are genuinely to lead to poverty eradication and sustainable development. our opinion notes the recent report by unctad and others that demonstrates that unfettered and extensive trade liberalisation does not necessarily translate into significant poverty eradication, particularly in sub-saharan africa. i quote from the unctad 2004 report on least-developed countries, which says: ‘the emerging post-liberal trends do not indicate that substantial and sustained poverty reduction will occur. on balance, future poverty reduction seems to have worsened’. so our first point in this opinion is to ask the commission and council to note that analysis and to modify trade policy accordingly. the first place they could apply that reformed trade policy is on the eu proposals for economic partnership agreements, because again increasing evidence suggests that if economic partnership agreements are to become genuine instruments of development, they have to offer non-reciprocal market access for as long as developing countries require it. i welcome recent statements from my own government in the uk that appear to guarantee poorest countries as much time as they need before acquiring that reciprocity. i urge the council to adopt that position but warn that it will not be credible unless article 24 of the gatt is revised accordingly as well. finally we call on the council and commission to address the almost forgotten issue of commodity prices, which is strangely absent from the wto agenda. according to oxfam, developing countries would have earned usd 243 billion more in 2002 if the real prices of ten key commodities had remained at their 1980 levels. that is almost five times the world’s annual aid budget. we desperately need urgent action on this issue if we are to have any chance of meeting the mdg goals.
in writing. i welcome the designation of europol as the central office for combating euro counterfeiting, which is surely a problem we can only effectively tackle collectively rather than an individual member states. in order to maintain the current downward trend in counterfeiting statistics, such as the respective 5% and 38% decline in false 50 and 100 euro notes, we must continue to take further steps towards an appropriate collective legal framework, within which euro counterfeiting can be clearly criminalised and information centralised to make anti-fraud action more effective.
in writing. i welcome this move to establish a european police college as a body of the european union. i am particularly pleased that the uk has been the member state has had the honour of being selected to host the european police college
, in writing. i welcome this report as a step closer towards the goals of the lisbon strategy. the kok report identifies "increasing europe's attractiveness for researchers and scientists” and “making r&d a top priority” among the policy areas requiring urgent action. these commission proposals further the establishment of a european research area, aimed at breaking down the barriers between national research systems and enhancing the mobility of researchers, thus promoting the transfer of expertise and the formation of scientists' networks. it is essential for non-eu researchers to be taken in if we wish to meet the barcelona target of investing 3% of the member states’ gdp in research and technological development. in order to do so the eu will need to recruit 700 000 researchers by 2010 and it will not be able to produce this number of researchers itself. it is therefore essential to remove the barriers preventing scientists from coming to the eu. however, i appreciate that a balance must be struck between the need to give the european research area a boost and immigration and security concerns. therefore i agree with the idea of classifying researchers within the category of highly-qualified migrants... (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
mr president, this is the tenth year that the european court of auditors has not given a positive statement of assurance – das – on the commission’s accounts. we have recently seen whistleblowers hounded out of their jobs, and the charter that mr kinnock set out for whistleblowers is simply not working. we have no decent benchmarks from the court of auditors, so parliament’s committee on budgetary control cannot judge whether things are improving within the commission’s accounts. and the buck does not seem to stop with the commission, even though the treaties say that it does: the commission is always pointing the finger at the member states saying that is where the money goes missing and it is not its problem. finally, the european parliament is blinkered. it does not want to cause any trouble for the commission, whilst all the time people in my constituency – in leicester, in lincoln, in louth, in rushcliffe in nottingham – write to me asking what we are doing to sort out the commission’s accounting problems. parliament has chosen to do nothing. that is why i voted against the discharges.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have voted against the parliament’s reports on the budgetary discharge because, for the tenth year running, the court of auditors has been unable to give a positive statement of assurance for the eu accounts. conservatives believe that this must be tackled as a matter of urgency by the commission, with zero tolerance of all cases of mismanagement and fraud, focusing on three main areas: 1. the accounting systems must be improved. the new system must be monitored closely to ensure that it is delivering the world class standard of accounts that we are promised. 2. whistleblowers must actually be positively encouraged to come forward. to achieve this all whistleblowers must be treated fairly and must be seen to be treated fairly. 3. the area that concerned the auditors most is the 80% of the budget that is spent in member states. the commission is responsible for the expenditure of all eu funds but in reality the power is delegated to paying agencies in member states. the objective must be the introduction of the principle of making member states responsible for this expenditure.
mr president, i very much regret that parliament has voted for discharge in spite of the fact that there is an outstanding claim against one of its former members for falsely claiming allowances. i am not going to comment in this speech on whether the former british conservative mep, mr bashir khanbhai, was responsible for falsely claiming expenses. however, i note that, as long ago as july 2004, the quaestors concluded that he had done so, and here we are, nearly ten months later in april 2005, and no money has been repaid. the protracted length of this matter is bringing this parliament into disrepute. i hope that next year, when we come to the discharge of parliament’s budget, this matter will be long concluded.
in writing. i and my conservative mep colleagues have long supported attempts to ensure that the european parliament has only one official seat, and that it should be in brussels. the cost to the taxpayer of the strasbourg seat is estimated at around gbp 150 million per annum. this is a gross waste of public funds. british taxpayers deserve to have value for money. the costs of having to support parliamentary operations in both strasbourg and brussels have now become indefensible, and we will continue to campaign to have parliament sit only in brussels in future.
in writing. i have voted in favour of amendment 11, which refers to travel at cost. it is essential that we have transparency in terms of meps' expenses. i would also like to declare an interest, as i am a member of the mep pension fund. nevertheless, i feel it is wholly indefensible to expect european taxpayers to subsidise any shortfall in the pension fund, which is why i have voted for amendments 5 and 12.
rapporteur.– mr president, in the past five years under various governments we have seen an intensification of political, economic and social reform in bulgaria during its negotiations for european union membership. i have had the honour and pleasure of acting as parliament’s rapporteur for bulgaria throughout this period. bulgaria is now on the brink of accession. the most important role now to be performed by parliament is to give its assent to bulgaria’s application to become a member state of the european union. i trust that tomorrow parliament will warmly endorse the recommendation for accession. the process of modernisation does not stop with the signature of the accession treaty, which we hope will take place on 25 april. i note that the accession treaty for bulgaria, and, indeed, romania, differs from the treaties with the previous group of accession countries in two important respects. firstly, there are the ‘safeguard clauses’, which would allow accession to be delayed by up to a year in certain circumstances. to my mind it is unfortunate that bulgaria has been caught in the wake of concerns that are more acute in relation to another country. i have always insisted that bulgaria should be judged on its own merits, in which case the invocation of safeguard clauses should be seen as a remote possibility. nevertheless, they are a reminder that much still remains to be done in terms of modernisation and the practical implementation of legislation. it is only right that parliament be fully involved in any consideration of application of the safeguard clauses. the commission, therefore, must take full account of parliament’s views and i understand that commissioner rehn will give us further reassurance on this point. the second difference is that ratification of the european constitution becomes concurrent with ratification of the accession treaty. on a personal note, i should point out that my reservations about this are mollified by my expectation that the constitution will fail, and so blushes will be spared. i have just returned from sofia. there is a pre-election mood in the country. all the political parties are in favour of eu accession and well understand that there is much work still to be done. the next government will have to mobilise resources and demonstrate real political determination to bring about the necessary reforms, in particular of the judiciary and the police services. there must be public confidence in the effectiveness and impartiality of the fight against corruption, organised crime and trafficking. the pre-trial phase and the role of the public prosecutor are two particular concerns that must be further addressed. there are many other issues. the integration of the roma community remains a priority. this is a matter of resources and political will on the part of government and motivation on the part of the roma community to adapt to the norms of mainstream society. i am not convinced by an amendment to my report calling for some new regulatory body with all its inevitable bureaucracy. on the subject of kozloduy, the bulgarian authorities, assisted by the international community, have introduced exceptional safety measures and responded positively to the requirement for closure of certain units. a little flexibility should now be shown in return, bearing in mind the important contribution bulgaria makes to regional energy needs. i am encouraged by the decision of the bulgarian government to relaunch the construction of the second nuclear power plant at belene. on 30 march members of the committee on foreign affairs voted overwhelmingly for the text of my report as it now stands and i, therefore, do not recommend further amendment.finally, on a separate but nevertheless important matter, i welcome the invitation by libya for a visit by the president of bulgaria. i hope this will lead to the early release of the bulgarian and palestinian health workers arrested in 1999 and now under sentence of death. at the same time, we strongly support the practical assistance being given by the european union to help relieve the suffering of children affected by hiv. this is an exciting time for bulgaria. we are on the eve of the assent vote for bulgaria’s accession and i strongly urge the house to vote in favour.
mr president, in helsinki in 1999 the council, the commission and parliament tasked romania with three key topics she had to address. i can report most favourably on one topic today: the progress on children’s rights. since that date, the commission has dedicated eur 60 million to the implementation of children’s rights. the commission, with the romanian government, has created family-style care for children in need through the implementation of day-care centres, family-type homes, mother and baby units and centres for special needs children. year on year, the commission has run a major public awareness campaign with the government and has set in hand and implemented large training programmes for professionals on the implementation of the european convention on human rights and the united nations convention on the rights of the child and on the exceptionally powerful new romanian legislation. as a result, the number of children in residential care has dropped from 85 000 to 35 000. conditions in institutions have changed dramatically and 15 000 children are now in foster care. some 30 000 children have been reintegrated into their own families. only last year, 1 800 children were adopted domestically and two or three years ago 25 000 special needs children were restored to normal schooling for the very first time. the commission has worked powerfully on new legislation for 6.5 million children in romania. that new law is well in advance of other laws in the region and indeed of some nations in the european union. it is a very modern law. it supports the family; it is against violence towards children and it forbids the institutionalisation of children between nought and two years old. in european union member states, there are many thousands of children in institutions, including between the ages of nought and two years old. as regards contact between parents and children, the new law is particularly strong and very modern. the commission set up a special group from member states, led by a belgian judge, to assist in the formation of this new legislation. in conclusion, romania now has more advanced law and greater reform on children’s rights than many of the member states, as some member states announced in a meeting on friday 8 april in greece. i congratulate romania. this is just one success and there are many others. romania has well earned her place in the european union and i shall be delighted to vote for her accession.
mr president, i too took part in the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee visit to bucharest last week and i am very grateful to the president of parliament, and indeed to our vice-president mr podestà, for making it possible, in extraordinary circumstances, to hold the vote this week. the main point i would like to report back to parliament was how impressively open members of the romanian government – from the president to the prime minister to the ministers – were in recognising the difficulties that they have inherited. there was no attempt to cover them up. yet in a very short space of time they have produced detailed programmes to deal with these difficulties, which they have also costed. so this was not just a wish list, it was a very practical approach to the difficulties. we all know the issues involved: the fight against corruption, independence of the judiciary, the protection of the environment. it is very clear that the european union will have to support romania in terms of inward investment and cooperation in order to restore civil society. a look back at the history books and the pictures of bucharest at the beginning of the last century show how prosperous and cultivated romania was at that point in the society of european countries. it is my belief that romania will rejoin europe and deserves to do so. there are concerns, particularly about the hungarian minority in transylvania, which was not treated well in the past; but i believe we received important reassurances on that count. therefore i will be voting in favour. it is most important to give the right message not only to the romanian authorities but also to the romanian population. this is not the end of the story, of course; after accession we need to continue to work. but i would like to thank our romanian hosts who welcomed us to bucharest and also point out that the eu embassies – in other words representatives of the member states – are working hand-in-hand with the commission to make sure that this very difficult task is accomplished.
member of the commission. current community law guarantees that union citizens residing in a member state of which they are not nationals have the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament and in municipal elections, under the same conditions as nationals of that state. the definition of the conditions of the right to vote in national elections and referenda belongs to the competence of the member states. it is therefore up to each member state to lay down the appropriate rules on the right to vote. the commission has received complaints from union citizens – not only the honourable member – who, as a result of exercising their right to free residence in a member state other than their home member state, have no right to participate in national or regional elections or referenda, either in their member state of residence or in their home member state. this issue has also been mentioned in the recently adopted fourth report from the commission on the citizenship of the union. the commission, on the basis of the fourth report, awaits reactions from the european parliament, the council and the member states and will consider this important and sensitive issue further. however, as participation in elections or referenda at national level is entirely governed by national legislation, in the absence of community competence, changes in the legal or constitutional orders of the member states would be necessary to address this issue. with regard to national elections before 1 may 2004, this question concerned around 5 million union citizens of voting age who resided in another member state. however, the commission does not have up-to-date comprehensive information on how many union citizens are affected as regards national referenda on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe.
commissioner, i understand and respect entirely that it is up to member states and i do not suggest for one minute that should change. however, it could be that some member states have found better answers to this problem than others. i do not know . i wonder whether you could comment on that. whilst i am happy that the commission is considering the reaction having waited for feedback, you have really been describing the problem rather than presenting some solution. that is not a criticism but a statement. i accept it is a complicated issue, but would not you in turn accept that it has to be wrong for so many people to be disenfranchised?
member of the commission. of course, trying to explain the situation is always the starting point to establish whether there is a solution. that is my first point. it would be up to member states to ensure proper coordination, either by a set of unilateral amendments to national legislation governing referenda, by a series of bilateral agreements or by a multilateral agreement, which answers your question in part. could something be done? yes, cooperation should be enhanced. today, there is not enough time to resolve the problem regarding the referendum on the constitutional treaty. at the moment, only eight member states have opted for a referendum on the constitutional treaty, as you know, and any solution would have to deal with the question of whether the right to vote in a referendum should be restricted to citizens from those member states holding a referendum. so that question would also have to be answered, which would complicate the whole issue further.
commissioner, would you agree that if citizens cannot exercise their civic right to vote, this is a serious impediment to free movement? notwithstanding the fact that you are awaiting replies from parliament and the member states to your consultation document, would you accept that the aim of any reform has to be to ensure that all citizens, no matter where in the european union they reside, have the right to vote in the national elections in at least one member state?
member of the commission. the commission is examining the ticket sale arrangements for the 2006 world cup under eu competition rules following a recent complaint filed by the uk consumer organisation ‘which?’ against fifa, the german football federation and mastercard, but i am sure this information has also arrived on the honourable member’s desk. during the first four sales periods, consumers who do not have a german bank account can pay for tickets by using mastercard products or by making an international bank transfer. the issue of mastercard exclusivity and bank transfer fees for making international bank transfers raised by the honourable member are also part of the complaint that the commission is currently examining with the required urgency. first all the relevant facts need to be established and examined under the relevant eu competition provisions before the commission can take a position. if, at the end of the examination, the commission were to conclude that there was an infringement, the commission could take appropriate action, for instance ordering the arrangements to be stopped, and fine the company or companies that have breached eu competition law. as regards regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 on cross-border payments in euro, it establishes that cross-border transfers in euro up to the amount of eur 12 500 until 31 december 2005 shall be at the same price as national transfers in euro. for countries outside the eurozone, this price can be very high: a transfer in euro in the uk currently costs more than eur 20. the commission regrets that on 14 march 2005 fifa issued a press release which gave an incorrect interpretation of this regulation.
thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. i would be grateful to learn exactly what action you plan to take and how quickly, because clearly time is not on our side. you may recall that we had similar problems with the sales of tickets by the french football authorities during the world cup held in france. a number of mep colleagues, including me, took them to the european court of justice; the eventual result of which was that the commission intervened and they were fined eur 500 on the basis that they had contravened european union regulations. i wonder if you can assure us that, allowing for the fact that the german football authorities were aware of what had happened to their french counterparts, any fine in this case will be several orders of magnitude higher? you may even reach the stage of asking them to redo the whole thing. it is plainly ludicrous for one organisation to be able to pre-empt who can buy tickets and at what price.
member of the commission. the commission adopted the second report on the implementation of the nitrates directive in 2002. it indicated that at that stage significant progress had been made by member states in this area. in recent years that progress has been maintained. all member states have by now established water monitoring networks. all have either designated nitrate-vulnerable zones and established action programmes for those zones, or made use of the possibility given by the directive to establish an action programme for the whole territory. ireland is among a group of member states that took this option. nitrate-vulnerable zones, including whole territories, accounted for about 38% of the total european union of 15 in 2000. since then the percentage has increased because of the designation of new vulnerable zones in sweden, the united kingdom, belgium, greece, spain and italy and because of the territorial approach chosen by ireland. member states are also upgrading and further developing their action programmes as they realise that, in order to improve water quality, strong and fully applicable action programmes are necessary. similar progress has been taking place in the new member states. they have fulfilled the commitment set out in the accession treaty and by the date of accession had designated nitrate-vulnerable zones, established action programmes and adopted codes of good agricultural practice. the commission is currently examining the quality of these designations and action programmes. despite that progress, it may take years before we see a considerable improvement in water quality. there is a time lag between action and results. however, the trend seems positive as encouraging signs are already emerging in some countries. the commission is fully committed to ensuring that the nitrates directive is correctly implemented in member states by using all the tools at its disposal. that clearly includes the launch of infringement proceedings against member states that do not correctly implement the different steps required by the directive. an infringement procedure is currently open against ireland. following the ruling of the european court of justice of 11 march 2003, the irish authorities officially submitted to the commission the action programme established according to article 5 of the directive. the commission considers the irish action programme not fully compliant with the directive on several issues, which were indicated in detail in the letter of formal notice sent to ireland at the end of 2004. a reply is still awaited.
member of the commission. you should know that the commission considers the issue of nitrates to be very important for certain countries. about 20% of europe’s groundwater has an excessive nitrate concentration and the same problem affects at least 30-40% of rivers and lakes. in many countries we have an influx of nitrogen to coastal waters which, in certain areas, could be very important for the coastal waters and seas. agriculture is responsible for about 50-80% of the nitrogen input to water in the european union. ireland was in compliance with neither the submission of the action plan, nor the designation of the vulnerable areas, and it did not specify which waters were polluted. it complied with the designation of the whole of the territory as a vulnerable area, but the action plan it sent is not satisfactory and as a result we have taken ireland to court. ireland sent an answer on 22 december and we replied, also on 22 december, giving the irish authorities three months to respond. ireland asked for a one-month extension, and the deadline ends on 22 april. we are therefore waiting to see its answers to particular issues we raised. concerning farmers, there is a big problem and there are questions of whether a derogation would be requested for certain areas. in order to have a derogation there has to be an action plan that is acceptable to the commission.
northern ireland’s farmers are also having great difficulty in meeting the requirements of this directive. i have two questions. although it is a small region, is there any reason why it should not have different closed periods according to the soil and climatic conditions in different areas, just as the republic of ireland’s proposal puts forward three different closed periods for three different zones? secondly, the northern ireland office says that it has sought the commission’s approval for 60% grant aid on capital works necessary on farms. can you indicate whether and when we can expect approval of that application?
member of the commission. the accession negotiations on chapter 24 were closed on the basis of a considerable number of commitments being undertaken by the bulgarian government. the continued reform of the judicial system stands out as the overarching priority for bulgaria in its preparations for accession. clear steps for the reform of the judiciary have been agreed in the accession negotiations. the commitments undertaken must be fully respected. important challenges lie ahead, notably as regards the adoption of the new penal procedure code, making the entire pre-trial investigation phase simpler and corresponding to eu best practices. this requires a clear consensus of all parties involved, including the political parties. finally, the overall working conditions, the need for enhancing specialisation of judges and prosecutors, the appointment procedures, access to legal aid in practice, and other commitments from the accession negotiations will need to be addressed. apart from political will, sufficient budgetary resources are also needed to meet these criteria. in this context, the bulgarian authorities should now make every effort to ensure the completion of the reform, especially with regard to the pre-trial phase. this is indispensable to ensure that bulgaria has the legal means and resources to fully apply the rule of law and requirements of membership. it seems as though the preparation for this reform is taking more time than was initially expected. the bulgarian authorities have nevertheless reiterated their commitment to a new draft penal procedures code to be adopted by the council of ministers on 15 may. i am reasonably confident that this commitment will be respected, as this is indispensable for bulgaria to meet its commitments from the negotiations. the commission will keep a close watch on this area through intensified monitoring, to get sufficient assurances that progress continues after the closure of negotiations and that the country will be effectively ready for membership in 2007.
thank you very much, commissioner, for that very clear and useful answer. you have put your finger on all the problems. it is clear that the present government recognises the need for judicial reform. but the question still remains: is the political will for delivering that reform more widely shared within bulgaria? i am pleased to hear that the commission is going to keep an eye on this. on a related matter, you mentioned the issue of funding. will the commission give support for the retraining of the judiciary to help bulgaria prepare for membership in 2007?
member of the commission. madam president, i cannot say that i am happy to be here discussing this issue with you because it is not a pleasant one, but at the same time i think it is useful that we have the opportunity to exchange views and present to you what we in the commission are planning for the future and what actions we are taking. it is true that the influenza pandemic is a threat and, as the scientists advise, it is no longer a question of ‘if’ but ‘when’. it is overdue, it is something that happens every so many years, it should have happened already. how we deal with this is therefore a top priority, both at community level, coordinating the member states, but also working together with who, not only in europe, but also worldwide, and with some of our partners such as the united states, which shares our concerns. we have undertaken work in many fields. some of it concerns, for example, measures directed at the source of human infection. we are discussing the plans of the member states and how we can coordinate them at eu level. we are looking at vaccines and antiviral drugs and at surveillance and diagnostics in inter-connected laboratories to identify a pandemic strain. we need, of course, to identify the potential sources of this problem. as you know, one of these potential sources is avian flu, which is a real problem. it already exists in asia and many people have already died from it. but the main concern is that this disease has become endemic. it is not an epidemic that will simply go away; it is there, it is rooted and its eradication cannot be considered a short-term objective. we have also taken measures to try to deal with this problem. the commission has adopted a new directive on measures for the control of avian influenza to ensure that the member states can apply the most appropriate surveillance and control measures. in this way we hope we can reduce the risk when major outbreaks occur in the community in the future. we have a plan at community level, but we also need to have national plans at member state level. in march, together with the world health organization, we organised a workshop where we could discuss and exchange views on these plans. it was a useful exercise. we helped member states to update and improve their national preparedness plans. at the same time we identified those member states that do not yet have plans and we will help them develop such plans. this is very important because we have a plan at community level but the actual implementation of plans is up to the member states. we are happy to say that the response by the member states showed that the public health services are taking this problem very seriously. we are considering how best to implement the community plan. its aspects include communication, isolation and vaccination, the use of drugs, restrictions on public gatherings, and information to the public. we are planning a europe-wide exercise, a kind of military-style exercise, that will put these plans to the test and, we hope, see how they work on a fake scenario. we intend to conduct this exercise before the next influenza season in order to test the plans and see what is lacking, what the problems are, so that we can correct the plans and coordinate them better. a very important problem, as i am sure you are aware, is the issue of vaccines. with vaccines we have three problems. the first is the issue of actually identifying the strain, because in the case of a pandemic we expect a new strain. then there is the issue of developing the vaccine and, just as important, of having the capacity to produce enough vaccines to cover the population in the event of a pandemic. because the strain will be a new one, stockpiling vaccines is no solution and does not help. we have met with representatives of the member states and we have agreed a way of engaging the industry in a kind of public-private partnership to facilitate the rapid production of pandemic vaccines in time of need. i am optimistic that we will reach an agreement with the industry. the basic principle is that the member states will increase their level of purchase of vaccines at this stage, so as to justify enough investment to increase the capacity of the member states in the event of a pandemic. at the same time the member states have pledged to redouble their efforts to stick to their vaccine recommendations, so as to achieve high uptake rates among the relevant population groups, i.e. the high-risk groups. we, for our part, are ready to work on the drawing-up of proposals for eu recommendations that can be issued by the council on who is to be vaccinated on public health grounds. another possible way to increase capacity – and the industry has promised to look into this – is by converting other facilities, such as those used for veterinary medicine production, for the rapid production of vaccines in a pandemic situation. we, the member states, the vaccine industry and the european medicines agency will work together to create a favourable situation for such production, but also for a more rapid licensing procedure. of course all these moves may not completely resolve the problem of supply of vaccines for the member states, but they certainly make huge strides in the right direction. a similar process has been started with the manufacturers of antivirals. it will bring the member states and the industry together to seek a common position. i will report back to you on this as soon as we have the outline of a solution to the problem of shortages of production and stockpiling. but we encourage member states to proceed with stockpiling and many of them, mostly the larger member states, are already doing so. we feel that it is a process that all member states have to engage in, because despite all the drawbacks and all the problems that may exist in regard to the effectiveness of the antivirals, it will be the first line of defence. it will be our first means of dealing with the virus, with the disease, in the event of a pandemic. we will need to have this breathing space until we manage to develop the new vaccine and increase the capacity to actually produce it, disseminate it and use it. since antivirals will be the first line of defence, they are worth the investment, worth the effort. let me draw your attention to a positive development, to the decisions we took last week at the commission, in relation to the financial perspectives. we also adopted the regulation on the solidarity fund, which will include a line relating to public health threats. the decisions fall within the context of the legislative instruments and will cover the next financial perspectives. they concern the general availability of funds for health preparedness and vaccines in case of major public health threats. the solidarity fund will have a ceiling, a volume of about eur 1 billion a year. we believe that it will have enough flexibility to cope with health emergencies, while it will also be able to help those member states that meet the requirements to fund the effort of acquiring and using the vaccines in case of pandemic. i hope very much, indeed i am certain, that the european parliament and the council will make every effort towards a speedy agreement of this proposal. finally, another very important issue is early detection. as i said, it takes time to identify a new strain of virus and develop vaccines to deal with it. the sooner we manage to detect it, the easier it will be to deal with the problem and even to contain it as far as possible. to this end we have set up a network of communication with the member states and with the world health organization. however, our main instrument in this effort is the early warning and response system. under this system member states will inform each other and the community in case of a problem. let me also mention the european centre for disease prevention and control, which is becoming operational now. of course, it will take another year or so until it can function at full capacity. when the time comes, that centre will take over and operate the early warning and response system and manage health threats of this kind. we are concerned about the influenza pandemic. we expect it to be unprecedented if it occurs and unless we take the necessary measures. even in an optimistic scenario, the figures given to us by scientists are very worrying, with deaths worldwide in the range of about 8 million at least. but the worst-case scenarios suggest deaths in the range of 30 million. therefore this is now one of our top priorities; it is a major concern, and we will continue working on it and making great endeavours to put all the mechanisms and structures in place. however, our success will depend heavily on strong political commitment and support on the part of the council, member states, the commission and of course the european parliament. i am confident that i can count on your support.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, as the commissioner has said, some countries have no plans and many countries have inadequate plans. it is therefore right that he has come here this evening to discuss this issue with us, and we welcome what he said and the plans he is making. we will certainly give him all the support we can. last year europe and the world were lucky. sars and avian flu did not develop into pandemics. in the last century we were not so lucky. in 1918, in 1957, and in 1968, with asian flu, spanish flu, and with hong kong flu, we were less lucky. a million died in each of the latter two and 50 million died in 1918, a quarter of a million in my country, the united kingdom. now dr omi of the world health organization has warned that another pandemic is imminent. for months we have been calling for urgent action in parliament to prepare for this, and yet, certainly amongst member states, we have not seen the sense of urgency that we have looked for. for some six months or more, the united states has been stockpiling antiviral drugs and it has placed orders for four million vaccines. italy and france have both ordered two million vaccines. canada, australia and japan have all been stockpiling. as dr omi rightly says, although we cannot know the strain, even the existing vaccines and drugs will mitigate and protect the vulnerable, particularly children and the elderly, and key workers. but what about the other countries? the united kingdom is not buying any vaccines. it has announced that is not its policy. it is only planning to protect 20% of our population with antivirals. and yet london, a global hub for travel, for migration, and for disease, has inadequate plans for protection through drugs and quarantine. my fears are twofold: that the pandemic will strike first from asia to africa or to low-income countries ill-equipped to respond; then move rapidly on into europe, and that panic in countries that are ill-prepared could lead to international crime and violence within the european union, including in cities such as london where 80% of people are expected to be unprotected. we have worked hard in parliament, along with the commission and council, and passed in a single reading my report establishing the european centre for disease prevention and control. we have approved an excellent choice of director in zsuzsanna jakab. we now need to be assured that the first great challenge to this collaborative centre will be met in terms of rapid alert as dr omi says, antiviral and vaccine planning and placement, port and airport precautions and quarantine facilities. we need to work closely with the who, with the authorities in china, vietnam and other affected countries in asia, with international ngos, with the pharmaceutical industry and with vulnerable countries in the acp and elsewhere. i shall be attending the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly next week. i want to take with me a message of help and support, but also assurance that europe has taken note, is acting and will help the world protect itself from this pandemic.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i am glad that the commissioner is here tonight and i am glad that this issue has now been given some sense of urgency. as you said, nobody is talking about ‘if’. it is only a question of ‘when’ there will be a pandemic. citizens will not expect the european union to micro-manage a pandemic, but they will expect it to add value. they know that diseases travel and they will expect the european union quickly to put into place measures concerning people travelling and the movement of animals. we would like to hear that those measures are in place so that such arrangements could be made quickly. i would be interested to hear feedback on your planning for a real exercise. it would be useful for us to know how it goes. on the issue of vaccines, i am pleased with what you said. we need a coordinated approach to vaccines. if we can get the pharmaceutical companies to work with member states and the commission we are more likely to get a quicker reaction if the pandemic breaks out. we need a prototype. i understand that we cannot stockpile the vaccine, but i understand that it is possible to develop prototype vaccines in advance, which can then be very quickly adapted for the strain when it emerges. mr bowis is right that we have a primary responsibility to our citizens to get these things right. what worries me is the impact that this will have on the poorest people on our planet. in 1918 one of the reasons why so many millions died was because so many lived in dire poverty, both in the area that is now the european union and across the rest of the world. commissioner, you did not mention anything about inter-service consultations with the development commissioner. is there anything that is being done in the commission to look at aid policies for the developing countries and to make sure that the eu sees some solidarity with those countries, as well as planning for what would happen within the european union?
member of the commission. madam president, the 2006 budget will be the last one under this framework financial perspective both for the commission and us all, and in a few weeks’ time in its preliminary draft budget, the commission will propose only those preparations that it considers necessary. i thank mr pittella for having formed a very balanced approach; it is a step in the direction of achieving the platform of priorities common to both the commission and parliament. the commission adopted the aps 2006 decision on 2 march. for the commission’s aps, this will frame both the pdb and the work programme for 2006 in line with the commission’s five-year strategic objective. in particular, the first aps priority is focused on improving the implementation of the lisbon strategy, as you also mentioned. now it is parliament’s turn to put forward its guidelines, and from mr pittella’s report i am pleased to see that the positions of parliament and the commission are close on many issues. the commission’s general approach to the preparation of the 2006 budget will be mainly concentrated on five priorities. firstly, to keep modulation for the commission’s proposals to reinforce the ceilings for agriculture. secondly, on payment appropriations, the commission will base its position on the most reliable estimates of needs, and will report on the implementation of the funds in 2005 by july. thirdly, on internal policies, parliament’s priorities are globally shared by the commission and will be reflected in its proposal, while leaving the margin under the ceiling well over eur 100 million, including the youth policies, as already mentioned today. fourthly, on external action, the needs are once again significant. that means that the commission will call for the use of the flexibility instrument. finally, as regards human resources, we hear that there is a new proposal and that the commission subscribes fully to the analysis made by the previous commission. this was presented in 2002 in a communication on the consequences of enlargement on human resources. parliament has also acknowledged the legitimacy of this request by inserting the principle of 3900 new posts for the eu-10 enlargement in the budgetary remarks of the 2005 budget. in our mind there is no need for a review just one year after accession, but we need to implement what we have jointly agreed with parliament. on this basis, for 2006, the commission confirms the request of 700 new posts for the current enlargement and, in addition, it will request 100 external staff for preparing the next enlargement to remain in bulgaria. the commission will cooperate closely with the rapporteur and the european parliament’s committee on budgets and with the other arms of the budget authority to agree in december on the 2006 budget for the european union and its citizens.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development.– madam president, last year and this year there have been a great deal of problems relating to poverty eradication, aids, malaria, tuberculosis, diarrhoeal diseases and the tsunami. the millennium project’s ‘quick wins’, which we have put into our budget opinion acknowledges that often the simplest ideas turn out to be the best. too often in politics we see the quest for headline-grabbing initiatives taking priority over what should be the actual aim. i welcome what this ‘quick wins’ budgetary proposal involved because the result of the investment into the quick wins programmes is visible after two years. that means giving out malaria bed nets, free primary education and fertiliser, and promoting basic hygiene. these are simple things that we can do quickly. water and sanitation are also critical for human welfare. one hygiene measure that i feel particularly strongly about is hand washing. this is not a glamorous subject. hand washing with soap is not an innovative idea, but diarrhoeal diseases kill 2 million children every year. hand washing with soap and water can reduce this by 47%. a million lives per year can be saved. as we strive towards the development goals, these are simple projects that i ask the commission to put into place, which will make a huge difference over the vast quantities of money that we have already spent under the edf and the community development budget. another under-utilised resource we need to concentrate on is the european investment bank. the eib has the capacity to lend money. it can lend three times as much as the world bank. the world knows about the world bank but knows nothing about the european investment bank. therefore i have put into the budget a grant element to support the interest on the eib’s lending. i commend our opinion to the house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade.– madam president, the committee on international trade shares the general concern expressed by the committee on budgets that the community, having made promises to third countries, ensures that there are adequate resources in the budget to meet these promises. mr pittella is to be congratulated on the external element of his report, but the trade committee has three specific points that are not, in our opinion, adequately covered in the report. firstly, the world trade talks are going to come to a conclusion in the next year or two and they will go through a crucial phase at the end of this year. we believe that to have credibility these talks need a parliamentary dimension and for a parliamentary dimension to be successful it needs to be funded, so we would like to see more money in the budget to cover the parliamentary dimension of the wto. secondly, the macro-financial assistance that goes to third countries, most particularly to bosnia and herzegovina, does not, in our opinion, have an adequate legal base and it is not properly monitored. we believe we need the codecision procedure implemented for this to bring transparency and accountability to this important area of expenditure. finally, for a long time we have had an executive trading programme for japan and korea which has enabled us to get access to these markets. we believe it is now time to extend these programmes to cover china and india.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish) madam president, enlargement constitutes a historic opportunity for the eu and, therefore, sufficient means must be provided to cope with the cost of an enlarged eu and for providing economic and social cohesion. the financial consequences of enlargement must be distributed in a balanced way, but some member states continue to experience significant disparities and may pay a disproportionate share of the costs. the motivation for and the intention of the structural funds and the eu’s regional policy was to assist regions and countries in overcoming disparities and in developing their social and economic potential. could the commissioner confirm if this motivation will continue to inform the eu’s regional policy in the future? does she regard the means to be sufficient to cope with it? there are 68 million people across the eu who continue to live in poverty, according to the european anti-poverty network. this remains a huge challenge for us.
madam president, i support the commission proposals on cohesion in its widest sense, namely statistical effect. i should like to ask mrs hübner if she could shed some light on rumours that discussions are taking place within the council to interpret the commission’s proposals on statistical effect to cover areas of germany and greece, but to exclude areas such as the highlands, islands and the south of scotland? it is a crying shame that the government of the united kingdom cannot be anywhere near as constructive as the commission proposals. the current uk government is more intent on stabbing the highlands, islands and the south of scotland in the back rather than fighting their corner. the scottish government has been notable only by its absence. the principles of solidarity and cohesion across all 25 member states of the european union state that no region should be discriminated against. i would ask the commission and the council to reassure me that, despite the best efforts of the united kingdom government, no scottish region will be discriminated against, and that the principles of statistical effect will apply as proposed by the commission.
member of the commission. madam president, with this recommendation amending the text of the common position we are close to finalising the legislative process on the eco-design proposal. i am pleased to confirm that the commission fully accepts the outcome of the compromise between parliament and the council. the commission will attach the necessary resources for implementing and achieving the goals of this directive. i would now like to invite you to support the compromise package which reflects the important changes that the rapporteur, together with the shadow rapporteurs from all political groups, have achieved during long, difficult but fruitful negotiations with the council. it is a job well done.
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mrs satu hassi, for her excellent work on the proposal for a directive on sulphur in marine fuels. the aim of the proposal is to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter. these emissions are directly linked to the sulphur content of marine fuels, which is currently 2.7% on average or 27 000 parts per million, while road transport fuels - as mrs hassi said earlier - have a new sulphur limit of 10 parts per million. the proposal therefore sets two limits for sulphur in marine fuels: a limit of 1.5% for all ships in the baltic sea, the north sea and the channel, as well as for passenger ships throughout the european union; the commission has also proposed that the maximum rate of duty be increased to 0.1% for vessels at berth in ports of the european union. these reductions will lead to targeted and low-cost emission reductions to address the acute situation in northern europe and improve local air quality in all european union ports and coastal areas. the benefits to human health must include 2000 man-years saved each year as a result of better air quality. as shipping is a global industry, it is important that the main points of the proposal are aligned with the internationally agreed rules included in the international maritime organisation convention on air pollution, marpol, annex 6. the progress made at second reading on this proposal is satisfactory and i thank parliament for the constructive role it has played in setting the right direction for agreement.
on behalf of the pse group.– madam president, i thank mrs hassi for the way in which she conducted the whole negotiation in a very open and inclusive way, so that we all knew what was happening at every moment. i should also like to thank the commission staff, who helped us a great deal in terms of the agreement that we have reached tonight. we have a compromise, but the question is whether it is good enough. yes, there are some very good things in the compromise, which i welcome – and mrs hassi has listed them – but the socialist group believes that we still need to go further. we would have liked to see sulphur control areas extended to all eu waters. we want to see this as one step towards the use of lower-sulphur fuel in our shipping areas. in other words, we want to see a second phase in the legislation. we take the review clause, which was the object of the compromise, very seriously indeed. we hope that the commission will go out and work in the imo to bring more areas under the scope of this legislation. it is legislation that will make a difference. two of the ports listed in the top 100 worst polluted ports in europe are in my constituency. last week, i was in one of those areas and was told about the black soot that lands on people’s washing lines and windows and affects people’s health. this is a piece of legislation that will help improve the environment and people’s health. it is a pity that we are here yet again at 11.45 p.m. discussing important pieces of environmental legislation when the media has gone to bed and nobody is watching us. i am sure you will agree that these are important pieces of legislation. we should ask the services to make sure that we have these debates at a time when we can show people that the eu really is working on their behalf to do things that are in their best interests.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, it often seems to fall to the smaller member states to rescue europe from the problems created by their larger partners. mr juncker, i fear you find yourself once more the victim of high expectations. the european union is now facing major challenges which will test not only its capacity to provide for the hopes and needs of its citizens, but its very capacity to hold together. the challenge which occupied the european council is that of re-energising our economic growth potential. our economy has stalled since the lisbon strategy was launched in 2000; it is almost as if a millennium bug of continental proportions has afflicted our competitiveness and depressed our determination to take tough decisions. the summit was billed as a relaunch of the ten-year lisbon agenda, yet it left liberals and democrats with the impression of europe’s leaders sleepwalking their way forward. the lofty language of the council conclusions is unsupported by the dignity of disciplined thought. the text was high on rhetoric but low on action. calls for undertakings to build new competitive factors, for consumers to benefit from new goods and services and for workers to acquire new skills were combined paradoxically with a demand for the commission to rewrite a key piece of internal market legislation enabling growth in the services sector. the draft services directive can be improved, but it will be done in a serious manner by parliament and the relevant sectoral council rather than by heads of state playing to the gallery and pandering to nationalist sentiment. the european council conclusions speak of financial perspectives to provide the union with adequate funds to carry through its policy commitments, especially the lisbon priorities, yet member states still call for a restrictive budget in one breath, while tying up foreign spending for seven years in the next breath. liberals and democrats in this house do not share mr barroso’s satisfaction with the spring summit. mr juncker, we offer your presidency two cheers on ‘mission impossible’: your legendary ability to craft compromise has saved the shreds of the stability and growth pact. yet its loose wording and its get-out clauses send shivers down the spines of orthodox economists and mr berlusconi’s use of his new-found flexibility to offer tax breaks ahead of a general election shows the contempt with which irresponsible leaders will treat their eurozone partners. what has happened to europe’s leadership? where is the sense of common purpose? is it any wonder that french or british citizens show little enthusiasm for a new treaty, when two of our longer serving leaders have abjectly failed to explain and justify the union to their compatriots? the vacuum in leadership at national and european levels threatens to derail not just the constitutional treaty, but the whole project. if the constitution is not ratified the blame will lie fairly and squarely on those leaders who sacrifice longer term european unity to short-term national popularity. president-in-office, i cannot escape the conclusion that your european people’s party is failing our union. you have failed to use your majority in the council to build a coherent economic strategy at home. you are unable to marshal your troops here to see through our commitment to bulgaria and romania, to say nothing of their attitude towards croatia that we have just heard. we are humiliated abroad when our union conveniently discards its scruples to secure favoured trading status from totalitarian regimes in russia or in china; when we turn a blind eye to such suffering in the sudan; when we are silent in the face of american overreaction, imprisoning our citizens without charge, and denying airspace to our airlines. under these conditions the european union does a disservice to its citizens. europe needs and deserves better. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, after all that mr juncker said a month ago in this house and elsewhere to the effect that the stability and growth pact was dead or at best needed to stagger on as it was, we now hear from the european council that it lives again. lazarus indeed strikes once more. but it is not living, it is fudging. in a year’s time this rotten pact will have to be fudged or dumped, as i suggested last time. the meeting, however, was remarkable for something which it did not discuss: the uk’s budget rebate. mr chirac at least commented on it after the meeting, saying to reporters that it could no longer be justified, that it was from the past. mr barroso echoed those statements. perhaps you would like to justify the fact that the uk would pay into the eu 14 times more than france without the rebate, and, even with it, two-and-a-half times the french contribution. mr barroso also said that 70% of commission spending was on agriculture when the rebate was agreed, whereas new proposals would reduce it to one-third. in fact, the proposals are that three-quarters of future spending will go to agriculture in poor regions. that is where the commission’s priorities lie. that is of no comfort to the uk, rebate or no. our foreign secretary said that the commission’s proposal could mean a 35% hike in the budget, but he said our rebate remains a veto. we have an election in the uk on 5 may. i would advise you not to try to join the flight from london to brussels the following day. you would be caught up with party officials and government ministers, of whatever colour, as they rush over here to seek a compromise. it will be a milestone on the way to britain’s exit. worse is better because, in monetary terms, the eu will then be 14 times as bad for the uk as for france. heaven knows, even with mr chirac’s desperate efforts, current polls show that the eu is becoming less popular in france every day.
mr president, yesterday an opinion poll was published in scotland that included a question about the draft eu constitution. scots in favour of signing up to the constitution: 35%; those against signing up to the eu constitution: 49%. five years ago, a much more positive response would have been delivered from scotland. indeed, historically, scotland has been much more positive about engagement with our european partners than certain other parts of the uk. but, in spite of all the talk since the fall of the santer commission about reconnecting with citizens, many of our policies and directives are still seen as insensitive and inappropriate to real life in our communities, not least in scotland with the disastrous failure of the common fisheries policy. but i think the services directive has the potential to further undermine public confidence and i do not think it has been sensitively handled so far by the council or the commission. it is widely seen as a further attack on essential public services. much has been said about the potential effects of the country of origin principle, but, if we are to be sensitive to the reality, there is much more to it than that. for example, in the uk, scotland’s legal and regulatory system is entirely separate from that of england and wales, and so on. i would like to see more recognition than we have to date not only of sensitivities at member state level, but of differences within member states as well.
mr president, the march summit was supposed to be about relaunching the lisbon agenda. sadly, i regret that it may well go down in history as somewhat a fudged affair. an apparent assault on liberal economics by the french president and others was not an edifying sight. being quoted calling the liberalisation of europe’s economies the new communism of our age, if true, was somewhat extraordinary. any attempt to undermine our services directive is sadly a clear sign that the anti-reform forces in europe remain active. president barroso said recently that some people think the european commission is there to protect the old ‘15’ against the new ‘10’. it is not. he is absolutely right; the services directive is a fundamental building block of a successful, dynamic economy. those who seek to undermine the progress of the internal market do no service to the millions of unemployed in their countries. on the contrary, as the new member states have demonstrated so clearly, it is the liberalising economies that are the successful job-creating economies. the so-called european social model has assumed such significance among some nations that it seems almost impossible to undertake proper reform. i am afraid that this new model, whatever merits it may have had in former times, is now something of an achilles heel to our economy. it has perpetuated high unemployment – 19 million at the last count; it fostered anti-enterprise cultures; and every day that we remain unreformed the competitiveness of china, the united states and india increases, to our disadvantage. as i have mentioned to mr barroso, i believe that he is very sincere in his drive to get the required reforms, but he has been badly let down by others; by heads of government, including our british prime minister, whose short-termism has made it much more difficult for mr barroso to make progress. there are some good council conclusions, such as on the kyoto protocol and sustainable development, but i am afraid that the heavy-handed tactics of some leaders, trying to put a brake on our economic reform and playing games with an increasingly discredited stability and growth pact, serve as a timely reminder to us all that we could have our interests sacrificed to short-term political interests if we are not vigilant.
mr president, i should like to request that, if the verts/ale group makes a similar request on romania, the vote as to whether we delay be taken by roll call.
rapporteur.– mr president, as the rapporteur on bulgaria, i would be very much against any delay in the assent procedure. (applause)we have overcome the interinstitutional problem concerning the budget. safeguard clauses have been built into the accession treaty. there is no good reason to delay giving our assent. i believe that it would be irresponsible on the part of this house to have any delay today. i call upon the house to vote in favour of assent. (applause)
mr president, would it be possible for the secretariat to remind mr cohn-bendit that it was the european parliament that recommended 2007 as the entry date for romania, and therefore now is the time to activate that recommendation?
in writing. 'the alde group tabled an amendment to the 2006 calendar which would have ended all plenary sessions at lunchtime on thursdays and started the brussels sessions at 10.30 on the wednesday. the purpose of this was to ease members' travel from strasbourg and to suppress the fag-end thursday afternoon sessions. unfortunately, this amendment was deemed inadmissible by the authorities.'
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have long supported attempts to ensure that the european parliament has only one official seat, and that it should be in brussels. the costs to the taxpayer of the strasbourg seat is estimated at around £150 million per annum. this is a gross waste of public funds. british taxpayers deserve to have value for money. our proposal to delete strasbourg days does not imply that we wish to reduce our hours of work but to carry out our work where it is most effective and cost efficient, namely in brussels. the costs of having to support parliamentary operations in both strasbourg and brussels have now become indefensible, and we will continue to campaign to have parliament sit only in brussels in future.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament vote to give assent to bulgarian membership of the eu, but insist that the bulgarian authorities must continue down the path of judicial reform, as any weakening will result in a reconsideration of the european parliament position.
in writing. i, like my british conservative colleagues, support romanian and bulgarian accession and regret the 11th-hour attempts by some members to assent to those countries on the grounds of interinstitutional wranglings and budgetary considerations, now resolved anyway. although the delay of 20 months between our assent and eventual accession on 1 january 2007 is ludicrously long, it is too late to have this debate now and our position on this should have been made clear earlier. i am reassured by the commitment of president basescu's new government in romania that corruption will be considered a threat to national security and aggressively prosecuted. furthermore, the commitment given to plenary by commissioner rehn that our parliament will be fully involved in the unlikely decision of activating the safeguard clause to delay accession by one year. not giving our assent now would send all the wrong signals to the people and governments of romania and bulgaria and would be a grave mistake, and i welcome both countries in the eu.
in writing. the eplp welcomes the directive on drivers hours. we believe they will make a major contribution to road safety. we had however reservations about amendment 11 concerning the express delivery industry. while recognising that there may be a problem in some countries we feel that the solution being proposed is unworkable and so could bring the directive into dispute. accordingly we chose to abstain on that amendment.
in writing. i and my british conservative mep colleagues have abstained on this vote because of our strong disappointment with the outcome of the european council on 22-23 march. we remain supportive of the president of the commission's commitment to fundamental economic reform in europe, but believe his efforts have been badly served by the decisions of heads of state and government at the march european council. the attempt to dilute the services directive for short-term political considerations has undermined the reform agenda and inhibits attempts to improve europe's competitiveness. the changes put forward to the stability and growth pact demonstrates that political factors are outweighing economic considerations, making the pact increasingly less credible. we welcome some aspects of the presidency conclusions, including the commitment to sustainable development and the kyoto protocol and also the motion's strong words against lifting the arms embargo on china. we also welcome the increased sense of urgency in preparing for a possible flu pandemic.
mr president, i was in bosnia-herzegovina recently and saw the successful start of eufor, the eu peacekeeping mission. bitter enmities remain between the country’s bosnian, croatian and serbian groups. in spite of the fact that up to 10 000 people are implicated in war crimes, only 34 public indictments have been made. the road to brussels cannot be journeyed until respect for the eu’s standards of justice is achieved. that is why the european parliament is right today to insist on full cooperation with the icty by bosnia-herzegovina, croatia, and serbia. today europe invests 25 times more money and 50 times more troops per capita in kosovo than in afghanistan. it is in the eu’s economic, as well as political, interest to integrate the western balkans, and it is their historic destiny. the prospect of eu enlargement helped the countries of eastern europe to transform. we have to hope and work to ensure that it is the same for the countries of south-east europe, so that they can join us as well in this parliament and in our union.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this report clearly shows where the european union is heading. it calls for the common foreign security and defence policies contained in the european constitution to be initiated without waiting for the inconvenient and unpredictable matter of its ratification by the member states. the report contains the telling line that the fight against terrorism blurs the traditional distinction between foreign and domestic policy. this is another example of how any argument will be used in order to promote european integration in any and all spheres of policy. the threat from terrorism makes national borders and national interests all the more vital, not less so. this report is another step in the process of the european union attempting to further its foreign policy and military ambitions in order eventually to rival the united states of america on the world stage. meanwhile, all talk of an ethical foreign policy is put into perspective by the european council’s intention to lift the embargo on arms sales to china, which mr brok rightly criticises and which is driven by the requirements of the french arms industry. parliament’s opposition to the lifting of the arms embargo on china will, of course, be ignored by the council, demonstrating once again the irrelevance of this parliament. britain should regain control of its own foreign, security and defence policies. the only way to do that is through the uk independence party’s policy of unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, if you take the view that the european union should evolve into some sort of integrated european state, then it is both logical and necessary that it should have its own currency, its own police and judicial system, its own diplomatic representation, its own army and defence budget and all the rest of the panoply of statehood brought together under the legal framework of a constitution. the two reports before us today derive their inspiration precisely from this impulse. i have to say that british conservatives take a rather different view. we are fundamentally opposed to further european political integration. in fact, we would seek to unwind and repatriate many of the excessive powers that brussels has accrued. not surprisingly, therefore, we oppose the very idea of a european constitution as well as its detailed ingredients. the reports focus particularly on security and defence policy. they seek to enhance the eu’s military credentials by distorting the nature and role of nato and then sidelining that organisation while wastefully duplicating its structures, seeking to displace the nations as actors in the transatlantic security relationship while claiming ownership of their capabilities, and subscribing to misplaced ideas of socially engineering our armed forces. i do not believe that the european nations have strategic security interests that should be separated from those of its transatlantic and other allies. there may be times when europeans should bear primary responsibility for provision of military forces in their own region. that is precisely what has happened in the past ten years or more in the former yugoslavia, where it is mere sleight of hand to imply that the eufor military operation in bosnia is fundamentally different to that which was there before. of the 7 000 troops in nato’s sfor, over 6 000 were european. it is dishonest, therefore, to pretend that the eu is contributing to any enhancement of security when most of its member states are reducing rather than increasing their defence expenditure and the eu itself is merely replicating the planning, decision-making and command and control systems of the highly successful organisation that is nato.
president of the council. mr president, i think that once again this debate has shown the extremely valuable contribution of your parliament to the broad guidelines, the broad concepts of the common foreign and security policy. it also showed that this dialogue, so much desired by parliament, is very much in existence and i understand that parliament is asking for this contact, this dialogue with the council and the commission. the debate showed that dialogue does not exist only a posteriori, to talk about the past, but also for the present and for future policies. i think, moreover, as someone has said, that we should not pursue a foreign policy against parliament. in all the years that i have had the pleasure of representing the presidency, i have never had the impression that the council was pursuing a policy against parliament. i rather felt that the policy was being carried out in perfect harmony and, moreover, the debates today, but also those of the past meetings, on the middle east, on lebanon, on the balkans a few hours ago, show that parliament is involved not only in the analysis of our policy but also in the design and future orientations of this policy. i can only see a broad consensus on the broad lines of this policy, on all its facets, on the concept that europe must have of security, on the fact that this security is not only security in political and military terms, but a comprehensive security which includes aspects such as the environment or human rights. i am also particularly sensitive to what has been said about the value of symbols and about what goes far beyond symbols: the fact that the meeting with military men who have the european stars on their shoulders is a tremor and actually shows that europe is moving forward, that the unification of europe is moving forward and that a new direction is being taken, particularly through security and defence policy. one last comment on china. i have taken a stand, mr jarzembowski, at a meeting of the committee on foreign affairs, and i see that my stand is gradually being confirmed. i think we have to face the facts: we have to develop a relationship with china, because it is a country that is growing in importance. it is therefore necessary to engage in a comprehensive dialogue with china covering all aspects. i am very grateful for your contributions, and i think that this was a rich debate, a useful debate and one which shows that the dialogue between the various institutions of the union is working.
member of the commission. mr president, like my colleague i think it was an interesting and comprehensive debate because it has shown that many specific questions have been tackled under banners of the cfsp and edsp. many of the individual issues will resurface in other debates we hold. of course we have not forgotten human rights. human rights have been mentioned by many of you and i think they are already intrinsic to our whole policy. it is very important that we become a global player with a european charter of human rights and, hopefully very soon, a constitution. there is an issue that was not mentioned in this debate, but i would like to mention it because it is so important for security and development. this is the gender issue that is being so well promoted in europe, including as part of our development and neighbourhood policies. this is part of the overall policy we want. i would also like to agree with the comment that the european union needs to work with partners to avoid nuclear and other sensitive materials coming into the hands of terrorists. this is a key objective in our joint work action plan. i also agree with mr von wogau and others who said that there is a very important link between internal and external security. this is also key for close cooperation between the different directorates in the commission and dg external relations. finally, there was a very specific question on demining. it is not only a problem in bosnia. it is an issue throughout the world and we are therefore very happy that the review conference of the ottawa convention banning anti-personnel landmines was held in kenya, where we saw that this issue that has been promoted by the european union has come forward very strongly. there are many more things to be done, but we have a good, comprehensive basis. let us work together on that basis.
president of the council. in reply to your question, mr seppänen, i would remind you that the procedure for adopting the statute for members of the european parliament is laid down in article 190 (5) of the ec treaty and article 108 (5) of the eaec treaty. according to these articles, the european parliament, after consulting the commission and with the approval of the council acting by a qualified majority, is to determine the conditions governing the performance of the duties of its members and the conditions for their appointment. the presidency of the council intends to conclude, if possible during the current six-month period, the negotiations on the status of members of the european parliament, including those on entry into force. i can assure you that contacts are being made continuously to achieve this end.
president of the council. you will recall that we were very close to a compromise under the irish presidency. unfortunately, we failed to achieve our aim, which was a compromise negotiated between the council, and in particular the irish presidency, on the one hand, and parliament on the other. i think that many elements of this compromise are still valid and, therefore, i think it is a good starting point. however, for obvious reasons, it is necessary to define where adjustments are necessary. we're working on it. i can assure you that we are working, in the council and also with parliament, on solutions which are acceptable - acceptable, i hope, for all member states if possible, or at least for a qualified majority of them.
i wonder whether the president-in-office of the council has had a chance to study yesterday's vote in the european parliament on the discharge. if so, does he agree with me that parliament's lack of will, or ability, to reform its own house demonstrates the urgency of the need for the statute and that the only way to enhance the reputation of this institution is through the achievement of a members' statute?
president of the council. you are the only judges of the organization and internal functioning of parliament. i'm leaving you in charge. i can assure you that the presidency is determined to find a solution with parliament and with the council. that is the commitment we have made and i hope we will succeed.
president of the council. any solution must be global, a kind of package, as you have called it. of course, i can't guarantee at this point that we'll have everyone on board. you probably remember the main reasons why this package was not negotiated. those were a little special reasons. we hope that this time a solution can be found, that everyone can support this solution and that no one will be impressed by a few articles in newspapers that i will not name.
we have a time-limit under the rules. each question is followed by two supplementaries. this is my first time in the chair for question time, and, because of the importance of the subject, this is the only time i will break the rule.
i think the presidency has answered that already.
president of the council. as regards the first point in your question, i believe that if there is a strong principle of the european union, it is that of non-discrimination. i think it should be applied here as well. the second part of your question about the balance of power is perhaps a question of subjective assessment. i can't give you a straight answer. but i believe that we are discussing this on the basis of a balanced package.
question no 2 by robert evans (h-0167/05) subject: wind power, wave and tidal energy bearing in mind the pressure on governments to reduce co2 emissions in accordance with the kyoto protocol, is there not scope for far more renewable energy developments? what steps are being taken to encourage wind power, wave and tidal energy, and are new initiatives hampered by the power of the oil industry lobby?
president of the council. i answer to the honorable robert evans. in the run-up to the annual spring european council meeting, the council in its environmental group adopted on 10 march 2005 a contribution to the deliberations on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy. in general, the council stressed the need to take action as from 2005, in particular to tackle climate change and to promote eco-innovation and the efficient use of energy and resources. in particular, it called on the spring european council to advocate sustainable consumption and production patterns supported by eco-efficient innovations, with a view to decoupling economic growth from resource use and environmental degradation. it also called on the commission to draw up a european initiative for energy efficiency in 2005 and a green paper containing a list of relevant measures. in essence, the council first recommended the full and urgent implementation of an ecotechnologies action plan etap in order to guarantee eco-innovations a fair and competitive market prospect. secondly, he called for the vigorous promotion of eco-innovation and eco-technologies in all sectors of the economy, in particular energy and transport. finally, it recommended mitigation measures to reduce the long-term risks and costs of climate change, leading to a low-carbon economy, including by enhancing the deployment and development of energy-efficient renewable energy technologies and new fuels.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for that response, and very wholesome it was too. may i draw your attention to the last point, where i refer to the power of the oil industry, which to my mind tends to ride roughshod over governments and strangle new initiatives in this field. i wonder whether you agree with me, either personally or in your capacity as president-in-office, that if similar investments had been made in alternative energy sources, funded by the oil industry, then we might have made the sort of substantial progress that council is now making. do you think we should put pressure on the oil companies to reduce our dependence on the world's diminishing supplies of fossil fuel?
president of the council. i think this is a question that every country has to ask at the national level. each country must choose the energy production methods with which it has the most affinity. i believe you have expressed, as it seems to me, an affinity for a particular energy source. i understand your position; i do not necessarily agree with it. the council, i think, leaves it to each member state to take whatever options it sees fit.
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0169/05) subject: europe's ageing population and review of early retirement schemes it is generally accepted that demographic developments and europe's ageing population mean that people will have to remain in active employment after the age of 55. does the council have a clear picture of the current policy of each member state on early retirement? what measures does the council intend to take to prevent the early retirement of workers once they reach the age of 55 so that the added value of their experience can be used, without reducing the job opportunities for young people and the unemployed?
president of the council. i believe that keeping older people in work should not be in contradiction with employing young people. the european council, in deciding to relaunch and revitalize the lisbon strategy, took an initiative with regard to young people, to offer them more job prospects. i think the two can go hand in hand, provided that we apply other ways of managing employment. but the management of employment is first and foremost done in companies, and companies should be aware of what you have said, namely that experience, and therefore age, has its price and value.
i am delighted that this item is on the agenda and that the issue of active ageing is being followed so intently by certain colleagues up in the gallery. it is an issue that affects many of us. could you confirm the active ageing policies of the european institutions, and specifically that there is no longer age discrimination in the employment policies that you and your colleagues operate as employers? you referred to the role of employers and the eu institutions are themselves employers. i did ask commissioner kinnock this question, but i never managed to get a straight answer. i wonder if you could supply one?
president of the council. if i understand your question correctly, there is no policy of discrimination within the institutions against people who have reached a certain age. i would remind you that last year the commission proposed a report for the spring council which focused on the idea of active ageing. i think it is up to the institutions to promote this idea. i do not think there is any real policy of discrimination within the institutions. we meet people of all ages, with, of course, the retirement age as the limit, but that's another debate.
question no 4 by mairead mcguinness (h-0172/05) subject: childcare institutions in romania given the likelihood that the accession treaty with romania will be signed in april, can the council outline the progress, if any, made in the human rights situation in romania, with particular regard to the conditions for children and young adults in orphanages and other state-run institutional facilities? is it satisfied that sufficient progress has been made in this area to allow for the signing of the accession treaty?
president of the council. the european council of december 2004 noted with satisfaction that romania's progress in implementing the acquis and the commitments entered into had made it possible to formally close all outstanding chapters in the accession negotiations. today, i believe, you have decided to adopt the assent with a view to romania's accession. taking note of the assessments and recommendations presented by the commission, the european council considered that romania would be able to assume, by the time of its accession, all the obligations arising therefrom. at the same time, the european council made it clear that the union would continue to follow closely - and i believe this was said amply this morning - the preparatory work carried out by romania and the results achieved. the council therefore assures the honourable member that, as in the past, the question of children will be followed very closely. it also noted that in its 2004 report on romania's progress towards accession, the commission noted steady progress in the reorganisation of child protection, notably through the closure of large, outdated institutions and the introduction of alternative formulas. the union has also provided financial support to romania's efforts to improve the quality of public childcare facilities. although there is still work to be done and further improvements to be made, it can be said that overall the living conditions of children in romanian public institutions have improved markedly and that the romanian authorities will continue their efforts to fully implement the reform of the child welfare system, as of course all the institutions, and in particular the council and the commission, have called for.
president of the council. i think this is a matter for the commission first and foremost and i regret to say that i cannot give you any further details. that is a question that must be put to the commission.
question no 5 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0174/05) subject: the disenfranchisement of expatriate voters re constitution treaty is the council aware that many british citizens who have chosen to retire to other eu member states cannot currently vote in national referenda on the proposed european constitution? under current domestic legislation, if they left the uk more than 15 years ago they no longer have the right to vote there, yet they are not automatically granted the right to vote in their new country of residence either. whilst it is up to individual member states to grant such a right, should there not be some coordination between member states so that the voices of such people can be heard? surely it has to be fundamentally wrong that any european citizen is denied a vote on such an important issue? does the council know how many european citizens are affected in such a way, and can it propose ways for member states to work together to resolve the problem?
president of the council. the council would remind the honourable member that the organisation of electoral procedures and the rules relating to the capacity to vote are governed by the internal law of each member state. while it considers it important that the right to vote be exercised as widely as possible throughout the union, it is not for the commission to decide on the questions raised by the honourable member.
i would not only like to ask a supplementary question but would also like to re-ask the original question, because i notice that the minister has now ducked the previous question as well as this one, which is not very appropriate. i accept that this is a matter for member states. my question is whether the council can, by encouraging use of best practice, use its influence so that we can better learn from each other. my attention has been drawn specifically to the case of british expatriates in spain who have told me that, whereas they used to be able to vote in their home country of the uk provided they had been registered within the previous 20 years, our present government has now made it more difficult by reducing this time to 15 years. do you know of any other member state that is making it more difficult for expatriates to vote and would you not wish to encourage your colleagues to make it easier? please answer and do not say nothing.
i turn to the minister. i believe that mr bushill-matthews is on to something here, but we are both conservatives!
president of the council. i think, frankly, that the constitution has defined the union's powers better. this is not really an area of the union's competence. it is therefore up to each member state - i can only repeat what i have already said - to define its electoral law, even if it is desirable that this right should be as broad, as effective and as well organised as possible, but this remains a matter for each member state.
question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-0177/05) subject: christians in turkey what is the council presidency doing to assist christian churches and religious communities in turkey in finally obtaining a guaranteed legal status, which would be an important step in the direction of religious freedom?
president of the council. i think you are a little ahead of yourself, mr president, since we are not yet in negotiations with turkey. we are in a kind of dialogue with turkey, and the commission in particular, to ensure that the reform processes it has undertaken are actually pursued. i can assure you that if negotiations with turkey are opened after 3 october, parliament will of course be informed of the progress of these negotiations.
question no 7 by gunnar hökmark (h-0185/05) subject: european union list of terrorist organisations despite the fact that hizbollah is an organisation that has claimed responsibility for a number of terrorist acts, the eu has chosen not to list hizbollah as a terrorist organisation. the reason put forward for this is that the situation in the region is too sensitive. in fact, the situation currently appears to be so sensitive that indifference on the part of the eu towards hizbollah is considerably more dangerous. hizbollah is financed by iran and its acts are sanctioned by syria, which makes hizbollah a threat not only to the peace process between israel and the palestinian authority, which has now resumed, but also to the nascent aspirations to independence of the lebanese. hizbollah is an organisation dedicated to terrorism, which is indisputable. the organisation must, therefore, be included on the european union's list of terrorist organisations. for all the forces working for peace and freedom in the middle east, it is important that the eu clearly signals its opposition to the iranian-sponsored terrorism of hizbollah. when does the council intend to regard hizbollah as the terrorist organisation it undoubtedly is?
president of the council. i think your question goes beyond the slightly more specific topic of hezbollah. there has been some debate about the best approach to take in this particular case and there are several options. of course, the greatest threat to the peace process is terrorism. we still need to know how best to combat this scourge and, so far, i can only confirm what i have just said, that the approach adopted at this stage is not to include the organization you referred to, namely hezbollah, on the list for the time being. this does not mean that we do not consider the activities of this group to be dangerous, but this is the approach we have chosen and it is not disputed by some of our most important partners.
i wish to support the council in the approach it takes to hizbollah. there is a certain logic. if you oppose terrorism – which we all do and we know hizbollah has links to terrorism – then proscribe hizbollah. however, that would be a very short-term approach, because there will be no permanent settlement in the middle east without the active participation of hizbollah. therefore, while the council is right to keep the issue of proscribing this organisation under review, it would be far better in the short run to have a dialogue.
given the financial connections between iran and hizbollah, is the council’s ‘softly softly’ approach to iran, as illustrated by its weak attitude to iran’s pursuit of its nuclear ambitions, also at work on this subject? are we seeing that same ‘softly softly’ approach to hizbollah because of the iranian connection? i believe hizbollah to be one of the most pernicious and vicious terrorist organisations at work in our dangerous world today and it should be treated accordingly? if the experience of my part of the world teaches us anything, it is that cosying up to terrorism does not work. what has happened with the ira since demonstrates that beyond all doubt.
president of the council. i don't think this is about whether or not to wear gloves. you have also put this question in a wider context. we must also, and we are doing so, hold talks with iran on its attitude and support for terrorist activities and also on its attitude towards a peaceful settlement of the middle east problem. we have done so and we are doing so in the overall approach we have adopted and are applying with that country, particularly in the context of non-proliferation. as regards hezbollah, to say a word about mr martin's intervention, i think it is a complex group. this organisation has several facets, including the parliamentary aspect, since it is represented in the lebanese parliament. that is also why i emphasized in my reply that the lebanese side cannot be excluded, cannot be separated from the more specific context of terrorism against israel.
question no 8 by david martin (h-0186/05) subject: negotiations on croatian accession what is the council's assessment of the current state of negotiations for croatian accession to the eu?
president of the council. the european council of june 2000 established that all the countries of the western balkans were potential candidates for membership of the european union. since then, in june 2003, the european council has reaffirmed its determination to fully and effectively support the european perspective of the western balkan countries, which will become an integral part of the european union as soon as they meet the established criteria. it is therefore essentially up to the countries concerned - and i think the debate we have had on the western balkans has sufficiently shown this - to determine the pace of their rapprochement with the union by aligning themselves with the acquis and by meeting the criteria set by the copenhagen european council. on 16 march 2005, the council reaffirmed the european union's commitment to croatia's accession and adopted the framework for negotiations with croatia. he also stressed the importance of full cooperation by all the western balkan countries with the icty. this is a key requirement for their continued rapprochement with the european union and i think i emphasized this again in the previous debate. as a result, after deliberation in the council and in the absence of common agreement, the opening of accession negotiations with croatia was postponed. the bilateral intergovernmental conference will be convened by mutual agreement as soon as the council has established that croatia is cooperating fully with the icty and you know that, in order for the council to be able to take this decision in full knowledge of the facts, a group has been set up under the chairmanship of the presidency, but involving the two successive presidencies as well as the commission and the high representative. a first meeting with the croatian government will take place on 26 april to discuss precisely this aspect of cooperation with the hague tribunal.
your answer was very helpful, but, if the fugitive general is out of croatia, what evidence will the croatian authorities be able to give to you to show that they are cooperating with the international criminal court? it seems that they are now in a bind. if he has left croatian territory they will be unable to capture him. if they cannot capture him, how can they show willingness to comply with the international criminal court?
president of the council. mr president, i think i have already had the opportunity to give a clear answer to that question. it was never said that the condition for opening negotiations with croatia was the arrest of general gotovina and his transfer to the hague. that was never considered a condition. the condition is that croatia cooperates with the hague tribunal, which means cooperation in providing all the information necessary for the arrest. indeed, if the general is somewhere, i don't know where, we can't force the croats to arrest him if he's not on their territory. so i think that this condition should not be confused with the more general one of full cooperation with the court, that is, the provision of all the information necessary for the arrest. if this arrest cannot be made because there may not be enough information to do so, that does not mean that croatia's membership will be blocked permanently. it would be unfair to this country.
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question no 9 by enrique barón crespo (h-0188/05) subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso, a european citizen in iraq on 8 april 2003, as a consequence of attacks by united states forces, josé couso, a spanish and european citizen working as a cameraman for the tele 5 station, taras protsyuk (reuters news agency) and tareq ayoub (al jazeera) died while doing their job of reporting events. up to now, the us authorities have not launched any investigation or judicial proceedings. however, the same authorities have agreed to open an investigation, with italian involvement, in relation to the unjustified attack carried out by the same forces when the italian and european citizen giuliana sgrena was freed on friday, 4 march 2005. what steps must be taken to ensure that an investigation is carried out with sufficient guarantees that it will clarify who bears criminal responsibility and who is liable to pay compensation in relation to the murder of the european citizen josé couso, and of his fellow journalists who died while doing their duty of informing the public? question no 10 by willy meyer pleite (h-0191/05) subject: investigation into the murder in iraq of the journalist josé couso whilst carrying out their work as journalists josé couso, a spanish citizen (cameraman for the spanish tv channel tele 5), taras proyuk (reuters press agency) and tarek ayoub (the tv channel al jazeera) were killed by the united states’ attack on the palestine hotel in baghdad on 8 april 2003. the us authorities have remained totally silent about this dramatic murder ever since and there have not been any investigations or judicial process.however, the same authorities have decided to start an investigation, together with the italian government, into the unjustified attack by the same forces on 4 march 2005, which caused the death of nicola capilari, following the release of the italian journalist giuliana sgrana. what steps will the eu take to ensure that an investigation is started, with adequate guarantees of impartiality, to ascertain responsibility for the murder of josé couso and his colleagues, who died whilst carrying out their duties? question no 11 by david hammerstein mintz (h-0205/05) subject: investigation into the murder of journalist josé couso, a european citizen in iraq on 8 april 2003, as a consequence of attacks by united states forces, josé couso, a spanish and european citizen working as a cameraman for the tele 5 station, taras protsyuk (reuters news agency) and tareq ayoub (al jazeera) died while doing their job of reporting events. the us authorities have not yet launched any investigation or judicial proceedings in this matter. however, the us has decided to open an investigation, with italian involvement, into the unjustified attack carried out by the same forces on 4 march 2005 during the release of the italian journalist giuliana sgrena, which caused the death of nicola calipari (head of sismi). what steps must be taken to ensure that an investigation is carried out which will make it possible properly to establish both criminal responsibility and liability for compensation in relation to the murder of the journalist josé couso and his colleagues while they were carrying out their task of informing the public? question no 12 by josu ortuondo larrea (h-0216/05) subject: investigation into the murder of the journalist josé couso in iraq on 4 march 2005, the freeing of the italian journalist giuliana sgrana led to the killing of the italian citizen nicola calipar by the us army. under pressure from italian public opinion, the italian government and the usa have decided to carry out a joint investigation to attempt to clarify this unhappy event. but the cases of the spanish tele 5 cameraman, josé couso, the ukrainian reuters cameraman taras prosyuk and the al jazira television cameraman tarek ayoub, who were all killed as a result of an attack carried out by us forces on the hotel palestine in baghdad, have not been the subject of any investigation or court proceedings to date, as far as we know. given that josé couso was a european citizen, what steps could be taken on the part of the european union with a view to carrying out a joint investigation with the us authorities, so as to throw light on what happened and, where appropriate, determine who was responsible? question no 13 by ignasi guardans cambó (h-0219/05) subject: investigation into the killing of josé couso in iraq on 8 april 2003, us armoured vehicles fired at the 14th floor of the hotel palestine in baghdad, where several journalists covering the war were staying. josé couso, a spanish journalist, lost his life in the attack, as did two other journalists, taras protsyuk and tareq ayoub. two years on, the us authorities have still to carry out a credible and independent investigation in order to clarify the course of events and the reasons for such meaningless deaths. what steps does the council intend to take to secure an investigation and uncover the reasons behind the us attack on the hotel palestine on 8 april 2003? question no 14 by jean-marie cavada (h-0240/05) subject: investigation into the death of the journalist josé couso on 8 april 2003 two cameramen, spaniard josé couso working for the television station telecinco and ukrainian taras protsyuk working for reuters news agency, were killed in baghdad when the american army fired on the palestine hotel, where several hundred non-embedded journalists were staying. on the same day, 8 april 2003, jordanian journalist tarek ayoub from the al-jazira channel was also killed during an american air raid. according to reporters without borders, the report provided by the american authorities on the circumstances surrounding these tragedies is inadequate. it does not identify those responsible, and conceals the lack of communication between the soldiers who fired on the palestine hotel and their superiors with regard to the fact that journalists were present inside the building. what steps might be taken by the european union with a view to an independent inquiry being held into the circumstances surrounding the death of josé couso, in order that the culprits are identified and tried and the victim's family receives compensation?
president of the council. first of all, i would like to thank mr cavada for pointing out that 100 days ago mrs aubenas was taken hostage with the person accompanying her. i believe that i can, on behalf of the council, and in any case on behalf of the presidency, express our full solidarity with mrs aubenas and indeed with all the hostages in iraq, since there are others. there's another group of three romanian journalists who were taken hostage. it is time to express our solidarity with them and our willingness to do everything possible to secure their release as soon as possible. i also understand, in a way, the disappointment that has been expressed. but i can't go any further. indeed, since a lawsuit has been brought, the families have filed a complaint, they have brought a lawsuit, i cannot, at this stage, get more involved and express a political position on this matter. believe me, we continue to follow all these cases and incidents closely, some of which have been particularly tragic.
question no 15 by manuel medina ortega (h-0193/05) subject: the european union's relations with the andean community how does the council envisage the european union’s future relations with the andean community of nations and what steps does it consider should be taken so that the european union may help strengthen it?
president of the council. if i understand you correctly, mr president, this is a process between latin american countries, that is to say between the mercosur countries and the andean community. i believe that the european union's objective is indeed to encourage all forms of regional integration, and the more extensive they are, the better. i think that is an approach that we can only encourage. and if these countries succeed in further developing their cooperation, and even their integration, i believe that this must also be taken into account in their relations with the european union.
question no 16 by bill newton dunn (h-0195/05) subject: activities of the secret services in its reply to my question h-0139/05 at question-time on 9 march, the council of ministers confirmed in the chamber that it knows that the activities of the member states’ secret services in our fight against organised crime are coordinated, but it said that it had no details. if that apparent contradiction can possibly be true, does the information about coordination among secret services reach the council as a simple anonymous note saying ‘we are coordinating but will not give you any details’ ? is the council satisfied with knowing nothing about the activities of what our secret services are doing jointly ? who, then, if anybody, keeps an overall ministerial eye on their secret coordinated activities which, we must hope, are carried out usefully on behalf of europe’s citizens?
president of the council. the council already had the opportunity to say this to the honourable member at its march session: the council secretariat has not been informed of the activities carried out by the secret services of the member states in the fight against organised crime. no provision of union law requires member states to communicate such data to the council. as the council has already had the opportunity to make clear to the honourable member during question time in march, this does not mean that there are no contacts between national intelligence services of the member states in this particular area.
like all of us here in this chamber – or all those who should theoretically be in this chamber at this moment – you represent the public. we in parliament do not want to know the operational secrets. of course we do not, because that would be very damaging. but we want to know, on behalf of the public whom you represent and whom we represent, whether an elected politician is in charge of coordinating the activities that the secret services jointly carry out. is anybody watching what they are doing? if you say the council is not doing so, then who is? who is elected? who is coordinating and supervising this work? it is very alarming if you say nobody is.
president of the council. i believe that the control of secret services is primarily the responsibility of those member states and that it is those member states which must ensure that the activities of the services concerned are carried out within the limits of the rule of law and in accordance with their laws.
as the time allocated to question time is at an end, questions nos 17 to 41 will be answered in writing for questions not taken see 'question time' annex.. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
author.– mr president, as the commission will be aware, we have almost 300 jobs at risk at the british cellophane plant in bridgwater in my constituency in the united kingdom. this plant has been taken over by a company called innovia, which currently has plants in kansas, carlisle and bridgwater. what is being proposed threatens to rip the heart out of the town of bridgwater; allowing for suppliers to the company, almost one thousand jobs are at risk in the area. tonight we have an almost unprecedented request from all parties – labour, conservative and liberal democrat – in the region and in the united kingdom, who are united in their reaction to this appalling decision by innovia and are asking for the commission’s help and assistance. what leads the company to make this decision? the plant in kansas has never in its history made a profit; the plant in bridgwater has never in its history made a loss. but we have a proposal to close bridgwater. why? because the state of kansas, led by a democratic majority, who, in spite of the opposition of republicans in the state house of representatives and the state senate, has offered innovia certain things. the first is a bribe of usd 2 million to shift jobs from the european union to the united states. the second is a five-year tax holiday, which means that all the taxes paid by the workforce will be paid back to the company over the next five years. and, most interestingly, it has offered a suspension of environmental regulations, which will allow the cellophane to be produced cheaply and re-exported back to the european union. i should like to ask the commission whether these financial bribes are allowable under wto rules. if not, will it raise the issue with the us government? what will be done when innovia produces cellophane in kansas and dumps it back on the european market? how will the commission tackle that problem? also, while i agree that at the moment the wto rules do not forbid environmental dumping, and while we recognise that different countries may have environmental standards that differ from ours, we object to the suspension of those different standards, something we are increasingly likely to see because of the kyoto agreement. in the european scheme of things, this is comparatively small beer. nevertheless, it is very important for the region. it is also very important in terms of the precedent it sets for the future, because if the united states, its companies and its state governments can get away with this on one occasion, there is absolutely no reason why they will not do it again and again. therefore, this is an important issue of principle that the commission needs to take seriously, and i expect some action.
author.– mr president, i rise on behalf of my group to add my concern to that expressed by previous speakers about this terrible situation in relation to an innovative and, frankly, quite remarkable company in the constituency that mr ford and i represent. innovia films is a profitable company, which has developed a process discovered in the united kingdom in 1898. i suspect that had that process been discovered in scandinavia in 1998, it would have been viewed as best available technology, plastic packaging would have been banned and cellophane would have been used instead. sadly, for cellophane, it was discovered rather earlier. however, i welcome the cross-party support that is being shown for the campaign to recognise the problems being caused by the policy of the americans and to deal with this issue. this morning we debated the outcome of the european council meeting held to review the lisbon agenda. in the resolution adopted by parliament with cross-party support, we agreed that there has to be such a thing as industrial policy. if there is industrial policy, then we have to look at how we can support companies like this one. when i wrote to commissioner piebalgs on behalf of the company some while ago, in order to see whether any kind of support was available for that company, he replied that there are programmes that support new and innovative systems, but this case would not be eligible for such support. i wonder if we should not be looking again at our industrial policy. the letter from commissioner mandelson to mel dando, one of the trade union officers involved, looks at the problems that we have encountered with the policy at the plant in kansas, as regards declaring a tax holiday and suspending environmental regulations. mr mandelson points out that the measures, in the form of tax exemptions, appear to be subsidies but do not fall into the prohibited category. he then goes on to point out that there are no provisions in the wto agreements that cover environmental dumping and says that, therefore, these measures appear not to be in breach of current wto rules. my question to the commission will be this: if there are no provisions in the wto agreements that cover environmental dumping, why not? what is the commission doing to ensure that we have provisions to cover environmental dumping? this incident, affecting, as mr ford said, perhaps not a huge number of jobs when viewed on a european scale, but a very large number of jobs when viewed on the scale of a small industrial town like bridgwater, is one that could be replicated right across the european union if we found that the policy of different states in the united states of america in this area was about to rob us of jobs in this way. this is the ugly face of capitalism. we have here a buy-out of a company by a consortium dedicated to asset-stripping and to returning as much money as possible to the investors without looking at the general health of our society and our industries. it is the kind of case on which the commission should take action. i hope that commissioner verheugen, the commissioner here tonight, and commissioner mandelson will raise this case with the americans and see what we can do to get action to save the plant in bridgwater and to save potentially many other hundreds of thousands of jobs across the european union that could be affected by this kind of development.
author.– mr president, i welcome the opportunity to debate fiscal and environmental dumping with regard to british cellophane in bridgwater. british cellophane has had a long and honourable history spanning more than 50 years. it has an enormous background of industrial muscle and might in bridgwater. bridgwater is also one of the leading industrial towns in the west country. over the long term, the workforce at british cellophane has been reduced but it has always had an outstanding productivity level, an outstanding relationship with its employees and has given outstanding help to the town at all levels. cellophane is a massively important commodity throughout the world. british cellophane produces approximately 60 000 tonnes per year. the commodity has been produced in highly productive, motivated and profitable plants. in the past few years the company has changed dramatically: it was bought by candell investments and i should like to talk about three of its five plants. two plants are in britain and one is in america. the two in britain are productive, motivated plants, one in the north and one in bridgwater. i wish to dwell on the third plant in kansas. kansas state legislators have spent an enormous amount of money to keep the plant there. we are talking about millions of dollars, not a few hundred thousand. they voted publicly to give public money to the plant and they have also been given a five-year environmental holiday to further undermine british cellophane’s prospects. it does not stop there. the plant is unproductive and does not make a profit. why would one give money to a plant that does not make a profit and is not productive, whether it is in china, australia or america? three hundred uk jobs in a profitable, highly productive plant are being put under threat by a plant that does not meet the wto rules. every year british cellophane puts approximately gbp 20 million into the economy from wages, direct and indirect goods. we are talking about a profitable and highly productive plant. it has done everything to change and it out-performs the americans by far. it produces more and better quality goods. the plant has done everything to stay profitable. we should not allow it to be sacrificed simply because an american plant can get away with something that we cannot. the subsidies are unfair trade, involve unfair dumping and the use of unfair competition against profitable plants. we should not allow this to happen. if this is a world of free trade, the world trade organization should be asked to consider this matter. i ask the commission to take this up urgently. there is cross-party support for this. i believe that the wto should act. i urge the commission to take up the case.
author.– mr president, in view of the fact that commissioner verheugen has stated that the commission is investigating whether the subsidies are directly promoting exports – which would be illegal – i should like to ask him, on behalf of the commission, to write to the company to ask it to defer its decision on the plant closure, which is due within 15 days, until that has been established.
mr president, this debate, looking at least at the great majority of contributions, has been very valuable. the whole issue of doping in sport has recently received much greater attention, which is important. the objections to doping are threefold. first of all it distorts the very nature of sport. those who take unfair advantage over their fellow athletes are simply destroying the whole purpose of sport. secondly, as we know, it damages the health of athletes. thirdly, i believe it damages society because it instils the notion that winning at all costs is the only purpose. colleagues have referred to the very considerable financial benefits and advantages that can be now gained, which makes this issue even more difficult. we have here present colleagues with olympic experience, and i believe that three member states are bidding to become hosts of the olympic games. does the commissioner think it might be appropriate, even this side of ratifying the constitution, for the council to adopt a joint resolution not merely condemning doping in sport, but stating what measures the individual governments that have a strong interest in winning the bid for the olympic games propose to take? my final point is this question of winning at all costs. one of the most memorable events in the recent olympic games was the case of the long-distance athlete who was likely to win, but was prevented from doing so by a member of the crowd simply running out and stopping him. he was given a special award in recognition of the fact that he continued the race even though it was quite clear that his chances of winning had been spoiled. it seems to me that if we are going to appeal to the young and to society at large, we have to get back to the basic purpose of sport. doping is a scourge that has to be dealt with.
mr president, i would like to concentrate on the issue of sole stocks. this regulation aims to recover sole stocks in the western channel and in the bay of biscay. it is crucial that we act to counter declining fish stocks, but it is always important that our response is proportionate. the commission proposal combines tough rules for setting total allowable catches with a scheme to limit fishing effort. the amendments proposed in parliament’s report would replace the commission’s proposal with one that aimed to manage the stock via agreed rules on setting catch limits. i welcome the amendments in the report by parliament’s committee on fisheries. the commission’s proposal was based on the premise that the sole stocks were in crisis and needed recovery plans. the amendments proposed in the committee’s report recognise that management action, rather than drastic fleet cuts, is more appropriate for this stock. i also strongly support the committee on fisheries’ recognition that the management action for this stock should be developed with the involvement of regional advisory councils and other stakeholders.
in writing. i welcome the aim of these proposals to help reduce waste and provide information for consumers. these proposals reinforce good practice already established in the uk where around 75% of the two million cars and vans reaching the end of their lives are traditionally recovered or re-used. however, i have some reservations about the benefits of applying the design standard to existing vehicle types, in which case the economic and administrative burden may outweigh the environmental gain.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party strongly supports the work being carried out tirelessly by lord ashdown, the high representative in bosnia-herzegovina. of course, we would wish that the functions of the office of the high representative are gradually incorporated into sovereign domestic institutions. however, in the interim period, it is vital that the high representative retains the right to use the powers expressed in his mandate when the circumstances require it.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party fully supports reform of the un security council, in order that it better reflects today's world, and also supports improvements in the way that the eu speaks at the un. however, it is inappropriate to talk of an eu seat, as the un charter does not allow for organisations such as the eu to become members. we would not wish to prejudge the outcome of the intergovernmental conference.
in writing. i welcome this resolution drawing attention to the problem of doping in sport. the number of doping incidents over the 2004 olympic games again demonstrates the need to combat this very real problem. the treaty establishing a constitution for europe provides an appropriate legal basis to draw up and implement community action in the field of sport. therefore we have the legal means to protect not only increasingly pressurised sport professionals, but also the countless minors and amateurs vulnerable to doping in sport. i particularly welcome the call for the commission to support a sustained information campaign in order to establish an effective prevention policy. it is also important for member states and the commission to co-operate closely with the world anti-doping agency (wada), the council of europe and the world health organisation (who) in a way which enables the european union to act effectively with regard to the prevention and control of doping.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, about a third of this poor, over-populated but democratic country of 140 million people is landless and forced to live on, and cultivate, flood-prone land. traditionally the majority muslim population has lived peacefully with other religious minorities, and bangladesh has a good record on education and civil rights for women. the majority bnp government, in power since 2001, has particular problems with economic reform as it is often blocked by political in-fighting and corruption. matters are not helped by the current boycott of parliamentary dialogue by the awami league opposition. there have been attacks on opposition figures, that is true, but the authorities to their credit have arrested eight suspects, in spite of them being part of the ruling party coalition, and two radical islamist groups have recently been banned. bangladesh also protests at india’s understandable attempts to fence off the porous international border which is subject to contraband, including illegal drug smuggling. one encouraging note is that growth has been steady at 5% for the past few years, but bangladesh now feels threatened by unlimited chinese textile exports. we in the european union need to be patient and give bangladesh every political and financial support, encourage good governance and the fight against corruption and islamic fundamentalism. i call upon the house to support my amendments to produce a more balanced resolution.
mr president, this motion is ridiculous. we are talking about a country of 143 million people. it is one of the poorest countries in the world still able to manage its own affairs. it has been a democracy for some time now. there are parliamentary elections, parliamentary democracy and governance. the country is about the size of belgium but has 143 million people. they are managing to feed themselves for the first time after many years of independence and of course there are problems. in sudan, 300 000 people were killed, but that does not relate to the issue about which we have just heard: the outrage at somebody being killed. a total of two ministers out of a government of fifty-six ministers does not make the government islamist. we need to have proportionality in our debates otherwise the world will laugh at us. the european parliament is supposed to be an important institution, but look at how many members are here. there are no more than fifty members in this chamber and they are apparently so concerned about this. we must use these human rights debates to talk about serious matters affecting people and their human rights. three hundred thousand people have been killed in darfur. what are we doing about that? let us introduce some proportionality and balance to our debates and give the issues we discuss in these human rights debates some serious consideration. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i would like to refer to just four points in this comprehensive and far-reaching report. firstly, on children and armed conflict, we welcome the emphasis on children’s rights. we have specifically sought to widen the definition of child competence to include messengers, spies, cooks and porters, because children in all these roles are vulnerable to risk. on the issue which divides this house, we insist that rape is a tool of war and therefore, access to full reproductive health rights has to be one of the human rights we defend in this report. second, on human rights and business, a major faultline has been identified in our debates between the promotion of corporate responsibility by companies themselves and public authorities using our responsibility to ensure the principle of corporate accountability. the un norms on business and human rights form the best basis from which to develop a set of global standards for the human rights responsibilities of transnational corporations and we must support them. third, on terrorism, the report is right to condemn terrorism in all its forms, as well as to insist that all actions to combat terrorism fully respect international human rights and humanitarian law. but the references in the report to targeting the democratic process and to the relationship between fundamentalism and terrorism go too near, we contend, to equating islam and the muslim peoples of this world with terrorism. i accept that is not mr coveney’s personal intention, but we wish to see that wording withdrawn to avoid any confusion. muslims are as committed to peace and non-violence as all other religions – and none – in this world. finally, we have sought to ensure that paragraphs 210 to 230 of the report address the specific instruments to promote human rights that we have as a european union: the human rights dialogues, the human rights clause in our agreement with third countries, our representations in geneva and new york, the actions and implementation of the guidelines and the european initiative on democracy and human rights. i invite other political groups in parliament next year to join us in focusing more exclusively on holding the council and the commission to account on how effectively these instruments are used. i invite the council in its response this afternoon to say that it will submit its own annual human rights report to this parliament so that this report next year can be a response to it. i thank mr coveney. his compliments to the shadow rapporteurs are more than returned. he has done an excellent job and it is a very good report. (applause)
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr coveney on his excellent report. i have always supported the highest civil and political rights and good governance for all states. democracy is the ideal form of government that enables the full consent of the peoples involved. nevertheless, the world is a complex place and a number of issues remain relative rather than absolute. for instance, a balance must be struck between a state’s right to defend itself against terrorist action and the need to ensure civil rights for prisoners. this is illustrated by the guantánamo bay situation. the united states felt that its national security was threatened after the 9/11 attacks and therefore had to detain large numbers of suspects until the lack of danger could be proven. now of course many have been released. another case is the reference to the condemnation of the security fence built by israel, which has dramatically reduced the number of palestinian suicide bombers who cross into israel to kill innocent israelis. yet many of my colleagues here believe that the fence represents an annexation of palestinian terrority by israel, although the final borders will be settled only through a land-for-peace deal. another issue is impunity, which of course we all rightly condemn. it is also a tricky issue as we have seen in countries such as algeria, or, in the past, south africa. the parliament of algeria is currently debating an amnesty for all those guilty of crimes against detainees, in the interests of peace and reconciliation and turning over a new page. regrettably perhaps, sometimes the carrot of amnesty is the only way of guaranteeing a lasting peace. i have been also involved in the report on uzbekistan and the question of a carrot-and-stick approach to this central asian republic which has no traditions of human rights or democracy and is now taking firm steps in that direction, something that must be encouraged. this house must also look more closely in general at the human rights clauses in the eu association agreements in countries such as syria, which continue to be one­party dictatorships. in the case of syria, there is also the issue of support for terrorist groups such as hezbollah. lastly, i remain deeply sceptical of the need for an eu human rights agency within or outside our borders. this would duplicate the work of other bodies such as the united nations, the osce or the council of europe.
mr president, i wish to concentrate my observations on two areas of this report in particular. the first is human rights abuses in kashmir and the second is the fight against terrorism. i wish to start by discussing paragraph 49 on kashmir. i would firstly like formally to thank mr coveney for his approach in dealing with this matter and the way in which he has been open to considering representations made by my colleague mrs lynne and myself. through a process of dialogue between our respective offices, paragraph 49 is now an adequate recognition of the position. of course i welcome the dialogue between pakistan and india, but we must not forget that the people of kashmir are also stakeholders in this process. we cannot expect real lasting peace in the region unless they are able to play their full and proper part in the dialogue. equally, i welcome the recognition of the role of the indian military and police in carrying out abuses and call upon the indian government to do all within its power to end such abuse immediately. equally, i urge the wider world to recognise that this burning issue between two nuclear powers deserves external input to facilitate dialogue between the stakeholders. on the issue of the fight against terrorism, i welcome paragraphs 101 to 108 as they deal directly with issues pertaining to the current situation in many countries, including some european states, where citizens who follow the islamic faith are being targeted in a systematic fashion for no reason other than the fact that they choose to follow the islamic faith or they are perceived to be muslim. this has been explicitly admitted by government ministers at a national government level and is something against which we must take a stand as a parliament. i am therefore encouraged by the above paragraphs, as we are taking a stand on the issue of the unnecessary and disproportionate erosion of civil liberties undertaken by governments against their own citizens under the guise of the prevention of terrorism. finally, i wish to highlight paragraph 111, to draw attention to the use by some states of torture by proxy and the potential reliance on evidence obtained by such means. i am saddened to say that there are reports of prisoners being removed from within the eu to outside countries, for evidence to be extracted by the use of torture. as a parliament we are duty­bound to disapprove of such activities.
mr president, this is a remarkable report: broad in its sweep and penetrating and positive in so many of its observations. the tragedy is that its very breadth confirms how widespread human rights problems still are throughout the world and how vital it is that those of us who care about such issues must make sure our voices are heard and that they prevail. i wish to highlight just one issue as raised in paragraph 49, on human rights issues in kashmir. i congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has worked with all political groups on this sensitive subject. i am happy to accept his compromise wording but i would still like to have seen references not just to the region of kashmir but also to the sufferings of the people of kashmir. this is after all a people issue. the previous paragraph, number 48, makes clear that the largest functioning democracy in the world is india, a country that i much admire. in my judgement, this should inspire india to assume greater moral leadership in the subcontinent and this means working not just with pakistan, but with all stakeholders to ensure that human rights abuses are resolved with urgency. yesterday the president of azad kashmir came to the parliament to open an exhibition at the start of eu-kashmir week, the first time there has been such an occasion. as a vice-president of the all-party group on kashmir in the european parliament, i said then and repeat now that the people of jammu and kashmir should take great heart from the fact that this group is genuinely all­party and genuinely represents all nationalities, and that this parliament remains committed to ensuring that their voices can be heard loud and clear here in this parliament. we must all look forward to the day when, with our support, the voices of the people can be heard equally loudly and equally clearly in the land of their fathers.
mr president, i am proud today to be sitting in the same chamber as mrs járóka and mrs mohácsi, although not so proud that so few members of this house or staff of the institutions belong to an ethnic minority. this is brought into sharp relief in this debate on the roma. we have a situation where this group will certainly be the biggest minority after the next enlargement. there is consensus – apart from with the last speaker but one perhaps – that something must be done. so what must be done? mrs bauer talked about the deep complexity of this problem. the fact is that we in this house are already able to point to those things that we can do, but that member states will not do. for example, there is the race equality directive. i have seen cases of roma people bringing employment discrimination cases in their own countries, but there are so few as to make this meaningless. we have in this house legislation already on the table that is not being implemented by member states. it is certainly not being implemented in the new member states. with mr agnoletto this morning, i met members of the roma community from italy. as is the case of my own country, the united kingdom, the diaspora of the roma in so-called old europe are suffering as much if not more than in the new countries, because they are suffering the extra degradation of being immigrants and roma. we must address both issues. this is a unified struggle and – apart from one speaker with whom i and many of us absolutely disagree – i want to place on record that the problem is so complex that there should be an all­party move on this resolution, signed and supported by all parties, that we cannot live in a european union where children from one ethnic minority are segregated in school, sent to school with people who supposedly have mental disabilities. that is not the european union i want to live in and we have the instruments in this house to ensure that member states start to act. i look forward to hearing whether the commissioner will take urgent action.
mr president, most people know that 1 may is international workers’ day, but i wonder how many people know that tomorrow, 28 april, is international workers’ memorial day? that is the day we remember those who have been killed in the workplace or by illnesses related to their work. health and safety at work has of course improved over the last few years in the european union, partly due to the legislation we have adopted ourselves. however, the ilo estimates that there is still one death globally every 15 seconds at work, that is 6 000 people dying every day, and it is said that work kills more people than war. by remembering those who have died, we can do more to prevent accidents at work. a local campaign in my constituency, organised by herbert styles, tried to persuade governments to do more by formally recognising international workers’ memorial day. that is why i am asking colleagues and our president, whose own country, spain, recognises international workers’ memorial day, to try to have that day formally recognised, so that we think about accidents at work.
mr president, this is an excellent report from an excellent rapporteur. it is a perfect example of one of the benefits of enlargement – of our welcoming ten new member states – that we have representatives with such strength and wisdom to improve the quality of our discussions. i am sure both the president and the commissioner would agree with that remark. i particularly welcome the comment that whilst healthcare is a matter for member states, nonetheless we can all learn a great deal from each other. that is absolutely true, and the more we can learn the better for each of us. i also commend the comments about the importance of having proper healthcare for elderly people such as myself. i have one comment for the commissioner, on which i will ask for his advice and particularly his nod of approval in a moment. i have written to him concerning a possible scam that is appearing in various eu countries. tourists who unfortunately fall ill are suddenly taken from their hotel and deflected to private hospitals where they are then landed with a hefty bill. even if they happen to be conscious when they are taken away and protest that they are entitled to equivalent free healthcare, they are nonetheless whisked off to a private hospital. i accept that this a matter for member states, but i ask the commissioner whether there is there anything he or we can do about it. is he aware of the extent of the problem and does he accept, as this report states, that citizens have the right to equivalent healthcare in every member state and that this needs reinforcing? what can he do to reinforce it? i would ask him to be so good as to reply in english saying what can be done, so that i can send this reply to my constituent in the west midlands.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all recall that the european agency for safety and health at work was set up by the european union in 1994 to respond to the growing need for information on the prevention of accidents at work. the aim of the agency is to improve the lives of people at work, while encouraging the flow of technical, scientific and economic information between all those concerned by safety and health at work, whether community institutions, member states, workers, employers or safety technicians. the commission proposed an amendment to the regulation establishing the agency in bilbao in 2004 to respond to the needs of the enlargement of the european union and to streamline the functioning of the tripartite administrative board, which now comprises 78 members. this new regulation formalises the existence of a presidency, while maintaining and consolidating the tripartite structure of the management board, which is composed of representatives of governments, member states, employers' and employees' organisations and of the commission. the new version also strengthens the role of the social partners, the link between the agency's objectives and the european strategy on occupational safety and health and emphasises the importance of smes. the european parliament has tabled a number of amendments which specify and clarify the wording of the original proposal. it also took up some of the questions put by the council. on the other hand, the commission did not envisage a change in the way the agency was designated in bilbao, in the sense of increased commission supervision of the agency. since the agency's establishment, the director of the agency in bilbao has been appointed by the management board on a proposal from the commission. it would be a shame to change this procedure, which is currently the norm in most agencies. i would like to thank the european parliament for the positive adoption of the proposal and for the new provisions it has put forward to specify or clarify its wording. thank you, sir.
rapporteur.– madam president, it is significant to me that tomorrow, the day we will vote on this report, is international workers’ memorial day. that is the day that commemorates the 60 000 workers per year who die globally from job-related injuries or illnesses and the many millions more who are injured. for the european union 15, the figures have been steadily improving over the last decade, but there is still nothing to be proud of. some 4 500 workers die each year as a result of accidents at work and many more from work-related illnesses. over four million still suffer significant injuries at work each year. this is the important backdrop to our debate today on the bilbao agency. as i have said, the figures for the eu 15 have improved over the last decade and i am convinced that the key health and safety directives that we have put in place, and the work of the bilbao agency itself, have made an important contribution to that improvement. as the commissioner has said, we are discussing the review and updating of the regulation governing the operations of the bilbao agency. that review was called for in the original regulation. it is a little later than it might have been, but that is because there has been a full external evaluation and a full consultation of all stakeholders, which has informed the commission’s proposal and indeed the recommendations from the council. as the commissioner has also said, the other imperative for change has been the enlargement of the european union, which has meant an increase in the board of the agency from 48 to 78 and has therefore necessitated a streamlining of administrative and management processes. the amendments that we have proposed fall into four main categories. the first are intended to clarify the objectives and tasks of the agency, improving the link with the priorities of the community strategy, strengthening the agency’s capacity for data analysis, focusing more on the needs of smes and providing accessible and comprehensible information to final users. secondly, there are amendments intended to take account of the enlargement of the union, clarify and improve the functioning of the governing board and strengthen its strategic role and the executive role of the bureau. thirdly, there are those intended to reinforce the role of the social partners in the agency’s network in the member states – a very important point – and those intended to reinforce cooperation with other community bodies in the social policy area. we have also, of course, tabled amendments to try to ensure a proper gender balance in the management structures of the agency. i shall pick out one or two of the more important ones. first, i would like to say that i am grateful to giovanni berlinguer and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for an excellent opinion. i have taken up a number of their suggested amendments, for example amendment 2, which underlines the need for the agency not only to collect and disseminate information, but also to analyse that information, identify risks and good practices, and promote preventive action. it also underlines the role of the agency as a risk observatory. amendment 4 concerns gender balance and the governing and management structures of the agency. amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 concern in different ways the added value the agency should bring to the data it collects and collates through analysis, evaluation, identification of best practice and dissemination of that information and best practice to where it is most needed, particularly with small and medium­sized enterprises. amendment 7 also underlines the need for the promotion of the harmonisation of statistics on work­related accidents and illnesses, a crucial point. a series of amendments then look at a number of technical and administrative matters concerning the composition of the board and bureau and their respective roles and responsibilities, and the interrelationships between the two bodies. we think these amendments will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the operation of the agency. the final point is the one the commissioner mentioned. that is amendment 23, dealing with the appointment of the director. i know the commission is not happy with it, but it reflects the procedure followed by the other agencies in the committee on employment and social affairs’ remit. the commissioner has also intervened recently in the appointment of directors at certain agencies. therefore maybe the amendment better reflects current reality. in short, the report seeks to strengthen the role and function of the agency, which has already done excellent work. i commend the report to the house.
madam president, i do not underestimate the importance of health and safety at all, but i must draw the attention of this house to the fact that european union regulations are undermining personal responsibility and, in many cases, the application of common sense. we are now told, for example, that teachers must be protected from noisy children. gliders are grounded because perfectly safe winches no longer meet new specifications. what business is it of this house to tell a builder that he must use scaffolding to refix a roof tile? it really is about time that the people of brussels discovered how irritating this interfering trivia could be. surely the health and safety of lorry drivers requires a new regulation: to dig up all the cobblestoned streets of brussels and replace them with concrete.
member of the commission. madam president, it is already clear the coming five years will be extremely challenging in this particular area. the smooth functioning of financial markets is essential and has a huge influence on the prosperity of each and every one of us. financial investments underpin jobs and growth; the value of our savings; our pensions; the cost of our mortgages. deep, liquid, dynamic european financial markets will ensure the most efficient allocation and provision of capital and services throughout the european economy, and beyond, in the global capital market. in the last six years we have seen major progress. most of the necessary rules outlined in the financial services action plan have been agreed on time and are now being put in place. european decision-making and regulatory structures have become more rational and efficient. continued systematic cooperation has developed between the european institutions and market participants. all institutions and a very large majority of the market participants agree we need to continue our efforts, because our job to integrate the european financial markets is far from finished. our key priority for the next 12 months is to complete unfinished business in the area of financial services. we still need to deal with the remaining elements in the negotiation phase before this house and the council, as well as the key measures now under preparation by the commission. for example, we still need to allow more risk-sensitivity in the capital requirements for banks and investment firms (basel ii); strengthen statutory audit (the eighth company law directive); fight money laundering and terrorist finance; cut down the costs for clearing and settlement; establish a european framework for reinsurance; modernise rules on insurance solvency; and create a european legal framework for payments. in other words, the regulatory measures currently under preparation are already extremely demanding for all of us. however, i am confident we can achieve a lot in the coming year. in the area of financial services, the commission commends the good work done in the committee on economic and monetary affairs over the last years, and, more particularly, the report we are discussing today. there is a considerable degree of convergence between our own thinking and the thinking in the european parliament. many of the main themes included in the report presented today by mrs van den burg on behalf of the economic and monetary affairs committee will also be reflected in the commission’s green paper on its future financial services policy. we address similar priorities. in a way there is no surprise there, as we have both been very transparent in our approach and preparatory work. i do not wish to dwell on all the recommendations set out in the report, but let me highlight some which i believe are particularly important. firstly, there is a clear need to coordinate transposition by the member states, strengthen enforcement and increase supervisory convergence. i broadly endorse the views expressed in the report. particularly, i think paragraph 14 gives the right nuance as some form of integrated supervision will only be beneficial if regulation is no longer fragmented. convergence will not occur if an integrated supervisor still needs to interpret and apply 25 different sets of regulations. therefore, the commission endorses a step-by-step approach, building on the european regulatory and supervisory committees in the area of financial services. secondly, the better regulation agenda is important. the commission agrees that future measures must be targeted and evidence based; impact assessments will be thoroughly applied. basic pan-european framework rules are needed so that businesses can develop european strategies and consumers can benefit from enhanced integration without artificial barriers. however, overlapping, contradictory and duplicative requirements create a burden and must therefore be withdrawn. thirdly, effective consultation is key. we all have listened very carefully to all different stakeholders: industry, large and small; regulators; supervisors; investors; workers and consumers. we have taken their constructive ideas on board and we have listened to each other. there is broad support for our common approach; a degree of consensus which is so crucial at the start of a new phase. i personally hope this convergence of thinking, the good contacts established and the open way of policy-making will guarantee a swift launch for our policy programme of ‘consolidation’ for the next five years. effective delivery of our common programme must be the mandate of the european commission and the european parliament. this week’s adoption of mrs van den burg’s report will therefore be an important step forward.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, i should like very sincerely to thank and congratulate mrs van den burg on her report. i thought we worked well as a committee to reach a reasonable and balanced template for the future of europe’s financial markets. the industry and all three european institutions have undergone a stressful five years of legislation in this area, and the most stressful stage, for the industry at least, is probably still to come. the result is certainly not perfect, and it certainly does not please everyone. however, in our group we are all agreed that breathing space is now required to see these 40-plus directives properly implemented by transposition into national legislation, and to build up experience of their operation. furthermore, the industry needs time to digest these often substantial changes to its ways of doing business. this will inevitably take time: it would be foolhardy to rush into further changes until we see how these work out in practice. after completion of the few remaining financial services action plan matters, there may be one or two other areas which need legislation – asset management may be one. nevertheless, the commission and this house need to be very careful that any such legislation really is necessary, justified by cost analysis and can be delivered usefully. whenever possible, non-legislative improvements would be our preferred route. the lamfalussy process has a key role in ensuring that the fsap legislation works for the benefit of both financial services companies and their customers. it is vital that transposition be implemented on-schedule and accurately, and we will expect the commission to keep an eagle eye on this, because we will be keeping our eagle eye on the commission. we will not hesitate to use our rights of challenge under the lamfalussy process if we see the need. we have made major strides towards an integrated european financial services market. in time this will be of great benefit to our economic prospects by providing the competitive capital market that europe needs and which we are striving to achieve. there are not many other projects that will contribute as much towards achieving the lisbon goals. it is now our duty to see that these matters are honed and perfected as they come into operation. it is now our duty, the duty of the commission and the duty of the member states to see that the financial services industry is given our full support in providing the essential ingredients of a successful european economy.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– madam president, ‘transparency’ is a much-used word in mrs van den burg’s report, but there is nothing transparent about the great jumble of committees and processes that she also describes. first, a committee of wise men was set up on the regulation of european securities markets. what wisdom did it bestow? a four-level regulatory approach and the creation of two more committees! then the commission appointed four expert groups to mark the first step in the action plan review process. that was in october 2003, long before all of the action plan had even been implemented. if that were not enough, there was input from a monitoring group and four other committees. who said ‘when in doubt, hold a committee meeting’? only a report from an eu institution could say with such a straight face that this is a powerful recipe for success, at least in terms of delivering legislation. the eu is very good at churning out laws: that is transparently obvious. however, i have a warning for ordinary people out there in the real world, like those in our visitors’ gallery: it is transparent to me that more regulation is coming, thus there will be more laws to break; there will be more interference in pensions and insurance matters; more european-level supervisory bodies that will override national ones; and more back doors through which the eu intends to interfere in national taxation policy. the report notes the existence of overlapping directives that might lead to contradictory and duplicate requirements. in the real world, this would be seen as a work of fiction, not a serious proposition. so, the eu confuses itself, but in the confusion, i should like to repeat one transparent certainty: if the eu is the answer, it must have been a very silly question.
mr president, the nitrates directive deals expressly with nitrates in groundwater. why, therefore, is it necessary for this groundwater directive also to deal with nitrates? it is wholly unsatisfactory to have two directives addressing the same issue with different approaches and mechanisms and, for the hapless farming community, dual enforcement. either the nitrates directive should be repealed or compliance with one should remove the other from the equation. the combined effects of this directive and the water framework directive will make the nitrates directive wholly superfluous. under this directive there is a requirement to put in place trend reversal measures once pollution levels reach 75 per cent of the decreed quality standard. this is more demanding than the standards required under the nitrates directive in the nitrate-vulnerable zones. again, we have conflict, contradiction and dual standards. we need cogent, slimmed-down regulation, not costly duplication.
mr president, when mr dimas replies to the debate in a moment, i would like to ask him if he can specifically reply and give us the opinion of the commission on amendments 111, 112 and 94 and the amendments that the previous speaker has just mentioned about nitrates? it would be very interesting for all of us to have the opinion of the commission specifically on those. i would like to focus quickly on 111 and 112, the two amendments which the rapporteur appeared to endorse in her opening speech, which deal with the application of the universal standards through the groundwater directive. as she knows, this idea was rejected in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in favour of the framework approach of the commission on the basis of river-basin management. are those of us who oppose universal standards correct in saying that river-basin management or local management of the groundwater directive would mean that you do not need universal standards? many speakers have commented on how important it is to recognise that it would be crazy to try to implement universal standards. forty per cent of european groundwater is already well over the standard set in the florenz amendments. i am sorry that as rapporteur mrs klaß used her time as speaker to endorse amendments that she knew the committee had rejected. just a quick second point. the origin of the groundwater directive is really the impact of landfill sites on groundwater quality. can the commissioner reassure us that the commission really is following up the landfill directive? we are told that there are still thousands of illegal landfills in france, italy and other countries. if this is the case it makes nonsense of our trying to get better standards for groundwater when the origin of the trouble is still in place.
mr president, it is a great pleasure for me as the coordinator for my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to welcome my colleague mrs handzlik and her first report and my colleagues from poland and slovakia who spoke so eloquently. one of the reasons for drafting this report was the fact that the new member states are already teaching all of us a lot about how to deal with the internal market. by happy coincidence the committee on the internal market went on a mission to poland a few weeks ago. we went to mrs handzlik’s home town and we met the businesses in her chamber of commerce. there are businesses there, large and small, who are really frustrated about the way that some of the existing member states are still hampering their access to the european market. believe me, the new member states have a lot to teach us. if you look at the reports on the internal market you will find that in many cases the new member states are at the top of the list for transposing internal market directives. is it not extraordinary that after all this time it is the old member states that are lagging behind? that is why we wanted to draw up this report, because the new member states have so much to teach us. inevitably there has been discussion this morning about the services directive. as the shadow rapporteur i would like to say the biggest problem we face in europe at the moment is unemployment. since 1999 the majority of new jobs in europe have been created in the services business. we have to create an effective and functioning new market for services. we have to get a directive that works satisfactorily. we can deal with the problems that are being raised, but we have to do the job properly. on this side of the house we will lead the way in delivering an effective services directive and continuing the transformation of the european economy, with the new member states coming with us. (applause)
mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs handzlik on drawing up the first report by a new member from a new member state in a new committee. as the chairman of that committee, i think her report has been a commendable initiative. it is right to emphasise today what the new member states have achieved instead of to carp at the difficulties and challenges they might pose. in the old member states we see anxieties and sometimes a state of denial about what the expansion will mean to us. that is playing out now in some of the debates about the constitution. it is playing out in some of the rhetoric about the fear of what immigration from the new member states may do. my own view is that it is a task for this parliament to welcome the expansion of the european union in the fullest terms. recently, i have had the opportunity not only to go with the delegation to poland, but also to go to hungary in a business delegation with representatives of my own region. we have heard today in the voices of mrs handzlik, mrs pleštinská and mrs herczog precisely what their ambitions are and why they should be supported. the internal market needs to free up services in a manner consistent with empowering consumers as well as entrepreneurs and in a manner that combines social and economic goals. they cannot be separated out. i must say to our friends in the new member states that to believe that raw capitalism will give you all you need and will be your servant is an error. all these elements need to be in balance. i would say to those who came to my country, the united kingdom, from the new member states: you are welcome. i am proud to say in the middle of the british general election campaign that we are right to have given free entry into our market to people from the new member states. we will prosper, our capital accumulation will prosper, our culture will prosper, our cuisine will prosper! we welcome you, and i am delighted to be able to say that. i hope mr harbour will go back and tell the conservative party in britain that it should take that same welcoming view. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your comments and questions which i will pass on to my colleague, commissioner mccreevy. regarding the amendment tabled by mrs kallenbach on the proposed services directive, i would just like to say that we should not use this excellent report as a vehicle to intervene in the current work on the services proposal. this weekend we will be celebrating the first year of the european union of 25 member states. the adoption of this report is therefore very timely and it shows that there is good reason for optimism about the internal market. we note that there is still some work ahead of us. this will always be so but overall we see a very positive picture with the ten new member states performing well, and in a number of cases outperforming the others. the move from an internal market of 15 to an internal market of 25 is providing a new dynamic. we should use this dynamic to move ahead in removing barriers and create further opportunities for our companies and our citizens. i would again like to thank mrs handzlik for her excellent report.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place in a moment.
there is nobody here from the council to reply, mrs doyle, so we will forward your comments to the council. i am sure it will be able to reply in due course.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
perhaps it would help if i read the oral amendment. it simply adds the words ‘as well as russia to crack down on smuggling from the kaliningrad regions to lithuania and poland’. (parliament agreed to the oral amendment) before the vote on paragraph 13:
i am advised that if we approve general morillon’s oral amendment, it would remove the references to the baker plan from all amendments. is that correct, general morillon?
colleagues, i should like to ask the rapporteur for some advice on this.
mr wieland, i am not sure i understand the point you are making. would you mind repeating it? before the vote on amendment 43:
i shall now ask the rapporteur for a comment on that.
you must read them, otherwise they would not be oral amendments! (laughter)
that was my point, mr president. i agree with the rapporteur that the following text should be added to the end of paragraph 25: ‘further asks the commission to prioritise amendment or removal of any legislation that is detrimental to the smooth functioning of european financial markets’. that would replace paragraph 26, which should be deleted.
are there are any objections to mr purvis’ oral amendment?
mr president, i have an oral amendment to paragraph 38, which will also replace amendment 1: ‘considers that member states have long and diverse traditions in consumer protection; notes that the [one word deleted] call from part of the financial services industry is for minimum harmonisation, whereas certain practitioners, notably the banking industry, advocate targeted harmonisation in order to achieve a true level playing field; therefore, urges the commission to organise a discussion about the fundamental structure of the eu financial services market, bearing in mind consumer and practitioner interests and european global competitiveness;’.
thank you, mr schulz. i am not sure that your assumption is entirely correct.
in writing. while able to agree with much of this report, i felt compelled to abstain because of the amendments embracing abortion on demand and the blanket attack on capital punishment, which i regard as legitimate where there is a transparently fair legal system based on due process of law. i particularly welcomed the report’s forthright affirmations against terrorism – including the declaration that there is a prime duty on democratic governments to dismantle terrorist networks – its denunciation of the commission’s reversal of the embargo on arms sales to china and its identification of persecution in many countries throughout the world of citizens because of their christian beliefs, though i would have liked it to have been more explicit and focused, particularly with regard to the appalling abuse of the rights of members of minority protestant denominations in eritrea, vietnam, north korea, colombia, burma, indonesia, laos, egypt, china, sri lanka, pakistan and elsewhere. the persecutions and imprisonments imposed on good citizens, whose only ‘crime’ is to live according to their sincere beliefs, is intolerable. freedom of expression, assembly and religion must be defended throughout the world.
in writing. i would like to explain why we as a delegation have largely abstained on the coveney report. this report is very largely supported by us and we stand for the highest level of civil and political human rights throughout the world, good governance and democracy as the form of ideal government. nevertheless, our party has stated a policy position rejecting the international criminal court and therefore we cannot support amendment 45. we are examining the issue of resiling the un geneva convention on refugees in order to regain control of immigration and asylum policy and therefore cannot support amendment 35. similarly, we regard the death penalty for the most serious crimes and abortion as conscience issues and have no stated policies either way. in the light of these considerations we have abstained overall.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues completely and unreservedly condemn all forms of racism and xenophobia. however, we are unable to support this resolution because we do not think that the cause of a specific minority group such as the roma is furthered by ‘pigeon-holing’ them into a separate category, which runs the risk of increasing their isolation and marginalisation. instead, we feel it is best to keep the fight against discrimination and prejudice, which the roma undoubtedly face, within the mainstream of political, economic, and social policy.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 12.35 p.m.)
mr president, do not misunderstand me, i am not against people going on holiday; it is just that, normally, we have to pay for it ourselves. my simple request to all 25 commissioners was for them to declare what free holidays they had received since they became commissioners. they point blank refused to answer the question, treating this parliament with contempt. when it leaked out that mandelson and barroso had enjoyed holidays on billionaires’ yachts, we were told not to worry: there was no conflict whatsoever. then it emerges that one of the latsis-owned shipyards – the lamda shipyard – received a eur 10 million grant, and then mr barroso resigns the shipping portfolio. that resignation is too little, too late. it is about time parliament called the commission to account, and i urge members to vote to change the agenda to bring mr barroso here this very week. (applause)
mr president, i am sure everyone here today will be aware that last thursday there was a general election in britain. it was conducted under the first-past-the-post voting system, which is inherently unfair and is no longer defensible in the 21st century. it produced some strange results: the labour party that now forms the government won 55% of the seats based on only 35% of the vote. thirty-nine per cent of the electorate could not be bothered to vote. britain now has a government put in place by only 21% of the electorate. in 1999 the european union forced britain to adopt a form of proportional representation for the european parliamentary elections. since the european commission is now the real government of britain, perhaps it could do us a favour and force britain to adopt a form of proportional representation for parliamentary elections. under a fair voting system, the uk independence party could gain representation in the british parliament and use it eventually to bring about our desired goal: britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i also wish to welcome the partner and relatives of robert mccartney today. this weekend, i attended a vigil in london to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the death of brian douglas at the hands of the police. that is a fact, but no one has been prosecuted or held accountable for his death. brian’s family is not alone: there are many such cases in the uk where people have lost loved ones to such violent deaths, yet no one is punished or held to account publicly in a court of law. the families will tell you of their burning sense of injustice at this state of affairs and their anger that the killer of their loved one will continue to lead their own life, see their own children grow, spend time with friends and all of those things that they have robbed from their victim. robert mccartney will never see his children grow. we know that in many places witnesses have failed to come forward for one of two reasons: a misplaced sense of loyalty or fear of consequences. in the mccartney case we have both, set against a political backdrop that has further constricted the truth. such silence hands the rule of law to thugs and to those who can feel powerful only by creating a culture of fear. they fear the truth. the offer from the ira, as we have heard, to shoot the killers was an affront to justice and shows breathtaking arrogance. the ira is not the law! in northern ireland, whatever the past, the ballot box now holds sway and the rule of law goes with that. there can be no argument for paramilitary justice for any sector of the community and my group believes there never has been. so the death holds a symbolism for the future: an opportunity to break with the past. that is why my group has decided to support the spirit of the resolution, despite some of the wording and difficulties concerning the possible financial contribution from the union, which is why we have asked for a separate vote on that issue. however, the case offers an opportunity to break free from a culture of secrecy and fear and to bring the killers to account. it is time to break that stranglehold of the past and to create a rule of law that applies to all people in all communities.
mr president, right at the outset i salute the superb courage of the mccartney family. intimidation and the capacity to impose its will through fear has always been as vital a weapon to the ira as its guns and its bombs. in exposing and standing up to the thuggery of sinn féin/ira, the mccartney sisters have shown remarkable bravery. this was a foul murder. by a hand-signal indicating a knife should be used, a member of the ira’s northern command gave the order to kill, and a key sinn féin member savagely wielded the knife and butchered this innocent man before multiple witnesses. an ira unit, led by the volunteer who had fetched and then disposed of the knife, then coordinated a clean-up operation to destroy forensic and real evidence, including the cctv footage. then, in classic ira style, the intimidation brigade swung into action to silence the witnesses. though the ira and sinn féin claim to have expelled or suspended up to ten members linked to this murder, their duplicity and double-dealing is amply illustrated by the fact that, three months after this murder, this cut-throat psychopath remained publicly proclaimed as one of sinn féin’s official treasurers. and the man who ordered the killing still struts the streets of belfast in the company of the ira’s chief of intelligence, bobby storey, and leading provisional ira man, eddy copeland. so much for the ira’s supposed disciplinary action: it is a farce. we are due to hear in this debate from one of sinn féin/ira’s representatives in this house. she and her partners are in a position to help this family by influencing sinn féin members, like bob fitzsimmons and joe fitzpatrick, and other people like terry davison, truthfully to tell the lawful authorities what they know of the horrific events in the alleyway. i challenge her to do so, but instead i fear we will hear the usual sinn féin empty, pious, weasel words that reek of insincerity, with hypocrisy dripping from every syllable. sinn féin/ira could secure justice for the mccartney family but their priority is to protect their own. hence the ira-enforced wall of silence. punitive and deterrent justice through the criminal courts is much the best option. if sinn féin/ira succeed in denying criminal justice to this family, then i endorse the call that the eu should help fund an action so that the killers and conspirators can be pursued at least through the civil courts. but, given that the ira has benefited to the tune of eur 40 million from its northern bank robbery, it would be an odious scandal if state legal aid were available to anyone to defend such proceedings. finally, i would add that the eu fund should also be available to the many other victims of the ira, who for years have been denied justice because of this same intimidation.
mr president, i wish to begin by adding my words of welcome to the mccartney family here this evening in our house, and pay tribute to their courage, strength and determination in what they have achieved and in what they have tried to do. i welcome the opportunity to have this debate. i wish to give my wholehearted support to the mccartney family in their quest for justice for their brother robert. the events that led to robert mccartney’s murder show clearly the collusion that occurred. that night, not only was a murder committed, but also the bar was systematically wiped clean of evidence. this all happened in front of witnesses who seem to have seen nothing. the truth is that they are being intimidated and are afraid to come forward: such is the hold of the provisional ira on the people in this area. i would urge those who have information to come forward and give that information to the police service of northern ireland and put it on record, and finally bring an end to this. the provisional ira has instilled fear into people. unfortunately, we seem to be no closer to resolving this murder. the great danger now is that the further we get away from the terrible events of 30 january, the more likely that this – like so many other murders of innocent people in northern ireland over the last 35 years – will go unsolved and will be forgotten about. that is something i would not want to happen. i ask parliament and the commission to give every support to this joint resolution. i would like this house to reject what i consider to be a disgraceful resolution by the gue/ngl group. if mr markov had lived in northern ireland he would not have come out with the rubbish he spoke tonight to try to justify the cause of provisional ira/sinn féin, who are sitting behind him. it is a well-known fact that the provisional ira and sinn féin are inextricably linked. i do not want to see the continued stonewalling against all appeals to bring those responsible for this evil deed to justice. we cannot condone such terror or intimidation in any part of the european union. i do not want to see it in any part of any society in which i would want to live, in northern ireland in the future. we have suffered enough for far too long and we want a better life for everyone.
mr president, this parliament has a very good record as a strong supporter of the peace process in northern ireland and, indeed, we were strong backers of the peace fund for northern ireland. it is therefore natural that we are concerned that the peace process has been running into difficulty, and the mccartney murder highlights one of the reasons for these difficulties. it is often the case that so-called ‘freedom struggles’ come to be used by criminal elements who use a political cause as a cover for their activities. the mccartney murder has shown that this is happening in northern ireland. as we have heard, we have the motiveless murder of an innocent man. that murder has been met by a wall of silence and intimidation little different from that imposed by the mafia elsewhere. as peace becomes more possible, the more the criminals – the drug runners, the bullies, the extortionists – feel threatened. frankly, we have reached a crucial point in the peace process. it will not work unless we can break the hold of the gangsters. people have to come to realise that the so-called liberators have become their jailers. this is not a phenomenon restricted purely to the nationalist side. it is also a phenomenon of which we are aware on the unionist side. but the issue we are debating today is the murder of robert mccartney, and we need to keep that issue in the public eye. that is why sinn féin, in particular, has to break the wall of silence so that it can set its community free. that is why we would support the use of the budget line for aid to the victims of terrorism in order to provide finance for any civil action taken by the family – money, i hasten to add, not directly for the family but money for a court action. we have to remember that for evil to thrive it only takes good men and women to remain silent. the results of the general election in northern ireland last week show that there has been a move in support of those who are opposed to the good friday agreement. time is running out for the peace process and that is why we need to maintain our pressure on those responsible for the murder and cover-up because, unless we resolve this issue, the peace process will fail completely.
(the speaker first spoke in irish)mr president, sinn féin supports the mccartney family’s demand for those responsible for robert’s murder to face trial and will continue to do all that it can to help them. i welcome them here today. our party has met with the mccartney family a number of times. i met them a few weeks ago when they visited parliament in brussels. i have pledged them my support and the support of our party. sinn féin president gerry adams has called on those responsible to come forward and admit their responsibility for this horrendous murder. they have refused. he has also called on everyone who was in the vicinity of magennis’s bar to provide full and frank statements. because we take this matter so seriously, eleven members of our party who were in the bar on that night and one who arrived on the scene later were suspended without prejudice. this has been done to establish whether they complied with the call by party leaders for everyone to provide a full and frank statement. two members were expelled for refusing to follow this instruction; four others resigned; the other six remain suspended pending a report to our party’s national executive. (the speaker spoke in irish)as a sinn féin mep and as an individual, i could not campaign for the victims of british or unionist paramilitary thuggery if i was not as clear and as committed to justice for the mccartney family. those responsible for the brutal killing of robert mccartney should admit to what they did in a court of law. that is the only decent thing for them to do. others who have any information should come forward. it is our belief that the psni - the police service of northern ireland - could and should have acted by now. it has not carried out a thorough investigation.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to inform you that i shall report back to president barroso about this discussion – president barroso had the pleasure of meeting members of the mccartney family about a month ago – and i shall also inform vice-president frattini about the request for the possibility of funding to cover the judicial procedures expenses. the commission fully supports the peace and reconciliation process in the region, not least through the peace programme, which quite a few members mentioned, which is worth around eur 760 million for the period 2000-2006. this includes funding for programmes in the mccartney sisters’ neighbourhood, such as an after-school club, a youth victim support programme and a community economic regeneration programme. once again, i would like to express my deep admiration for these brave people: the mccartney family.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0102/2005) from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning the management of bathing water quality and repealing directive 76/160/eec (rapporteur: jules maaten) (12884/1/2004 - c6-0006/2005 - 2002/0254(cod)).
mr president, this is a very useful and important revision of the 1976 directive. we should remember that it does mean real improvements in water quality within the ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ categories now proposed. it will enable the bathing water directive to be better focused, with clearer and more demanding rules, and i underline that it is ambitious. the implementation of the 1976 directive has taken 30 years at least and cost a lot of money. i represent the south-west of england, where we have spent more than gbp 1 billion – i am sorry i am not speaking in euros – in clearing up the bathing beaches around the coast of that region of england alone. that has meant a 15% year-on-year increase in water rates and i do not think people will be prepared to pay a lot more for a much more demanding directive. there are obviously two problems. unlike mr blokland, i am in favour of keeping the category of ‘sufficient’. i know that some want to delete it, but it seems to me that given that the new ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ standards are much tougher, and that even with investment some beaches may fail, especially after rain, we need the ‘sufficient’ category as a sort of probationary category. i would like to hear what the commissioner thinks of amendment 36. does he think it is an efficient way of dealing with this issue and can he forecast the council’s likely attitude to it? finally, on the question of recreational waters: i think that all the recreational water amendments are rather silly, because the definition is too wide to be meaningful. if you set out from cornwall and try to get to florida in a canoe, you are turning the entire atlantic into recreational water and i do not think that is worth it. i have seen no estimates of cost from any of the greens who tabled these amendments: i do not think any exist. there is also the question of practicality. i highlight the fact that the british canoe union is begging us not to support the extension of this directive to recreational waters. i note that the british organisation surfers against sewage says: ‘the impact of the directive will be felt particularly at the canoe union’s national watersports centre, where poor water quality is routinely thought to put young people at risk’. the british canoe union says: ‘significantly, the health risk to canoeists in the water in the uk is very low and on this basis we query the justification to include recreational waters and activities in the directive’. i wish this directive well. i remember the 1976 one when it first came forward. this is a great improvement and we should remember that.
mr president, scotland has found it very difficult to meet even the 1976 bathing water directive. the main problem for us is agriculture and the run-off because of high rainfall, especially on the west coast. rainfall in these parts, which face the atlantic and the prevailing weather, can be anything from 80 to over 100 inches – i.e. 250 cm – a year. the land use on the west coast is predominantly livestock: sheep and cattle and wild deer. so, every time there is a heavy rainfall, some faecal material will be washed down from the moors and onto the beaches. this is not unnatural, it has happened for centuries, and the next tide will quickly clean things up. even so, the scottish executive, the local authorities and scottish water have spent huge sums of money trying to minimise these occurrences, keeping livestock out of the water courses and installing simple treatment systems that are designed to stem the natural flow. however, it is impossible to stop it completely. scotland has miles and miles of splendid beaches. scotland has much of europe’s finest and wildest landscapes. scotland has several of the world’s best-known breeds of cattle and sheep. scotland sometimes even has beautiful weather, when tourists and local people flock to our beaches. it would be perverse and severely damaging if parliament, led by the green brigade - who, sadly, know so little of the real world - were to remove the ‘sufficient’ classification in this new directive and condemn scotland’s beaches to the loss of their coveted and deserved status among the best and most beautiful in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission can accept a range of amendments concerning the provision of information to the general public, both at bathing sites and over the internet. the commission is also very happy to accept the idea of developing common symbols and signs to be displayed at bathing sites. however, it is necessary to be clear as to what exactly the signs and symbols are supposed to indicate. several amendments seek to reintroduce provisions concerning emergency plans. the commission considers that, in this respect, the common position is an improvement on its original proposal. as the text already deals with pollution resulting from unusual or exceptional events, it is not appropriate to introduce detailed provisions on emergency planning in relation to bathing. as to the issue of classification, the commission wishes to maintain the ‘sufficient’ category with the aim of reaching an agreement that would allow the european union to adopt a better framework for bathing waters than the present one. the commission cannot accept the deletion of this category. however, the commission welcomes the spirit of compromise behind amendments 36 and 55. amendment 36 provides that this classification category would exist only for eight years after the entry into force of this directive. as this would only take us to 2013, which is before the date on which the common position proposes that the quality standards would come into effect, the commission does not regard this amendment as realistic. with regard to amendment 55, the commission considers that increasing the severity of the quality standards associated with the ‘sufficient’ classification category would represent a potentially fruitful option in which to pursue a compromise. therefore, while the quality standards for the sufficient category are far too stringent, the commission could accept the principle of the amendment. with regard to the distinction between coastal waters and fresh waters, the commission cannot accept the amendments that remove this distinction, nor those amendments directed at bringing forward the dates when the new quality standards become effective. finally, the commission notes the attention parliament attaches to the issue of dealing with other recreational uses of waters such as surfing and sailing. the commission does not believe that it is feasible to extend the scope of the directive to include these issues today. however, the direction suggested by amendment 35, whereby the commission commits to conducting a study on this issue and reporting by 2018, is acceptable. in conclusion, the commission can accept ten amendments in their entirety, and three amendments in part or in principle. however, 21 amendments are unacceptable to the commission. i shall give a complete list of the commission’s position on the amendments to parliament’s secretariat see annex – position of the commission. the european union ensures minimum standards. member states can go further and faster, and competition between tourist locations will push things in this direction. my final remark: the member states are responsible for designating bathing sites. the walloon case to which mrs ries referred involved a site identified by belgium as a bathing site. that is why we and the court insisted on the site respecting the 1976 directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday. annex - position of the commission recommendation for second reading: maaten (a6-0102/2005) the commission can accept the following amendments in their entirety: 2, 9, 10, 13, 17, 19, 21, 25, 26, 33 and 35. the following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 15, 16, 22 and 55. the following amendments are not acceptable: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14, 18, 20, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53 and 54.
the next item is the oral question (b6-0237/05) by karl-heinz florenz to the commission, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission’s strategy for the second meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would add my voice of congratulation to our rapporteur and, indeed, to the commission on an ambitious report and package. i would stress the importance of such ambition from the european level for the european film industry. by way of example of how not to do it and why we need this package, look at scotland. we have a high-quality film infrastructure, talented technicians and actors and stunning locations, yet we are not known for our film industry. with good reason: our government does not adequately support it. a film about mary, queen of scots, is about to be made in ireland; a new film version of macbeth - the scottish play - will be shot on the isle of man. government support for film is crucial in the global market of the film industry. this report demonstrates why we need a european framework that is ambitious and has a soul to it that we can push forward from a european dimension. i congratulate the rapporteur and i shall be giving a copy of the report to the scottish government.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, i would like to make a statement on the negotiations between the european union and mercosur. despite progress in recent years, these negotiations have been stagnant since october 2004. at that time it was considered that the offers from both sides did not allow us to achieve the high level of ambition we want for this agreement. at the lisbon ministerial meeting in october, ministers decided to take time to reflect on how to re-engage the process. in january 2005, presidents barroso and lulla da silva met in davos, where they discussed the future of the eu. the two presidents stressed the strategic importance they attached to an association agreement between the european union and mercosur. it should be remembered that the negotiations began with an ambitious, strategic objective: to build a strong alliance between the two blocs, which have much in common, including parallel visions of the international order. the two presidents agreed that if negotiations on trade were to move forward, they should be based on the best offers exchanged by the two partners at that date. the idea of relaunching negotiations on the basis of the best offers was widely taken up and supported by all eu and mercosur negotiators at the eu-mercosur business forum in february. a technical meeting was held on 21 and 22 march to prepare for the ministerial meeting to relaunch the negotiations. at this meeting, mercosur refused to confirm the best offers exchanged. he argued that they would be too favourable to the european union and that their confirmation would deepen this alleged imbalance. our objective is to convince mercosur to move the negotiations forward quickly. this is essential because some mercosur partners may be tempted to focus exclusively on wto negotiations and then finalize a bi-regional agreement. at this point i would like to make it clear that we do not share the view of mercosur that the offers on the table are too favourable to the european union. firstly, as far as market access is concerned, the union's offer is the most generous ever offered in terms of product coverage and tariff dismantling timetable. the union's offer on agricultural products in particular is the largest ever made in bilateral agreements. secondly, as regards the rules, mercosur refused to submit a bid in public procurement, to include a chapter on intellectual property rights; it has rejected the principle of adequate protection of geographical indications of the european union. mercosur's services offer does not even consolidate the current level of liberalization. we believe, however, that only a ministerial meeting would allow the dialogue to resume. preparations for this meeting are under way. we are in close contact with our mercosur partners to this end. our effort is mainly about the state of technical preparations and the level of mercosur's commitment to a substantive discussion, as our ambition at this stage is to avoid a downward spiral and a reversal of the progress already made. on several occasions our partners, including mr amorin, the brazilian foreign minister, have publicly reiterated that mercosur is seeking to keep all options open, including bi-regional negotiations with the european union and the free trade agreement of the americas, while placing negotiations within the wto at the top of these priorities. consequently, our objective is to seek to preserve a channel of communication until our partners have a sufficiently clear view of the potential outcome of the wto negotiations. the commission remains committed to putting these negotiations back on track towards an ambitious, balanced agreement. to this end, we hope to have a service meeting before the end of july.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– it gives me great pleasure to speak on behalf of my group, and i pay especial tribute to the work of my colleague, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, who is unable to be present tonight, and who is a renowned expert on eu-latin america trade and political relations. at times, it is very difficult for someone such as myself, interested in global trade patterns, to monitor the number of different bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations going on all the time outside the framework of the doha round of the wto – which, i hope, will ultimately make such biregional deals redundant in the future. currently, in latin america the eu has successful free-trade agreements with chile, in the shape of an association agreement – which also enables additional close political cooperation and key human rights and democracy commitments by both parties – but also a similar agreement with mexico. however, being itself from inception a regional customs union, it makes sense for the eu, wherever possible, to negotiate with other multilateral customs unions elsewhere in the world and to draw up regional free-trade agreements in preference to a whole series of bilateral agreements. one such major bloc is mercosur, consisting of four latin american countries – brazil, argentina, uruguay and paraguay – with chile and bolivia having associative status. mercosur’s fortunes have waxed and waned in recent years over the imbalances in trade between argentina and brazil in particular – a matter constantly under criticism from argentina, which last september proposed to brazil a safeguard clause to which brazil refuses to agree. mercosur has traditionally been designed to deal in trade between the large industrial conglomerates, not the smes in the region, which feel disadvantaged by this deal. argentina also objects to the confusion over the brazilian initiative last december to create a south american community of nations, which was important recently in supporting brazil’s role in stabilising ecuador, as argentina believes that mercosur needs to be reinforced before that happens. there is also the tricky issue of the desire of portuguese-speaking brazil to have a seat on the un security council to enhance its regional superpower political ambitions. argentina instead suggests the seat could rotate to give room for all the south american countries, mainly spanish-speaking, to express their opinions. last year, mercosur had problems negotiating a deal with the eu – particularly because, mercosur alleged, pascal lamy, the then commissioner, came from france, which is amongst the most protectionist of countries in terms of agriculture – chiefly regarding mercosur’s desire to gain access for its agricultural products, which our eu farming sector finds threatening. brazil is a huge soya bean producer and argentina a producer of wheat and beef, as well as of fresh fruits, etc. in turn, mercosur is unhappy about giving tariff-free access to eu industrial goods, as brazil, in particular, is highly developed in the heavy industry sector. curiously, mercosur is simultaneously negotiating with countries like south korea and with other multilateral blocs, like the proposed agreement this week with the gulf cooperation council, as the leaders of latin america are meeting tomorrow in brasilia with the heads of government of the arab league. there can be no doubt that president lula da silva of brazil and president kirchner of argentina are still jostling for power to see who is perceived as the principal interlocutor with the united states of america ahead of president bush’s visit. mercosur appears still to hope that the free trade area of the americas will come to pass even though the usa has little appetite for it, preferring instead advantageous bilateral deals with individual latin american republics, as it already has a very successful and cosy set-up in nafta with mexico and canada. as i have outlined, the situation is complex, and i disagree with the recent allegations from mr d’alema on the other side of the house, who accuses commissioner mandelson, who i believe will be the main player in the negotiations, of lack of interest in the region or in securing a deal. i look forward to hearing how commissioner mandelson will bring this project forward after the breakdown last october, as it would appear to me there is no real political will on mercosur’s side. i would be interested to have a fuller explanation from the commissioner on how we could bring them back to the negotiating table.
the commission's vice-president mr president, my first word is a word of thanks to your rapporteur who has really done an excellent job. the recent news, with its waves of terrorist attacks, has shown that no country, no sector of activity is immune to such threats. whatever their motives, such acts of terrorism can occur anywhere and at any time. the maritime world and the port environment are not immune to such a threat and we cannot wait for an attack to take essentially preventive measures in the framework of transport policy. the main objective of this proposal for a directive is to supplement, at port level, the measures adopted in 2004 for port terminals only, under the regulation on the safety of ships and port facilities. you will recall that this regulation transposes at community level the security measures adopted by the international maritime organisation in december 2002, in particular the isps code on the security of ships and port facilities. the commission had then chosen to extend the security measures to the whole port area only at a later stage and by means of a directive. our final objective is to get out of this almost artificial separation between the port and the port facilities that make it up, and to put in place a coherent security system that takes account of the geography and topography of the different ports and the various areas that make them up, on a case-by-case basis, depending on how the member states implement it. this is an approach which we consider to be cost-effective in terms of efficiency and cost. i would stress that our proposal is based largely on the results of joint work by the international labour organisation and the international maritime organisation, which resulted in the publication of a code of conduct for port safety. however, this code of conduct is not binding. the commission proposal therefore uses the same security structures and bodies as the regulation already in force to create a security regime applicable to all maritime transport, from the ship to the boundary of the port area. this approach allows for simplification of procedures and synergies in terms of safety. the proposed directive calls on member states to define the boundaries of their ports and to ensure that port security assessments and port security plans are adequately developed according to minimum requirements. the proposal before you also provides for the designation of a port security authority for each port or group of ports, the appointment of a port security officer, the designation of correspondents in the member states to ensure the necessary communication with the other member states and, of course, with the commission. finally, it establishes a community control process for the implementation of port security measures. i would like to conclude, mr president, by emphasizing in particular that some of our major trading partners have already made a thorough reading of the isps code of the international maritime organization. these third countries apply security measures to all their ports and naturally expect us to do the same. they're prepared to come and check it out if we don't move faster in that direction. i believe that the european union cannot be left behind in this area, both for commercial reasons and, of course, for the protection of our fellow citizens and vital infrastructure such as our ports. i should add that when i went to the united states a month ago, i had the opportunity to see mr jackson, the head of the department of homeland security. in all honesty, we've really started a trusting cooperation. however, all this also implies that the europeans are willing to make the necessary efforts to ensure this high level of security throughout the port facilities. i would therefore like to thank your rapporteur and all those who have dealt with this text. i am particularly grateful to you for giving this matter the importance it deserves and i hope, mr president, mr minister, that we can reach a swift agreement on this matter.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– madam president, i rise to speak on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. first of all i would like to express our broad support for this proposal and in particular welcome the flexibility contained therein, so far as member states and their implementation is concerned. security and counter-terrorism measures are very much a feature of the age in which we live and are very important issues, so it is all the more welcome that the commissioner has taken an initiative in this matter. however, my committee had some concerns about the lack of a proper cost benefit analysis, or an adequate impact assessment of the costs arising from this directive. we also had concern about the absence in the proposal of any specific reference to funding or financing measures. it is all very well for us to come forward with proposals, but we should have regard as to how such proposals are to be financed. therefore, we tabled an amendment, which draws attention to these aspects of the proposal and calls for them to be borne in mind by the member states when they draw up the guidelines for action. we would not wish all the burden of the cost of this measure to fall on operators or shippers in the private sector, but would seek a fair and equitable sharing of the burdens and costs involved.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating mrs hennis-plasschaert on doing a very fine job in drafting this report. the fact that we are, i hope, bringing this matter to a speedy conclusion is testimony to her hard work. we all know the threat from terrorism over the last few years has increased considerably. the house has rightly debated these issues many times recently. my original concerns were that the commission’s proposals were too vague, would go too far and that the considerable costs of implementing and enforcing this directive could be pushed down the supply chain, leading to increased costs to industry and the consumer. i agree very much with mr chichester’s comments on the cost-benefit analysis. through the hard work of the rapporteur, such vague phrases as ‘unlawful acts’ – which could mean anything, such as dropping litter in a port area which poses no real threat to security – have been amended to read ‘security incidents’. this tightens the meaning of the phrasing and ensures that the directive can be better targeted at real threats. port areas have been better defined to limit the costs imposed on the supply chain outside the geographic area of the port. importantly, the principle of subsidiarity has been promoted in terms of defining the port-related areas to which the directive will apply. however, security is not just about money and, indeed, cannot have a price put upon it. the hard work of the rapporteur has meant that the potentially unnecessary bureaucracy has been addressed. i am pleased to say that we have a report that i fully support and i would ask the house to give it its full backing in the vote later today.
on behalf of the pse group.– madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur and all who have helped him in this work. there are two crucial points in the report: they are the twin proposals to phase out the opt-out, while opening a way to the annual calculation of working time. in that way we will maintain workers' safety while continuing to allow businesses the flexibility they need to thrive in the modern marketplace. an opt-out from a piece of health and safety legislation is wrong in principle. it needs to end and we need to bring about a proper balance between working and family life. our leaders pledged to make the european union the most dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world, with more and better quality jobs and greater social cohesion. we will not achieve that by opening the door to a universal opt-out. that would be the path to a long-hours, low-pay economy, which is the exact opposite to what we are trying to achieve. if we do not end the opt-out, we should simply repeal the legislation and stop pretending that we want to put in place any sensible minimum standards at all on working time. i would stress this: people have told me that this has nothing to do with work/life/family balance. it has. in 1996 the european court of justice ruled that this is a health and safety directive and that health and safety is about the total social, psychological and physical wellbeing of individuals. family and working life balance has to do with the social and psychological wellbeing of all workers within the european union. so let us nail that particular argument.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, we too would like to thank the rapporteur and others for the work that has been done on this revision of the working time directive. for our group, this is an extremely important piece of legislation. the limitation of working time has been an historic struggle for the labour movement and we should not be giving that away in the 21st century. but according to a recent report from the work foundation, based in the uk, the pattern of working in excess of 60 hours a week is prevalent now throughout the european union, particularly in certain sectors. i think this is something that we should not be welcoming but should actually be very worried about. for the verts/ale group, the control of working time is also about who controls your life, and this working time directive applies to employees. it is very important that people realise that. this is not just about having flexibility as a one-way street, but of bringing in the rights of employees. it is a health and safety issue. tired workers are dangerous workers, whether they are operating on you or driving home. it is also a social health issue, in terms of a work/life balance, if we want our citizens to be active citizens involved in a whole set of other things. you cannot do that if you are working the entire time. but the opt-out is a big issue for us. we will be told that this is about workers having a choice. a lot of the evidence shows that it is not a choice. it is something that is put in front of workers who are asked to sign away their rights to avoid employers having to negotiate or do paper work. indeed, we find that in the uk two thirds of workers do not even know there is a limit to their working time. for us the issue of on-call time as working time is also important, whether you are working in a burger bar or a hospital, and the compensatory rest element is also crucial, given that stress is one of the biggest causes of time off work and that is linked to working time.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– madam president, the working time directive is to provide a better deal for workers and improve family life; but will it? the best deal a worker can get is to have a job, and this directive will not improve employment or social life. i understand that the central objective of the eu is for each member state to bring to the table its experience and skills, its best practice and ideas, share with the rest and strengthen all. so, allow this uk representative to bring to the table today some uk experience and practice: that less regulation equals more employment. even mr špidla agreed with me on that to some degree a short while ago. denmark and sweden apart, the united kingdom has the lowest unemployment rate in the whole eu, way below the average eu rate. these countries have not taken the euro and the uk has not indulged in the more restrictive employment practices. the 48-hour week, rigidly enforced, will cause small firms to close or drive people into the black economy, where they are outside of all protection and where they will become avoiders of income tax and vat. flexibility can be provided by the opt-outs from the working week, which are due to be phased out in spite of a vote in this house on 24 february. organisations like the united kingdom government, the chambers of commerce, eurocommerce and sky tv all want the opt outs to continue, but these bodies do not work in the pseudo-eu world of fancy plans and dead-hand regulation – they work in the real world of profit margins and of full employment as produced by the 48-hour opt out.
madam president, i will confine my remarks purely to the issue of the opt-out. the rapporteur said that the opt-out violates the fundamental principles of the treaty. that is simply not true. the commission is the guardian of the treaties; the commission proposed 10 years ago that the opt-out should exist. in the review now, 10 years on, the commission is still proposing that the opt-out should continue to exist. mr hughes said that the issue is about work/life balance. the rapporteur asserts that people are asking how europe improves their living conditions. i do not believe that people are asking that. people are asking themselves how they can improve their living conditions for themselves. at the moment, the decision of many millions of them is to use the opt-out. the issue before us today is: who decides? should it be a small group of out-of-touch politicians dictating what makes a better quality of life for the people, or should it be the millions of workers themselves, who currently enjoy the right to choose and who want to continue to decide for themselves? many of the new member states want to make use of the opt-out. all the social partners except the etuc want to keep the opt-out. small business organisations across the eu have contacted me, pleading that the opt-out be kept. my good friend mr silva peneda says that this report proposes more flexibility and is good for smes. smes themselves fundamentally disagree, and they should know. the issue is: who should decide? i believe that it should not be for us in this parliament to decide and to dictate excessive and rigid restrictions on how people choose to spend their lives. people want more freedom and more flexibility. we should give that to them and vote against this report.
madam president, for many liberal democrats the opt-out represents an important principle of subsidiarity. we support measures that protect individuals from exploitation at work. we are not convinced that it is for the european union to be the body that imposes unwanted restrictions, that have nothing to do with health and safety, on individuals in every member state. we strongly disagree with mr hughes, of the british labour party, that the european union should lay down the law with regard to the work/life/family balance of people everywhere. it is not surprising that we have to counter so much euro-scepticism in britain when senior members of this parliament call for the eu to be allowed to interfere in the lives of individuals to such an extent. we have a european single market, but that does not overrule the fact that member states compete against one another. if the people of one country want greater social protection at the risk of damaging their competitive position, then they should vote for a government that will do that. in many cases the liberal democrats will support them. but blanket controls imposed on every country by brussels will limit the freedom of member states to decide the approach most appropriate for them. it is excessive and wrong. it is also condescending for this parliament to seek to impose restrictions on others, while excluding executives, meps and commissioners. speaking for myself, i have never worked less than a 48-hour week and i do not intend to start doing so. applying these restrictions rigidly to workers in the tourist industry and the agricultural sector, with their extreme seasonal fluctuations, will simply drive people into the black economy. that is no way to promote the lisbon agenda. for practical reasons and for reasons of principle, the right to opt out should remain.
madam president, members of this parliament were asked to vote here at 11.30 a.m. it is not their fault that their time has been wasted: it is that of the presidency. it is not your fault, you are not responsible for every detail, but when is the presidency going to start timetabling debates properly?
rapporteur.– mr president, this report was not controversial in committee: it was accepted unanimously and without amendment. therefore, you may wonder why i seek to comment on it now. that fact should not be allowed to obscure what was a very comprehensive piece of work by the commission, making sense of a 25-year-old document that had undergone multiple revisions. it has been recast into a document of some 300 articles, which is now comprehensible and which can, therefore, be better implemented. nothing in this requires any change of legislation in any member state. however, it makes sure that all the accession treaty additions etc. are incorporated into one document, which is useful. as an individual who has frequently been critical of the european commission, it is reasonable on this occasion to record our gratitude and to compliment the commission officials who have undertaken this task and done it extremely well. (applause)
in writing. i welcome this report and strongly wish to see further improvements in the quality of bathing water and fully recognise the need to update the existing directive whish is now almost 30 years old. i have two concerns. i do not wish to see the "sufficient" category deleted as this would lead to some beaches in this category being labelled "poor". this would lead the public to this conditions had deteriorated when in fact no change had taken place.
in writing. labour meps want to see further improvements in the quality of bathing water and welcomes the opportunity to update the bathing water directive almost 30 years after the existing directive came into force. however, they did not support amendments in two key areas. firstly, on the deletion of the sufficient standard, labour meps cannot support this because it would mean that bathing waters which meet current standards, would suddenly be classified as "poor" (the sufficient standard being proposed is twice as strict for coastal areas as the current minimum standard). this would be confusing for the public. it is much better to have a phased approach to improving standards. secondly on the extension of the scope of the directive to include recreational waters: labour meps cannot support moves to extend the scope of the directive to recreational waters. such an extension is uncosted and impracticable - recreational sports are carried out throughout the year rather than in a bathing season and the number of monitoring points would be huge.
in writing. i reject the need for eu legislation in this field since it should be the responsibility of the individual member states to decide how best to ensure port security. in addition an imo code of conduct covering the issue already exists. the eu argues that the imo code of conduct is not legally binding and a proposed eu directive has ensued, which i have voted against. amendments 5, 6, 7, 30 and 45 attempted to mitigate the impact of this directive, permitting member states more authority over proposed measures and i would have voted for these had they not been included in a block vote, the remainder of which was impossible to support.
in writing. i welcome this vote to give support to the sisters of robert mccartney in their fight to bring to justice his killers. their courage gives real hope for change and reconciliation in northern ireland.
in writing. we in ukip strongly support the brave stand taken by the mccartney family to gain justice after the murder of their brother, robert. however, we cannot support the use of eu money in a civil court case in northern ireland.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, whilst the world has focused on weapons of mass destruction, it is right that we look today at the 650 million small arms and light weapons in circulation worldwide. almost one person every minute is killed by the bullet from a gun and two million children have been killed in the last decade. these arms escalate and provoke prolonged conflicts. they facilitate violent crime and they are used for terrorism. it is in europe’s interest to limit small arms for our own security, to protect foreign investment and to promote development. that means integrating small arms into europe’s security development and governance programmes. it is not simply a question of supporting ad hoc disarmament, demobilisation and reconstruction programmes as part of our crisis management response, we have to mainstream this into broader development assistance programmes and include it in our political dialogue with all other countries and regions worldwide. as a follow-up to the eu security strategy, it means developing a comprehensive eu disarmament and arms control strategy. this should integrate with civil society initiatives, just as ngos should be able to contribute actively to the un biannual meeting of states in july. it means, as we say in the resolution, new impetus for the un consultations on combating illicit brokering. here in the eu, our member states have only to consider applying these controls to our citizens operating outside of the european union. yet these brokers deliberately travel overseas to ply their trade. i would have liked, this afternoon, to have heard a commitment from the luxembourg presidency to strengthen the common position to make it mandatory to control eu nationals involved in arms brokering, wherever they are based. finally, it means limiting the supply of arms overall. action by the eu to control the proliferation of small arms in fragile states is undermined by our role as major arms exporters. good as the eu code of conduct is, strengthened as it must be, german armaments used in burma arrive there only because they were exported via ukraine, which is not bound by our eu rules. it shows why regional agreements alone are not enough. that is why i welcome the commitment from my own government in the united kingdom and from the finnish government, as well as the recommendation of the high level panel of the united nations to champion an international arms trade treaty. arms transfers must be subject to legal controls, not just in the eu, but across the world.
president of the council. mr president, i shall mention two proposals from your parliament which i will pass on to the council, and which i think the commissioner has also taken note of: firstly, the strengthening of control mechanisms within the european union itself to better trace the movement of arms, since this information makes it possible to discover, show and know the export channels of this type of arms. which exist and develop; then there was the idea of an international treaty. there are indeed a number of large exporters of small arms to all parts of the world and these exporters are not necessarily from eu member states. the only way to effectively control this kind of export, which is the underlying cause of the regional conflicts to which several speakers have referred, is to have much stronger international commitments and also a more robust and effective control system. the european union must, in my view, take the initiative in such a treaty and support the efforts of the secretary-general in this regard, since we want to play a role in this. as someone has said - and commissioner michel knows this well - we want to carry out a peace mission, particularly in parts of africa, and peace only has a chance if we succeed in breaking the supply chains for these types of weapons, which are often the weapons of developing countries, the weapons of the poor. as i said, they often arm the arms of child soldiers, which is one of the most horrible things you can encounter.
mr president, i think that has been repeated a great deal. it is clear that the fight against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons is a priority objective of the european union. it is equally clear that this must be a priority objective for our states. the european code of conduct is particularly regrettable in that it is not binding. it is not the case in all countries and, having experienced it myself, i can assure you that it is enough for one country to refuse an export licence for other european countries to immediately apply to honour the order which has not been placed. i think we should be very clear about this. in my country, for example, the law now provides for this, and normally there is an obligation, but it is obvious that it should be generalized. i would add that even if we had a coercive code, that does not mean that competitors outside the european union would respect it. that said, i am of course the first to want to make this code binding. there are three considerations i would like to share with you. firstly, traceability is a very important element, which is to be able to trace the entire weapon circuit. and i would also like to draw your attention to a new perspective that may be interesting. research is now being done in europe not only to ensure the traceability of the weapon but even to render the weapon inoperable from a distance. research in this area is already very advanced and i believe that this type of initiative should be supported. i would also like to mention a number of projects and actions which are being carried out by several of our member states. so some of them offer to the populations who have weapons and who accept to hand them over to them to exchange these weapons for bicycles. i can tell you that in africa, this is the kind of action that we also need to encourage. another consideration: i am well aware of the african problem and i can say that the european union is not the community area that supplies the greatest number of small arms to africa. i admit that we must lead the way, that we must even at times take the blame, but we must not make it appear that all these weapons are from the european union. most of these weapons do not come from the european union, but from other countries, including unused relics from certain armies. i could name countries, but i won't. but it is obvious that some people know and they know very well who i am talking about. so it is a very important element. as regards the arms trade treaty, which is to introduce mandatory national authorization for all international arms transfers and the establishment of effective authorization and licensing mechanisms, we of course support such measures and i hope that in a few months we will be able to take advantage of this kind of progress. express restrictions on arms transfers in cases of violation of obligations under international law, for example in cases of violation of un arms embargoes, customary law, international treaties binding the contracting parties or non-compliance with international prohibitions on certain weapons such as anti-personnel landmines, restrictions also on transfers based on use, for example where a contracting party is made aware that the transferred arms may be used in total violation of international humanitarian law or human rights law to commit genocide or crimes against humanity. these limitations are clearly important elements of the treaty. however, the current text remains very inaccurate in several areas. its main objective is to get a sufficient number of governments to agree on the principle of an international legal instrument on arms transfers. ngos are trying to build momentum around the concept of the treaty before they get into the details. the treaty was designed as a framework convention which could be supplemented by protocols dealing, inter alia, with arms brokering or licensed production. but, as always in such cases, maximum pressure will be needed to get all the states to sign up, because if it is always the same states that sign up and the same other states that do not, a certain discouragement will surely set in. finally, i would like to conclude, since reference has been made to my personal experience, by saying that it is sometimes difficult to judge whether or not to grant an arms export licence. in some cases, mr staes, when the army or police of a country, for example, which may not necessarily be a democracy, ask to have access to arms or to buy them, and that same government, that same country, is confronted by really very dangerous rebels, who, for example, organise real human shields when they attack police stations or schools, it is extremely difficult, as a responsible politician, to make a choice. what i'm really saying is that you never have a choice between a right or a wrong solution, you always have a choice between two wrong solutions. i see very well to what you are referring and i can assure you, in answer to your question, that if it were to be done again, i would take exactly the same decision, because i feel in my heart and soul that this was the decision i had to take.
member of the commission. mr president, i would also like to begin, on behalf of the commission, as mrs berès has done, by paying tribute to the work carried out by mr padóa-schioppa during his term of office as a member of the executive committee and the governing council of the european central bank. i think it was an example of doing the right thing, of respecting his institutional responsibilities and of demonstrating professionalism above all suspicion, professionalism which also graces mr bini smaghi's career. the european commission does not participate in the formal selection and appointment procedure for the members of the governing council of the european central bank, but it has had the good fortune to collaborate with and to know mr bini smaghi for a long time in his role as an academically trained and highly experienced economist, both in his role as an economist at the banca d'italia and in his responsibilities in the italian administration, and also in his very active participation in the economic and financial committee, in which, until his appointment as a member of the executive committee and the governing council of the european central bank, he was chairman of its subcommittee on monetary and financial matters. i think he is an absolutely suitable person to carry out the duties entrusted to him and therefore, although, i repeat, we have no formal involvement, we would be very pleased if parliament, as the ecofin council has done, supported this appointment. i do want to make one final consideration. the commission is not involved in the procedure, but it is the guardian of the treaties, and we have scrupulously examined whether the treaties and the rules in force have been complied with at all successive stages in the appointment of mr bini smaghi. i have had occasion to say so at the ecofin meeting, which unanimously proposed him as a candidate. but i would like to take this opportunity to say that there are still four euro-area member states which have not had the opportunity to sit on the executive board of the european central bank (belgium, luxembourg, ireland and portugal). the fact that the institutions have made appointments in the last two replacements of members of the executive committee of the central bank who are of the same nationality as the person being replaced does not prevent the commission from recalling that the procedure should not be based on the nationality of the person leaving but on the professional qualifications of the new member, as it certainly did in this case.
mr president, it is to be hoped mr smaghi will bring some semblance of financial discipline to the ecb. recently, i questioned the fact that the ecb had decided to double its printing of eur 500 banknotes this year – the highest value banknotes in the world and the russian mafia’s currency of choice, each one worth seven times a usd 100 bill. last year, counterfeit eur 500 notes rose by over 160%, and that is only the ones we know about. the commission’s reply to my questions would have stunned even a simpleton. it said, ‘a strong demand for high-value notes could be met only by lower denominations and increasing printing costs’. can you imagine that as a serious answer from a central bank? the reply went on, ‘eur 500 banknotes are widely used for hoarding purposes’ – surprise, surprise! and finally, ‘there are no indications that high-denomination banknotes encourage illegal transactions’. which planet do they live on? the ecb must be out of its tiny collective mind to encourage the wider circulation of such banknotes, and i believe mr smaghi has much work to do.
mr president, i thank commissioner frattini for his presentation. the problem is, commissioner, that there is a gap between your personal good faith, which i recognise, not to undermine privacy and data protection – and, indeed, the good faith of the commission that, in the search for security, you will not forego that – and the reality of what is happening on the ground. your pledges are under great strain, not least from the culture in european law enforcement communities, which is, at times, somewhat cavalier about data protection. in the context of the implementation of the principle of availability, of interoperability, of databases, of transfers to third countries – which become transfers to fourth countries – i do not see how you are going to be able to hold the line, because it is not happening at the moment. we have been waiting for years for rules on data protection in the third pillar, which we were promised at the end of this year. what can you do to create a climate of truly reinforced respect for strict data protection observances in this context of a huge pressure to dilute it, as we have just heard with regard to the pnr case?
member of the commission. i am taking this question on behalf of my colleague, mr barrot. the commission is at present studying the issue of airline insolvency. it has launched a study on the functioning of the internal market for air transport, which covers as a distinct part the issue of bankruptcy. in addition to providing the commission with a database containing important information on relevant insolvencies in the eu air industry as of 1 january 2000, the consultant has been asked to consider the issue of passengers stranded due to bankruptcy. it will conclude on the need or not for a protection mechanism for airline passengers and examine possible options. the study is expected to produce its findings by the end of august 2005. based on these conclusions, and if it is effectively confirmed that a large number of citizens are faced with a lack of protection, the commission will decide on possible future actions.
thank you for that response. you indicated that this might be ready by august, which misses this year’s summer holiday period. i think you will agree with me that most european people expect support if the airline goes bankrupt and they appear to be stranded. they imagine – or believe – that they will be supported and that the airlines will give them assistance. they think that they are supported by their travel insurance, when in fact most of them are not; they think that if they have used a credit card to book it or have done so on the internet, they are covered, but, again, they are not. do you feel that the commission ought to do some sort of publicity drive in advance of this summer holiday period to encourage people to have proper insurance? if they are not covered, and an airline goes bankrupt, they will be put in a dire situation. people expect more of the airlines than they are apparently getting at the moment.
member of the commission. in line with established practice in similar cases, the commission would like to underline that it has been in contact with the greek government before sending its letter of formal notice and its reasoned opinion. the national authorities, including members of the greek government, have thus had several opportunities to present their arguments in meetings with the commission. article 15 of the constitutional treaty establishes the principle of sincere cooperation between the union and member states. it requires the fulfilment on behalf of both parties of their task described in the constitution in full mutual respect. a procedure involving technical discussions between the commission and a three-member delegation of a member state government, as suggested by the honourable member, is not foreseen therein.
i was surprised by the commissioner’s reply just now. there is no constitution to use, it has not been ratified by the people of europe. why is he quoting a constitution? what is wrong with the treaty? (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. we are not involved in issuing propaganda. i have been very clear that the commission as an institution should not be involved in issuing propaganda. that is why we are concentrating on making, for example, the full text of the constitution, translated into the different languages, available and accessible to ordinary citizens to read for themselves. in some cases, our material may only be a summary of the text, or the full text. we make it clear that people can ask questions and that the services are available to citizens. the rest has to be part of, i hope, an informed debate in each and every member state, where the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides will be fully represented. we have really made it clear that we should not be issuing propaganda. we have limited our work to ensure that we can contribute to this informed and factual debate on the constitution.
i wonder whether the commissioner shares my frustration at the janus face of member states on this issue, where on the one hand they complain about lack of knowledge by their citizens of eu activity, and then on the other hand frustrate the european commission in terms of distributing information. now that the british general election is out of the way, will the commissioner hold new talks with the british government to discuss how factual information can be distributed in the uk about the work of the european union, and in particular about the contents of the constitution?
vice-president of the commission. it is correct that eurobarometer special 214 ‘the future constitutional treaty’ reveals that 67% of citizens have already heard of the constitution and that 33% have not. furthermore, according to that eurobarometer, 75% of those who know the constitution well are in favour and even 60% of those who have only a modest knowledge are favourable. however, the support of those who have never heard about the constitution so far is only 22%. the conclusion is clear. there is a vital need to communicate on this cornerstone project for the future of the european union. as you know, the main responsibility for communicating about the constitution lies with member states. nevertheless, the european commission is determined to undertake all the actions necessary to inform citizens about the content of the constitution, but also about its importance for the future of the union. we have therefore developed this strategy that i have mentioned before, consisting of ten initiatives which form an integrated concept, and support and enhance each other. they are: the distribution of the text of the constitution for free; a constitution website; training for national and regional journalists; round table discussions with civil society; information to universities and schools; support for the production of radio and television programmes and targeting the use of the ‘europe direct’ call centre. our eighth action involves mobilising our networks of multipliers in various policy areas. the ninth consists in undertaking detailed opinion poll analysis and focus group research, and the tenth in supporting the information campaigns of the member states. through these initiatives, we are seeking to develop an informed debate based on the contents of the constitution. members of the european parliament and individual member states also have a crucial role to play.
vice-president of the commission. you used your 30 seconds very well, mr mitchell. i will do what is incumbent on us as a european institution to contribute and ensure that we assist member states. the basic strategy has to be a national one. you in ireland are best placed to know about the sensitivities and the kinds of questions and debates you can have with your citizens. but we will do our best, in a professional way, to contribute, to assist you and to give you the backing and the material you need, and we are fully involved in doing so.
your list of ten points of action in terms of promoting information about the constitution are very welcome. it seems to me there is one omission: there is no provision for rebutting false information. it is absolutely urgent that we establish across the whole of the european union, using the network of commission offices, a system whereby we can respond immediately when myths and lies are told about the european union, and particularly about the content of the constitution. there is no point in responding 20 days or two months later, because then the myth has become stuck in reality. you need to respond instantly.
vice-president of the commission. we have started a rebuttal service. i agree with you that this is very important because sometimes pure lies are presented about the text of the constitution. we are engaged in a rebuttal service. perhaps we should make it more visible that we have started such a service. it is based very much around responding to statements that come up in the uk media. you can find it on the uk representation’s website. i agree that it is very important.
has the commission no shame in trying to ride to success in the referendum campaign on the back of emotion and sentiment, such as the commissioner deployed in her speech at the commemoration ceremony for the liberation of the concentration camp of terezin at the weekend? does the commission not have any appreciation that the opponents of the constitution are just as proud of the defeat of nazism as anyone else and that we take great offence when she tries to hijack and monopolise that sentiment in order to advance the political agenda of seeking to promote this constitution?
member of the commission. the question is very short but does not permit a very short answer. i think we should look at the issue from the short-term, medium-term and long-term perspective. in the short-term, as soon as the closure was announced, commission officials reacted, and we were in close and frequent contact with our counterparts in the west midlands. our first priority was to identify the range of actions needed to alleviate the consequences of the closure. these actions are undertaken with a view to securing long-term growth prospects for the region. let me stress very strongly that we have worked very closely over the last weeks with national and regional authorities, and this case demonstrates that we can cooperate if we want to help overcome this kind of tragic economic event. working together, we can assist the regional efforts to regain economic strength. then, in the medium term, the commission decided to work with the european vehicle manufacturers and other stakeholders with a view to improving the competitiveness of the sector. to this end my colleague, commissioner verheugen, has set up a high-level group called ‘cars 21’. the group is expected to present proposals on a competitive automotive regulatory system for the next ten years. in this group, we have industry representatives and also experts. for the long term, as you know, the issue of corporate restructuring and industrial policies is high on the european agenda these days, in line with the renewed lisbon agenda. the commission adopted, a few weeks ago, a communication on restructuring and employment, setting out measures to be developed or strengthened. it means that the european union can mobilise as regards anticipating and managing corporate restructuring. europe’s ministers for labour and employment and the european social partners have also met recently, again underlining the need to anticipate and work in partnership for successful corporate restructuring. i think it is important that they have concluded that successful restructuring requires a climate of trust. it requires good communication. by definition, this involves commitment from employers and employees in anticipating and managing change, seeking alternatives to lay-offs and exploring opportunities for training, out-placement and the creation of new activities. i think that the rover case has also been a factor in demonstrating that we have to think seriously about restructuring in europe.
thank you, commissioner, for your very comprehensive answer, particularly as i must confess that the question – i do not know if it was my office’s fault or that of someone else – was intended for mr verheugen and was aimed more at the industrial policy side of things. however, you very kindly covered a lot of these issues. in your own field, commissioner, are you convinced that there is enough flexibility in the existing structural funds to provide regional aid, if appropriate, social fund monies for retraining and – slightly outside your area – research and development money, if a viable use can be found for the plant?
member of the commission. frankly, we are not flexible enough. we have proposed in the future regulation, for example, setting up a kind of special reserve. i cannot remember how big it was supposed to be, but it would be a certain percentage of the funds. then every member state would have a reserve for cases like this and there would be no need to shift money between programmes or projects and become involved in a very complicated and bureaucratic process. unfortunately, in spite of the rover case, there is no support among the member states for such a reserve. so we will be deprived of this kind of flexibility in the future. at the same time, not only through the funds but also in general, we have embarked on a process that would allow us to contribute to the european structure in such a way as to ensure that future structures, based on new factors of production and growth, would be more flexible. this would allow the industries to adjust in time and in an evolutionary manner, rather than leading to the kind of restructuring we are facing in the case of rover. this is a question of flexible structures, which we can usually achieve if we base industrial development on modern factors, such as research and development, and modern technology. these structures are much more flexible than the old industry.
commissioner, i represent the west midlands. i started my working life in the longbridge plant that you have been talking about. i should first like to take the opportunity to thank you and your services very much for the prompt response that you referred to. it has been much appreciated by my region and the support that we have given to the people immediately affected. i should like to draw to your attention two points for you to reflect on. first, i am also privileged to be a member of the ‘cars 21’ group, to which you referred earlier. it is important that your services are also involved with mr verheugen in that. important regional issues are involved. secondly – and this is a lesson that i want to feed back to you from our experience in the west midlands – restructuring the supply chain for industries, and particularly the smes, was something we started on. we did not necessarily get a lot of support from you in the beginning, but it is a lesson i hope you will take for other major industries later.
vice-president of the commission. the commission considers the objective of providing patients with better information on medicinal products a high priority and is, therefore, working in different areas with a view to improving the situation. first of all, article 88a of directive 2001/83 calls upon the commission to present to parliament and the council a report on current practice with regard to information provision – particularly on the internet – and its risks and benefits for patients. the report will be prepared following consultations with patients' and consumers' organisations, doctors' and pharmacists' organisations, member states and interested parties. it is due within three years of the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 2004/726/ec – which means by 2007 – but the commission will do its best to present this report in advance of that deadline. in accordance with the results of the report, the commission is to table proposals setting out an information strategy to ensure good-quality, objective, reliable and non-promotional information on medicinal products and other treatments and address the question of the information source's liability. secondly, the g10 process: the report will also take into account experience from related activities in this area, such as the work of the european medicines agency with patient organisations, the public-private partnership under the g10 initiative and other relevant activities, such as the new european database on medicinal products. the regulation i already mentioned calls upon the european medicines agency to set up a publicly accessible database, which will cover medicines authorised by the community and by member states. the database will facilitate the search for information already authorised for package leaflets and will contain a section on paediatric medicines. the final report will then need to address the question of whether, beyond the stocktaking of current practice, with its risks and benefits, an improved information strategy is needed and what elements could be included. the third matter is the european union public health programme running from 2003 until 2008, which has as its objective the creation of a comprehensive and reliable information and knowledge system. that is being created on the basis of a shortlist of agreed indicators for which data is collected mainly through eurostat and ad hoc services and projects. analysis of data is supported through the programme, leading to regular reporting on public health issues. all project reports are published on the commission public health website. in addition, in order to improve the presentation and availability of information to the public, to specialised audiences and to patients, the commission is at an advanced stage of preparing an eu public health portal, drawing together information at eu level, national and regional levels, and with resources from civil society. it is planned to launch this initiative before the end of this year.
commissioner wallström is always welcome to the stage, but she may understand that we are a little disappointed that the commissioner designated – to whom we tabled this question – is not here to answer it. perhaps she could take a gentle message back asking him to turn up in future. i am grateful for the off-the-cuff response she has given me today: it is voluminous and helpful. however, she will understand – it is partly in the question – that patients feel the urgent need for more information about their condition, drugs and treatments. too often they go to the internet and get information that may be misleading or may be dangerous. therefore, it is urgent that we have authorised and authenticated systems of information for patients. perhaps the commissioner could take back the message that the penalty for commissioner verheugen is to speed up the process even more.
vice-president of the commission. as key drivers of innovation, job creation and competitiveness, small- and medium-sized enterprises have been firmly put centre stage in the recently adopted growth and employment strategy. the commission intends to present a new framework for sme policy in the second half of this year. since the presentation of the growth and employment strategy on 2 february, three initiatives of significant relevance to smes have already been taken. the first is better regulation. the commission adopted, on 16 march, a communication on better regulation for growth and jobs in the european union, one of its goals being to further reduce red tape. that is particularly relevant for smes because they have limited resources and suffer disproportionately from red tape. the commission will refine the impact assessment tool, an important tool for considering the effect of eu legislation on smes. the economic analysis of these assessments will be improved, which will strengthen their quality and make a significant contribution to competitiveness. the commission will also address regulatory excess in existing legislation. to get the best possible input to legislative simplification, we need to involve all stakeholders including smes. based on their input we will draw up action plans for simplifying regulations per industrial sector. the commission is initiating a test phase for a common approach to measuring administrative costs in the eu, an issue of particular importance to smes. secondly, this is all about access to eu programmes for smes. on 6 april, the commission adopted its remaining proposals for the new financial perspectives. they included two instruments of significance to smes: the eur 4.2 billion competitiveness and innovation programme (cip), and the eur 70 billion seventh framework programme for research and technological development. the cip is aimed fairly and squarely at smes. they will be the sole beneficiaries of the eur 1 billion earmarked for the community financial instruments and of the business and innovation support services, which will be provided through the european union networks. smes will also be the primary beneficiaries of the entrepreneurial innovation activities. on the basis of experience of existing instruments, the commission estimates that well over 70% of this competitiveness and innovation programme budget will be targeted to smes. to step up the involvement of smes in research and technological development, we will strive for increased sme participation also in the seventh framework programme. efforts are under way to simplify the programme's management, diminish the costs for submitting applications, reduce the delay to contract and secure more certainty for applicants. the proposed funds available for the programme, dedicated to smes, will be more than doubled in this framework programme, in comparison with the previous one. that will help smes with no or little research capacity to get input from research providers. collaborative research remains the core and bulk of the framework programme. the choice of the nine themes will favour sme participation. on 16 april a new sme envoy, mrs maive ruth, was appointed. she is an official of the european commission and will act as a contact point for smes, maintain a dialogue with smes and ensure that their interests are properly considered within all eu policies and programmes.
vice-president of the commission. i am sure commissioner verheugen would be better placed to give you exact dates. all this work has started. recently i was in prague and met with business representatives, who were really impressed. they said that for the first time they had heard some of the messages they wanted to hear about cutting red tape and understanding the conditions of small- and medium-sized enterprises. so at least they felt happy about what is coming out of the commission so far. i know work on this has already started, for example, the inventory to look at access regulation that exists. within the framework programme there are given dates for what you can apply, etc. the whole approach and the whole message on smes has really been absorbed by the commission and the way we work. this is extremely important. this is where new jobs should be created in the future: in the small- and medium-sized enterprises. i can give you only a general answer. i will inform my colleague of your views.
i was pleased that the commissioner put emphasis on the whole question of better regulation because we know that regulation bears much more on small businesses than on larger ones. in connection with the sme envoy, could the commissioner tell us whether the commission plans to give the sme envoy a much more explicit remit within the better regulation programme, enabling the envoy to scrutinise legislative projects, specifically from the perspective of small enterprise, and publish a report that this parliament can see, so that we know that the concerns of smes are being fully and properly reflected in the better regulation programme?
mr president, as coordinator for the ppe-de group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i wish to pay special tribute to our rapporteur, mr zappalà, for piloting this very complex legislation safely through to a final conclusion. there are a number of colleagues here who worked in the last parliament; i see many familiar faces. many colleagues have worked together on this and it is a tribute to mr zappalà’s persistence that we now have a very good result. i am delighted that we have managed to reach agreement without a need for conciliation. it is sometimes easy to forget that mutual recognition of professional qualifications within the european single market has been one of the foundation stones of the whole of the internal market project. this is a much-needed reform of the whole package. it has been necessary to deal with the frustrations that have been felt by many professionals about some of the difficulties in accessing their rights under internal market legislation. it is important we deal with those issues now, as part of our overall strategy to open up the internal market for services. these are part of the same proposals. there is no question, mrs rühle, of one frustrating another. they are all parts of a clearly integrated approach. if you look at the danish economic study on the opening-up of the internal market for services, it identifies professional qualifications as the area with the most potential for growth. in terms of timing and linking these proposals together, i am really pleased that we now have this major reform, because it will be an indispensable building block of our overall approach. i am sure that by the end of this year, or early next year, we will also have agreed a substantive proposal to open up the market for services. this will allow qualified professionals to take advantage of the single market and use their skills to drive home the advantages for growth and jobs that an internal market for services must deliver.
mr president, we are all grateful to mr zappalà who has been our very own service provider on this important measure. it has made more progress in the last three months than in the previous three years. that is, i believe, a happy augury. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is now seeing the fourth successful conclusion, at second reading, of an important piece of consumer protection. i hope our fellow members will recognise that. the free movement of professionals is an important step in achieving the lisbon agenda. it opens up opportunities in other member states for dentists, doctors, construction workers and gas engineers that were often closed as a result of an effective ‘closed shop’ among the professions. i am very grateful that our three german colleagues directly address the reservations in their own member state on this issue. this is in unmistakable terms in the light of the progress we should make. this is an advance to balance free movement and competition, and ensure health and safety and consumer protection at one and the same time. i commend it, and i hope the commissioner will give it speedy effect.
mr president, i must congratulate the rapporteur for producing what, even by general standards of eu documentation, is 19 pages of the most unreadable, bureaucratic gobbledy-gook, all of which comes under the laughable heading of ‘simplification’ of the market in fruit and vegetables! never in the field of vegetable and fruit cultivation has so much been said to so little purpose. however, i would draw members’ attention to paragraph 46, which reminds the commission that imports from third countries do not always provide the levels of safety and quality that the european consumer has grown accustomed to: hence the need to guarantee that third country products meet the same safety and quality requirements as european union products. roughly translated that means that non-eu countries can produce their goods cheaper, and this must be stopped at all costs. that is crude protectionism and seeks to preserve the eu fruit and vegetable market as a cocooned environment, controlled by suffocating bureaucracy which outside competition must never be allowed to penetrate. however, it is regulations that mrs herranz garcía wants, even on pot herbs and parsley! rhubarb gets a mention as well, but i shall resist the obvious joke, except to say that unlike the eu, the industry does not want to talk rhubarb, it only wants to grow it! i urge members to reject this report or, at the very least, require it to be translated from the original bureaucracy into plain language, so that we can all understand.
mr president, i also support the questions that my colleagues have asked the commission, which are extremely important in terms of how we deal with the continuing crisis in sudan, in the north-south negotiations as well as in darfur. as mr gahler said, dr mudawi, a brave defender of human rights in sudan was once again arrested by the sudanese government, by its national security and intelligence agency. he was about to board a plane, ready to go to be presented with an award by the president of ireland. that is continuing evidence – as if we needed it – of the determination of the sudanese government to harass human rights defenders and arbitrarily arrest, without trial, people who have the audacity to speak out. that evidence needs to be taken into account in the attitudes we take in terms of the eur 4 billion of budgetary spending that has been allocated. we need to be absolutely clear that we reject and are prepared to speak out about the attitude of the sudanese government to anyone who wishes to fight against oppression and for rights and freedoms. the suffering and agony of the sudanese people demands a renewed and much more determined international effort on their behalf. what we are talking about in sudan is the real tragedy of our time. it is the failure of the international community to deal with ethnic cleansing, with mass rape and killings in that country. i was looking only this morning at recent reports by ngos about how banditry continues and how the difficulties of delivering humanitarian aid are exacerbated by this situation. the idps in sudan are reporting very clearly to ngos – and british ngos are reporting to me – that they are identifying arab militias that are now being absorbed into the army of the government of sudan and trained as soldiers. the ngos have reported continuing attacks, again this week, on women collecting firewood. those women are now so desperate that they are selling part of their food rations in order to buy wood in the markets to try to avoid the attacks they experience as they leave the camps to get firewood. we understand that ethnic cleansing has virtually now stopped. however, if you ask the african union, they will tell you that it has largely stopped because ethnic cleansing is largely complete in darfur. two million people are homeless, and they are still being terrorised by the janjaweed militias. it is estimated that 197 000 people are seeking refuge in the inhospitable deserts of chad, which we visited last december. those people have lost everything but are still prepared, in desperation, to leave their country to go to chad. the desperation of those people in sudan puts into perspective some of the debates that we have in our countries in europe about asylum and immigration. peacekeeping remains the key issue. the african union is hopelessly stretched at this time and cannot fulfil its mandate unless we see much more concerted efforts to beef up the military support that they need in that country.
mr president, no sooner had sudan emerged from 21 years of bloody civil war between the islamist government of sudan and the christian/animist south, finally ended by the comprehensive peace agreement signed in nairobi this january, than another appalling humanitarian situation emerged in darfur in february 2003, whose importance internationally must be reinforced now that attention may be drifting away following the tsunami in south-east asia. a recent estimate by the british house of commons select committee put the casualty figures as high as 300 000, with 10 000 people dying each month from disease, starvation and atrocities, and two million people homeless and displaced, destabilising neighbouring chad. whether one calls it genocide or not, it still amounts to the most serious systematic violation of fundamental rights probably anywhere on the globe. the african union urgently needs to help stop the killing in darfur, where whole villages have been bombed and torched, where mass executions and rape are common and where an aids crisis is now looming. millions have fallen victim to a scorched earth struggle between sudanese president omar al-bashir’s arab-dominated regime, and its janjaweed militias, and ethnic african secessionists in darfur. at last, the united nations is acting, under security council resolution 1593, with a referral of those accused of war crimes to the icc. china, a traditional ally of sudan because it has oil investments there, and the united states, which opposes the icc, have both acquiesced and abstained in the security council. while the fighting has cooled off, un secretary general kofi annan this week appealed for an african force of 12 000 troops, up from the 7 500 expected by august and the 2 500 african union troops who are already in the region. kofi annan also wants non-african states to supply more troops, and canada has been one of the first to agree. representatives from the two groups – the sudan liberation movement and the justice and equality movement – declared on monday their commitment to a ceasefire and to unconditionally resuming talks with the sudanese government. i welcome the release of the eur 450 million of eu humanitarian aid, and do not accept the pleas of innocence and, to date, impunity of the brutal regime in khartoum, which must be held to account for its brutal crimes.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, in the european union, we are very good at sanctimonious rhetoric about the need for poverty reduction in poor countries. but whatever the appearances, this is not what today’s discussion is about. as mr almunia has made clear, it is about influence. i will not comment on mr wolfowitz’s suitability to lead the world bank, but the european union’s initial hostility to him has softened. the eu needs support for pascal leumi to head up the world trade organization and for its candidate – perhaps baroness amos? – to lead the united nations development programme. hence the comment of action aid that eu support for mr wolfowitz is a stitch-up, and similar remarks from other ngos. whilst i will not diminish the value to poor nations of assistance from the world bank and the european union, fair trading conditions would be of far greater value to them than any amount of aid or debt relief. trade, rather than hand-outs, allows poor nations to help themselves, as the indonesians were pleading after the tsunami. unfortunately, the eu seems to excel in poverty creation in pursuit of its own agenda: for example, paying cash to mauritania, angola and mozambique for the right to fish out their coastal waters and impoverish their fishermen; or economic partnership agreements under which the european union tries to buy poor nations’ acquiescence to its protectionist policies. no doubt the rhetoric will continue. the reality is that self-interest rather than philanthropy drives the eu’s actions, and this self-interest is best served by the eu having its own people in the top jobs.
mr president, kyrgyzstan is a small, central asian muslim republic of incredible natural beauty and proud nomadic traditions. kyrgyzstan was annexed by russia in 1864, but it achieved independence from the soviet union in 1991. it has recently been in the news, following the 27 february parliamentary elections, when election irregularities caused widespread protest, starting in the south of the country. the president was forced to flee, accused of corruption and stealing the election. yesterday, on a state visit to georgia, president bush called for freedom and democracy everywhere in the communist world. kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with a predominantly agricultural economy, but it has carried out significant market reforms under ex-president akaev. he has distinguished himself by adopting relatively liberal economic policies, and has introduced an improved regulatory system and land reform. kyrgyzstan was the first cis country to be accepted into the wto, and most state companies have been sold off, although, regrettably, cronyism and corruption have been rife. it is hoped that its revolution – if it is a revolution – will place it on a firm path to democracy, respect for human rights and good governance. it could be a model for surrounding states like uzbekistan, kazakhstan and tajikistan which maintain authoritarian systems that are only in partial transition. but border disputes between kyrgyzstan and its neighbours are delaying the process of frontier delimitation with tajikistan in particular, but also with uzbekistan. there is also the problem of the illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppies for the cis markets and limited government eradication of illicit narcotic crops. kyrgyzstan also serves as a transit point to south-west asian narcotic markets and narcotics bound for russia and the rest of europe. presidential elections are scheduled for july: i have confirmed this from the internet. the european parliament should definitely send observers to watch kyrgyzstan’s transition to democracy. (applause)
in writing. i voted against the report on the working time directive because individual workers should lose their right to opt out of the maximum 48 hour working week. this proposal is an intolerable interference with personal freedom of choice and liberty and typifies brussels' mindset of wishing to dictate every facet of our socio-economic life. unfortunately, the amendment to preserve the opt-out clause was defeated and thus the rest of europe is lining up to foist upon us a working time directive which is largely unsupported within the united kingdom. this is one of the insufferable burdens of eu membership and a salutary warning against the increasing brussels' control which the new constitution would bring upon us, given the socio-economic dogma which it contains in part iii.
in writing. ukip meps voted against amendment 37 because the working time directive is already operating and will continue. we therefore aim to mitigate its worst aspects. currently it is possible to opt-out of the 48-hour week by way of either an individual, or a group, signing an agreement with the employer. the european commission wishes to retain the opt-outs, the cercas report eliminates them. amendment 37 was listed as, "proposal to reject the commission proposal". by voting against this amendment ukip was seeking to restore the commission position, hence retaining opt-outs.
in writing. my own region - the east of england - suffers the longest working hours in the u.k., with one-in-ten of people in transport working over 60 hours per week; the same numbers of machine operatives working more than 56 hours per week, of skilled tradespeople more than 53 hours per week; and of construction and storage workers more than 50 hours per week. just as it was right to bring in the minimum wage to combat the problem of poverty pay, it is now time to call time on excessive working hours, which see workers bullied and exploited, fuel stress and other health problems, and which damage family life. that is why i fully support the end, with necessary safeguards, to the british opt-out from eu working time rules.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague mr cercas on his excellent report. he has struck an admirable compromise between the needs of a flexible labour market and the protection of individual workers from the damage long hours can do to their health and safety and work-life balance. annualisation of the 48 hour week will allow businesses to cope with seasonal fluctuations, sudden increases in demand or crisis situations. the employee will be guaranteed reasonable hours over the whole of the year. ending the individual opt-out will give protection to those workers who under the present directive face pressure to sign away their rights.
in writing. today the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of a compromise package on working time proposed by the pes the epp groups in the european parliament. it will now be put to the governments in the eu council for consideration. it is in line with our vote in 2004 and supports the principle at the heart of this directive, the health and safety of workers and the aim to reconcile work and family life and increase productivity. the eplp understands the adjustment difficulties faced by the united kingdom and others, but thanks to certain flexible provisions in the report, such as the extended reference period of 12 months, these difficulties are overcome. we recognise that on call time is the same as working time, as ruled by the ecj in the simap and jaeger cases. these landmark rulings have implications for the nhs and member states' health care systems, but by allowing member states themselves to calculate this part of working time, the compromise package we have achieved is sufficiently flexible. the eplp hopes a positive vote at the first stage of the process will ensure the adoption of a report on working time that safeguards workers' health and safety, makes work-life balance a reality whilst containing the requisite degree of flexibility.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the british poet john donne observed: ‘no man is an island, entire of itself, but a piece of the continent, a part of the main. if a clod be washed away by the sea, europe is the less’. that was in 1624, yet for over 300 years peoples and states continued to wage war across our continent. tribalism and hatred are europe’s ugly legacy. if we had not learned it earlier, the ‘war to end all wars’ should have shown us the futility and the trauma of organised warfare. our awakening from that nightmare led to the league of nations, yet we continued to distil the fruits of scientific advance into the firewater of the weapons of mass destruction. by the time world war ii ended in europe, on 8 may 1945, more than 40 million people had lost their lives. a cynic might say that 20th century europeans were slow learners. it took two bloody wars and a continent in ruins to teach us that a united europe is worth more than the sum of its parts. not all of us were able even then to realise our aspirations for peace and freedom. while for most europeans may 1945 marked the liberation of their countries from nazi tyranny and the beginning of a new path to freedom and reconstruction, for those who found themselves on the wrong side of the iron curtain, one tyranny was quickly replaced by another. a further two generations were denied the liberty we now enjoy. as a student at the karl marx university in leipzig in 1976, i saw this at first hand. our historical perspectives are inevitably different. but this must be a debate about the future, not the past. let us rejoice that europe is united in peace and that we can sit together in the same debating chamber with a set of common supranational institutions of government deciding on matters of mutual concern. it was the imperative of interdependence that brought the european union into being and saw the soviet bloc finally crumble. we started with coal and steel, the building blocks of post-war europe; we built the common market, the basis of prosperity undreamt of by my parents; we made the single currency a reality for 300 million europeans at the dawn of this new century. as we mark the 60th anniversary of a lasting peace, we see that europe has come a long way, through gradual steps to build solidarity between our peoples. there is no doubt that the european union has been a success: liberté, egalité, fraternité have become part of our common legislative and social fabric. but there is no guarantee it will always be that way, and we stand now at a watershed, represented by the constitutional treaty. can we move forward and consolidate this unprecedented era of peace, stability and prosperity, or will it melt before our eyes and be replaced by a new national rivalry and brinkmanship? a financial times columnist reminded us last week how thin is the veneer of civilisation, how weak the voice of human conscience when tempted away from the rule of law and respect for our fellow human beings. this is the challenge before our member states as they are called upon to ratify the constitution. a peaceful and prosperous europe was always based on the premise that strength lay in convergence and shared mandates. cooperation has grown from trade to encompass social policy, employment, immigration, justice, policing and foreign policy. the revolutions in central and eastern europe have lifted from our shoulders the yoke of yalta, but we are confronted with new challenges. the challenge, for example, of feeding, clothing and housing a growing world population, while more and more are pushed into migration by war or hunger or sheer desperation. the challenge of dealing with a hole in the ozone layer, melting ice caps, rising sea levels and climate change. or the threat of internationally organised crime, where some criminal gangs are now more powerful than some national governments, bringing misery to many though the trade in drugs and small arms and the trafficking of people, and working hand-in-hand with terrorists. none of these challenges can be faced by our countries acting alone. to provide the security, prosperity and opportunity which our fellow citizens expect government to deliver, we have to work together. and work together, too, with the united states and canada, to whose people we owe so much and whose values by and large we share, not only to confront with them common challenges but to make them feel more comfortable with a new and more powerful europe. europe has the potential to be a beacon of hope, a model of tolerance, diversity and stability, in a world where these attributes are still rare. we can insist on a bill of rights, or we can see our rights eroded. we can ratify the european constitution and put our faith in democracy and accountable government, or we can continue to leave too much power in unelected hands. we can hold out the hand of friendship to the dispossessed, or cocoon ourselves in an illusory haven of prosperity. we can welcome romania, bulgaria, turkey and the western balkans and accept that europe should be plural and diverse, or continue to treat each other with hostility and suspicion. convergence is not just an ideal, it is an economic and political necessity. it is time to move beyond national self-interest towards greater convergence. cooperation is the way forward, enabling us to face global challenges together. europe has a leading role to play in the era of global governance. it is a stabilising force and a benchmark for other countries and peoples. trade and cooperation can bring to others the fruits it has brought to us, and for that reason my group welcomes greater contact with russia and the people’s republic of china. but history should teach us not to be an instrument in supporting authoritarian regimes. liberals and democrats view with concern the direction of some of the council’s policies: to undercut the americans in some downward dutch auction of human rights standards would be an affront to the dignity for which europe’s people have fought so hard. just as no man is an island, no country is an island either. we are joined together in our custody of a fragile world and our stewardship of its inhabitants. let europe exemplify the dignity of difference and grasp the challenge. (applause)
mr president, i sometimes wonder what the arguments are for the european union. they certainly cannot be economic, because we do not live in a world of huge trade tariffs and certainly there is now a global economy. they certainly cannot be democratic, because this parliament is the only democratic element within the european union and it is almost as good as useless. however, if there were one argument for the european union that would make me change my mind, it would be the argument that the european union would give us, and would guarantee, peace. however, all of this is based on a series of false assumptions. it was not democratic nation-states that caused the first and second world wars. if you look back through history, you find that mature democracies do not go to war with each other. it is also wrong and quite false to claim that the eu has kept the peace in europe for the last 50 years. what war has it stopped? was portugal going to fight italy in the mid-1970s? what possible war could it have stopped? if there has been a guarantor of peace over the last 50 years, surely it must be nato, an example of intergovernmental cooperation. president borrell goes on about the reunification of europe. i wonder sometimes what he is even talking about. the important thing is: will the eu guarantee peace? does federation guarantee peace? it did not in yugoslavia or in the ussr and it did not in the united states of america, which, you remember, had one of the bitterest and bloodiest civil wars in the history of mankind. if we go on selling this project to the peoples of europe on a lie, we are more likely than not to stoke up and cause bitter resentments and extreme nationalism. what we must do is tell the peoples of europe the truth about our ambitions and give them free and fair referendums, otherwise we are heading for disaster.
president of the council. mr president, on the situation of qualified teachers in the united states, i can answer mr robert evans that the council is not aware of the situation as set out in this question. the type of professional relations mentioned by the honourable member is a matter for the member states alone. therefore, although human rights issues are an important part of the regular dialogue between the european union and the united states, the union is not in a position to discuss this type of professional relationship with the us authorities.
thank you for that response, even if it was not quite the one i wanted. surely, this is not a matter that needs 25 countries to act individually; it is a very serious issue. our relations with the united states are not just about trade and businesses making money and, equally, this is not just a united states issue, nor one solely concerning american citizens, as there are a good number of europeans teaching at these american institutions. now i understand that the provost of columbia university in new york has issued instructions on how he would like graduate teachers dealt with and punished. i would say to the presidency, in solidarity and in defence of international labour law, that we should not remain silent on this and we should not just stand aside and allow a flagrant abuse of workers’ rights. although this is happening in the united states, it could also be affecting european citizens. i would urge him to go back and see what more can be done.
president of the council. i would like to agree with the importance of drawing the council's attention to the treatment of minorities in the regions you have just mentioned and of drawing some sort of comparison with the protection of minorities under the ohrid agreement. however, i believe that these are two different situations which must be assessed as such. the union will certainly, in the context of the development of its relations with serbia, place a strong emphasis on the protection of minorities in the regions to which you have referred.
president of the council. as already emphasized in response to similar questions, the council has repeatedly stated its commitment to the continuation of efforts for the reunification of cyprus and its wish that all cypriots may soon be reunited as cypriot and european citizens of an island united within the european union. with this in mind, the european union has been examining measures to end the isolation of the turkish cypriot community and to facilitate the reunification of cyprus by promoting the economic development of the turkish cypriot community. some measures have already been taken to this end, such as the so-called green line regulation, adopted in 2004 and recently amended to broaden its scope and increase its effectiveness. the commission has also worked on other measures, namely the commission's proposals concerning the financial support instrument to promote the economic development of the turkish cypriot community and trade with areas where the government of the republic of cyprus does not exercise effective control. the adoption of these two proposals is not yet possible because there are still difficulties to be overcome, particularly as regards direct trade. it is to this last proposal that the honourable member refers in particular. the hypothesis put forward by commissioner rehn at the january meeting of parliament's foreign affairs committee, concerning a possible change in the legal basis of this proposal, has not yet been presented to the council. it is up to the commission to amend its proposal accordingly if it wishes. the presidency cannot, of course, at this stage prejudge any possible council deliberations in this respect. i should point out, however, that there are legal opinions which do not confirm the commission's approach to the legal basis which it originally adopted. the council, through the presidency, can once again assure the honourable member that it will continue its efforts to promote the economic integration of the island and the improvement of relations between the two cypriot communities and with the european union.
deputising for the author.– i thank the president-in-office of the council for that reply. it seems to me that everybody is blaming everybody else. it has been over a year since the council pledged to end the isolation of turkish cypriots in the wake of their two-thirds ‘yes’ vote to the un’s annan plan for a political settlement. one has to ask what trust can anyone place in eu pledges if this is an example of non-delivery. as the minister pointed out, direct trade and helping the economy of the north would assist in a political settlement. it is of no help to anyone for the turkish cypriots to be so far behind the greek cypriots in income and economic development. when will some serious pressure be exerted to actually deliver on that year-old pledge? in the meantime, the turkish cypriots are dangling out there in isolation, losing trust in eu promises. i must confess, i cannot blame them. when can we expect these two regulations to be passed?
president of the council. i can simply say, madam president, that your question is timely, because in an hour and a half, i myself, as the representative of the presidency, and commissioner rehn, will be going to cyprus to try to discuss the problems you have just mentioned. i believe that the presidency fully intends to see these problems resolved as soon as possible and thus to comply with the political commitments which the council made last april.
acting president of the council the commission's proposals identifying the measures to be taken to accelerate the achievement of the millennium development goals have been on the council's table at working group level since 14 april 2005. the luxembourg presidency intends to do all it can to ensure that the council, at its meeting on 23 and 24 may, will be able to define the broad lines of its renewed commitments, which will be aimed essentially, first, at setting new intermediate targets for the increase of public aid budgets by 2010, both individual and relating to the union as a whole, with a view to achieving an overall effort of 0.7% of gross national income in 2015. secondly, to accelerate reforms to improve the quality of aid; thirdly, to reconsider the way in which the european union, through its own model of sustainable development, through its internal and external policies, can influence the conditions for development. the first is that the policy coherence for development is a fundamental element of our approach to cooperation and development and the fourth is that africa should be given priority in these new guidelines and that the new opportunities for partnership between the two continents should be seized. the european union is fully aware of the importance and urgency of the task. in this context, the european council, at its meeting on 22 and 23 march, invited the commission and the council to speed up their work, in particular on the various components of the development strand, in order to finalise positions on the various issues and to enable the european union to play an active role in the forthcoming discussions in preparation for the united nations summit in september 2005. i have already announced this morning that the ecofin council, after having discussed the new possible financing methods at its last meeting, will return to this question at its informal meeting this weekend.
president of the council. i do think that there is a new will to move clearly and resolutely towards the 0.7% target. i agree with the honourable member that it has been too long. this objective has been discussed for more than 30 years. the time to implement it is now, and it is true that the deadlines set may still be too long.
president of the council. since my speech to parliament last february, the israeli government has, to our great regret, decided to extend the restrictions on the release of mr mordechai vanunu last year for a further 12 months. in addition, a trial is underway in which mr vanunu is accused of breaching these restrictions and may face another prison sentence. it seems that this case is extremely sensitive for the israeli authorities. the authorities appear to want to protect the security of the state of israel. in taking the decision to extend the restrictions on mr vanunu, the israeli government claimed that he still had information to disclose. however, almost 20 years after the events, it is also legitimate to recognize the fundamental rights of a person who has spent 18 years in prison, such as the right to live in dignity, freedom and peace. we will therefore continue to engage with the israeli authorities, particularly on the question of respect for human rights, in the framework of the political dialogue we are conducting with them, and in the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, with which the government of israel has committed itself to cooperating, on security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and specifically on respect for human rights.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply, which was as helpful as it could be in the circumstances. however, it is clear to me that israel has moved from protecting state security to persecuting this man. i hope the council really will keep up the pressure on israel to release him. mordechai vanunu has been elected rector of glasgow university in my country, and we would very much like to see him able to come to the university and take up his role. therefore, i hope the council will continue its pressure.
president of the council. georgia has been through a period of great turmoil but has now embarked on the path of democratization. it also seeks to bring the eu closer. i believe that this rapprochement with the european union, particularly in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, should also be used to exert pressure on the georgian authorities to respect not only human rights in general but also the rights of minorities in particular. i therefore believe that this issue should be given a prominent place in the framework of relations between the european union and georgia. it is also because georgia wants to get closer to europe, and in particular to the european union, that we will be better able to defend the rights of the greek minorities to which you have referred.
president of the council. the council welcomes the commitment made by several heads of state or government in sofia on 2 february 2005 to eliminate all forms of discrimination against roma by 2015. i do not need to remind you of the discussions we have just had on the end of the second world war and the suffering of the roma people. this commitment is a major initiative given that since 1 may 2004 roma communities have become the largest ethnic minority in the european union. due to the specific nature of their situation, their integration represents a major challenge in terms of the protection of fundamental rights and social inclusion. as the honourable member is certainly aware, the european union has on several occasions, during the accession negotiations with the new member states, as well as with bulgaria and romania, referred to the situation of the roma as an area requiring political attention from the governments of these states, in particular in the light of the copenhagen political criteria concerning in particular the need to guarantee respect for and protection of minorities. the main responsibility for meeting the challenge of roma integration lies with the national authorities, as well as with the regional and local authorities where roma are most represented. civil society actors and the roma themselves also have a key role to play. member states may also implement at community level various relevant policy programmes and instruments in the fields of non-discrimination, equal treatment and social inclusion. in particular, they may rely on directive 2000/43 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. the directive covers a wide range of areas where discrimination against roma may occur: employment, training, education, social protection, access to goods and services and access to housing. finally, the structural funds, and in particular the european regional development fund and the european social fund, can finance a number of initiatives in favour of the roma community. this is particularly the case with the community initiative equal, which is funded by the european social fund and which develops new approaches to combat discrimination and inequalities in the labour market specifically targeting the roma community.
thank you for that answer. in it you reflected the seriousness of the challenge that we face, as the roma are now the biggest homogeneous minority in the enlarged european union. are we aware of the lack of activity by member states, for example, their lack of implementation of the equal treatment directive and of article 13 of the race equality directive, where the commission is taking enforcement action? are we aware that member states are lagging badly behind on the implementation of existing law that would protect the roma community, particularly in employment? this is a serious issue. can the roma issue, given how immense it is, be reflected in final statements by the luxembourg presidency, to ensure that the united kingdom presidency that follows takes this issue equally seriously?
i wish to press the president-in-office on the final point my colleague made. it would send a very positive signal, if this matter was raised at the level of heads of state and government, and the final communiqué contained a reference to it. the roma feel they are a neglected body within this european union. this would send a good signal to them and would perhaps act as a lead, encouraging the member states to take proper action.
i am grateful to the president, but i believe this was meant to be ratified in march. letters from the hague conference have gone unanswered, and this sends a very poor message to parents and others who would wish to take advantage of this convention, both in the community and in third countries. it also sends an unfortunate message to the outside world. i hope your assurance that it will enter into force before the end of the year proves correct.
president of the council. first of all, i must correct what the honourable member said, since there was no coreper today; coreper was therefore unable to discuss any proposals on status. i can simply confirm that a discussion is under way on a number of aspects of the statute, essentially on the basis of what was proposed to the council by parliament some two years ago. i would remind you that it is for the european parliament to draw up the statute, after the council has given its approval. i would add that the council has a special interest, at least as important as your parliament, in seeing this statute adopted. once there is an agreement, i think the statute can come into force, if parliament wishes. as regards all these factual matters, these are decisions which must be taken, within the framework of the rules of procedure, by parliament itself and i can also assure you, mr martin, that the council places great emphasis on the importance of transparency in the field of fees. you are not alone, the council is as insistent as you are on this point.
president of the council. the subject raised in this question is the subject of the proposal for a council regulation on specific measures in the field of agriculture in favour of the outermost regions of the union presented by the commission on 24 october 2004. this proposal for a regulation was discussed in general terms by one of the council working parties. the luxembourg presidency will convene a new meeting of this group immediately in order to speed up the work with a view to reaching agreement at council level as soon as the council has received the european parliament's opinion on the proposal for a regulation concerned. the council has no say in the way in which the european commission exercises its right of initiative guaranteed by the treaties.
president of the council. i want to thank you for your well wishes. i can assure you that the luxembourg presidency attaches particular importance to the problems of the outermost regions and, in this case, to the problems of agriculture in these outermost regions. we hope that we can complete this file as you requested.
president of the council. the european union coordination office for palestinian police support is supporting the european union special representative for the middle east peace process. its task is to coordinate the assistance provided by the member states of the european union and, where appropriate, by international donors to the palestinian civil police. he is cooperating with the palestinian authority. in doing so, it provides practical advice to both the palestinian civilian police and those responsible for policing matters within the palestinian authority. at the strategic level, it provides liaison with other stakeholders and oversees the transformation of the police. the unit comprises four senior police advisers of the union and a local office head. the recruitment of two additional advisers is ongoing. on the basis of a memorandum of understanding between the union special representative, mr marc otte, and the uk government's department for international development, the set-up and running costs for the first year were financed by the united kingdom in the amount of eur 390 000. an additional amount of eur 220 000 was paid by the united kingdom for a small investment scheme administered by the union coordination office. by the nature of its function, the union coordination office identifies, proposes and helps to manage a number of specific bilateral aid projects, some of which have already been launched. these projects include the renovation of the jericho police training centre, the provision of training and equipment for law enforcement, and an audit of communications infrastructure and equipment. these projects, financed and implemented by the eu member states and other donors, constitute the main part of the substantial amount of financial, material and technical assistance provided to the palestinian civil police. the appropriate and necessary mechanism for implementation shall be provided by the european union coordination office and its strategic framework. the salaries and accommodation costs of the chief police advisers shall be borne by the member states seconding them and shall be considered as additional contributions in kind. administrative support is also provided by the police unit in brussels. the format initially chosen for the establishment of the eu coordination office has the advantage of being lightweight and administratively flexible, allowing the eu to respond quickly and effectively in an appropriate framework to the needs of the palestinian civil police, which are identified in accordance with the political orientation given by the council and recalled in the question.
president of the council. firstly, on security issues, i can simply say that, in view of the developments which now seem to be taking place, in view of the elections which have taken place in the palestinian territories, the european union will have to commit itself more permanently to helping to put in place all the security arrangements which will allow the peace process to continue and thus achieve the objective of the creation of a palestinian state. as regards economic cooperation, it will be necessary to examine to what extent the european union, through the substantial economic aid it provides to the palestinian territories, is contributing to the development of the relevant bureau. you now know that mr wolfensohn will be the world bank representative in the palestinian territories to coordinate economic aid operations: we spoke about this this morning. we will have to work closely with mr wolfensohn's office and we will have to see whether the european office does not provide the appropriate framework for this cooperation to be effective and as effective as possible.
the next item is the presentation by the commission of the preliminary draft general budget – 2006 financial year.
i understand that the physical preliminary draft budget is with committee secretariat, but that other copies will be available later this week. the item is closed.
the next item is the report by valdis dombrovskis, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of parliament for the financial year 2006 (2005/2012(bud)) (a6-0106/2005).
could you please confirm whether you have received the letter from the president of parliament in reply to the complaints you raised? if not, i will send an usher around with a copy of it.
the commissioner for the next debate has not arrived. otherwise, i would not have allowed this exchange. the president has written to mr martin. the letter states that the objections that mr martin raised were not concerned with linguistic problems, but concerned the substance of each amendment. given that, the president believes that the decision made by the chairman of the committee to proceed with the vote was in line with the rules of procedure and past practice. since mr martin has indicated that he intends to raise this again tomorrow, i suggest that he follows that procedure. i do not want to pursue this now. i should like to add, mr martin, that i hope i did not hear you accuse the chairman of the committee of misrepresenting what happened. you must be very careful about what you say. the interpretation i heard suggested that you were suggesting that he was lying. you must not say that. the secretary-general has listened with great attention to the interventions of all colleagues. i am very grateful to you. that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at noon.
the next item is the oral question to the commission by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on institutional aspects of the european external action service (b6-0233/2005).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the new arrangements in the field of foreign relations provided for in the constitutional treaty present an opportunity for the european union to strengthen the efficiency and coherence of its external action. that is one good reason why the constitutional treaty should, hopefully, be ratified. in particular, we need to bring together as far as possible the two pillars of the union's external action: community external relations and the common foreign and security policy. that will increase our impact, strengthen our voice and help us to promote our european values and interests worldwide. for this reason, the commission supports the creation of the double-hatted union minister for foreign affairs. in fact, the commission proposed this idea to the convention. it is a logical and necessary improvement of the structure created by the maastricht and amsterdam treaties. the future minister, building on his experience as high representative, will at the same time be a vice-president of the commission. as a member of the college, he will have access to community competences and to the tools of the community method, which will be essential for his tasks. it follows that we are strongly in favour of the creation of an effective european external action service to enable the minister/vice-president to do his job effectively in full respect of community procedures. the constitution confirms the commission's important responsibilities in foreign affairs, including its role in external representation of the union and in the execution of the budget. it enhances its role of coordination and coherence in the different areas of external policy, and this will be the special responsibility of the minister/vice-president. under the constitution, as under the present treaty, the commission will implement the budget under the scrutiny of parliament. the rights of parliament will have to be respected, both as budgetary authority for the operational and administrative budget and in its role in multiannual programming. president barroso and high representative solana have agreed to work closely together. as you know, the future proposal for the establishment of the services will be made by him as minister and decided by the council after consulting parliament and obtaining the consent of the commission. the commission, including the minister/vice-president, will seek to preserve and promote the community method, which has proved its capacity to work and achieve good results in external relations. more generally, the commission will be active and vigilant in safeguarding the institutional balance. member states have started to discuss the issues concerning the establishment of the european external action service and are beginning to understand the complex issues involved. a process of reflection and comprehension is continuing in capitals, notably on the status of the future service. there is a general agreement that it should be of a sui generis nature, but there are differing ideas as to what this could mean in practice. let me say a word on the question of the administrative status of the new service in relation to the commission and council, which is a key point in the draft resolution of the committee on constitutional affairs. the various issues concerned are still under discussion, so it is too early to give a definitive answer. the various requirements imposed by the constitution, for instance regarding the inclusion of officials from the commission, council and national diplomatic services, will have to be met. the responsibility of the commission for the execution of the budget and in relation to community policies should be preserved. at the same time, duplication should be avoided. synergies and efficiency should guide the preparations; stronger and more coherent external action should be the guiding principle. the next step will be a joint progress report to be submitted by the high representative and the commission to the european council in june. in this context, the views of parliament are important, and i am therefore pleased to participate in your debate today. i conclude by repeating that we, in the commission, share the objective of parliamentarians to safeguard and enhance the community method, and the role of the commission and parliament in this process. at the same time, i believe that we share with you the aim of creating new structures that can really contribute to improving the effectiveness, coherence and influence of the union's policies and actions in the world. naturally, there are still uncertainties on various sides: parliament, the commission, the council secretariat and member states all have their concerns. but we believe that the chances and opportunities for the union and its institutions can, in the end, overcome those concerns. we should use this opportunity to make progress towards a stronger and more effective european foreign policy.
commissioner, we began the debate without you. perhaps in your reply at the end of the debate, you could make some reference to the fact that you were late and explain why that was so. since you are responsible for relations with the european parliament, this would be helpful.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the setting-up of the external action service is extremely important, but it is also a very tricky thing to do successfully. succeed, and we will have achieved functional integration on the ground in third countries, whose greater efficiency will not only project the interests of the union more effectively across the globe, but will also percolate up to the analysis and planning level in brussels. the foreign minister needs a first-class service to fuel him with the resources and intelligence he needs and also to recruit and train a diplomatic service that is properly european. i welcome the commissioner’s cautious statement, but it is quite clear that agreement is far from being achieved inside the council, especially between the interests of the smaller and larger member states, and some of the principal problems remain to be resolved. the commission must certainly seek to recruit the trust of the foreign ministries of the member states, but it also needs to preserve the special prerogatives and experience that it has acquired over decades across the policy spectrum, from development to the environment and, of course, including trade. parliament is clearly nervous that the president of the commission could be reduced to being the union’s minister for the interior while leaving the complete foreign dimension to the foreign minister/vice-president. that would emasculate the commission and do a great disservice to all concerned.
mr president, in answering this debate, i should like to invite the commissioner to focus on two points. one follows on from what the last speaker said. since the external action service can only have legal status and legitimacy if the constitution is approved, the commission and the council, by working to put the structure, staff and framework of the eas in place, is surely engaged in blatantly presuming the outcome of the ratification process. in this regard, can the commission tell us how much it is budgeting to spend on these presumptive and pre-emptive moves that it is taking? how much has this speculative venture cost us to date and how much is it likely to cost us in the next 18 months? secondly, could the commission spell out for the wider public its vision of how the foreign affairs of member states will be conducted once the eas is in place? specifically, is it correct to conclude that national foreign affairs will then only be able to be conducted in a manner consistent with the common foreign policy and will only be able to operate in a manner that is subservient to the eas?
mr president, the whole issue of a common community diplomacy is one about which i and my national party have serious reservations. i cannot deny that the huge clout the commission now wields from its aid activities and its monopoly on external trade brings with it an additional large international political and economic dimension as well. furthermore, given the concomitant development of the cfsp and cesdp, although ostensibly intergovernmental, there has been a rise in the international profile of the eu as an actor on the world stage. however, coming from a large country – the uk – with a proud and independent foreign policy, i oppose the proposals in the draft eu constitution, which sets up for the first time the legal personality of the eu and establishes the post of foreign minister, led by the new five-year council president. all of this is designed to create a more coercive and binding common foreign and security policy, threatening full uk policy independence in the field of foreign affairs. clearly, in the eu of 25, there are now many more small countries like mr stubb’s home country of finland facing the prospect of a six-monthly eu presidency if the constitution does not come to pass. for them, it is attractive to see the economies of scale which can come from an eu diplomatic service, including their national staff manning community delegations. there will also be financial savings from the establishment of full-blown eu embassies, in the unlikely event that the constitution comes to pass, which can replace, in part, small countries’ bilateral missions, if necessary. nevertheless, i sympathise with better and more thorough diplomatic training for relex staff sent abroad in the commission delegations. i support more formal european parliament scrutiny in the form of hearings of delegation heads of mission by the committee on foreign affairs, on appointment of this parliament. also, meps should enjoy more formalised assistance when on mission – which, it must be said, we normally do. however, i have serious worries about granting the eu more trappings of statehood, which the eas signifies, if it further reduces my country’s ability to conduct its own independent foreign and security policy when it is in our own national interest to do so.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i thank the few of us who are usually here at the night sitting of the european parliament. it can sometimes be somewhat of a challenge to follow the time planning of the european parliament. i was under the impression that this would start at 10 p.m. that is why i was here ten minutes earlier – happily together with mr leinen – and i thank you for welcoming me to the debate. i have listened with great interest to what parliamentarians have said tonight in this debate because the european external action service is a subject that arouses passions. it touches on institutional and constitutional issues of fundamental importance; the creation of a union minister of foreign affairs, who will at the same time be a vice-president of the commission, is a key innovation in the institutional architecture of this european union. it brings close together the two pillars in the field of foreign affairs – the community method and the intergovernmental method. this two-hatted minister will have tasks of different kinds. that is why the creation of this service is such an important and difficult challenge. i shall comment briefly on a few issues that were raised. to mr van den berg, i would say that development policy is and will remain a key component of european union policies and an important asset for europe in the world and in the context of the constitution. development policy is not subordinate to other policies. it retains its special status in the frame of the community method, but all the policies need to be better integrated in a coherent foreign policy concept. this will strengthen, not weaken, the effectiveness of the union’s development policy. i can assure mr duff that the commission is not going to be emasculated by the constitution as regards community competences. the minister and his services will be bound by commission procedures and the principles of collegiality, under the guidance of the commission’s president. i entirely agree with mr brok that we should not be defensive. for the commission, the new arrangements under the constitution offer more opportunities than risks. it is also important to underline that nothing can be decided against the commission in this field. to mr allister and others, i would say that we are not prejudging the ratification of the constitution. we are simply preparing the decision, which can only be taken after the constitution is ratified and comes into force, and after parliament has given its opinion. on the implications for the budget and for personnel, no plans or estimates or calculations have been made because we are not yet at that detailed stage of planning. parliament, as budgetary authority, will decide on all these figures later on. i think those are the principal issues raised, and i can assure you that parliament’s views will be taken into account as this dossier develops in the coming months. in particular, the resolution which the committee on constitutional affairs adopted on tuesday – which i understand will go to the plenary session in two weeks’ time – is a contribution which must be taken into account, not only by the commission but by member states and the council as well. we expect further technical work to continue in the second half of this year, so that decisions of principle can be taken in the course of next year when the ratification of the constitution is completed. parliament will be formally consulted on the proposal regarding the minister at an appropriate stage, so tonight’s debate will be followed by others in which parliament can amplify its views in the light of progress on which the house will be kept informed. i shall conclude by repeating that we in the commission are conscious of the concerns of parliamentarians to safeguard and enhance the community method and the role of the commission and parliament in this process. i know this is something that mr brok is concerned about. we share with you the aim of creating new structures which can really contribute to improving the effectiveness, coherence and influence of the union’s policies and actions in the world.
we will check on the information that you were given, commissioner. in my book an attractive woman is always allowed to be late. with the exception of one member who spoke before you arrived, commissioner, all the members who spoke in the debate are still present. that is unusual.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i just wish to say that it is important to understand that we are not yet at the negotiating stage. we are still at the preparatory stage, where we look at all the technical details. it would be unfortunate to lock ourselves into negotiating positions now. there is too much technical and preparatory work to be done before that. as i said earlier, we will keep parliament informed of our progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in brussels on thursday, 26 may.
the next item is the report by javier moreno sánchez, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the assessment of the doha round following the wto agreement on 1 august 2004 (2004/2138(ini)) (a6-0095/2005).
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i thank mr moreno sánchez for his work on this issue, but i think it will come as no surprise to him that, unfortunately, our group cannot support his report as it stands. while there are some good parts, highlighting the aims of sustainable development and poverty eradication, these are sadly undermined by the overall direction of the report, which is an uncritical endorsement of deregulated free trade as the principal means of achieving those goals. the assumption still seems to be that more trade automatically equals more growth, which automatically equals more poverty reduction, yet the reality on the ground is quite different and, as the recent undp least developed countries report makes clear, greater integration of some of the poorest countries into the international trading system has generally not led to poverty reduction amongst the poorest people. another assumption underpinning the report is that, if only the wto’s critics understood the institution more, then somehow we would mysteriously fall in love with it, or, as the report puts it, ‘the wto must provide adequate information and explanations to civil society [...] in order to avoid the process of globalisation and the role played by the wto being widely misunderstood and misrepresented’. quite frankly, this is unhelpful and patronising nonsense. increasingly, large sections of civil society know exactly what the wto is about, and they know precisely how damaging the process of economic globalisation can be. what we need is not a cosmetic public relations exercise but a fundamental, thoroughgoing reform of the institutions and the rules of world trade so that sustainability and equity are genuinely put at their heart. now to some of the detail: our group has retabled its original amendment on commodity prices. falling commodity prices is one of the single greatest reasons why poorer countries do not get a fairer deal out of world trade. as many as 43 developing countries depend on a single commodity for more than 20% of their total export revenues. if prices for the 10 most important agricultural commodities exported by developing countries had risen in line with inflation since 1980, those exporters would have received around usd 112 billion more in 2002 than they actually did, which would have been twice the level of official development assistance. frankly, i find it extraordinary that the committee on international trade, which prides itself on saying that trade should support poverty eradication, could have rejected an amendment which sought action on stabilising commodity prices. i hope that the plenary will support us on that tomorrow. we have also tabled an amendment on the commission mandate. it is hard to imagine what justification the commission can possibly have for working on a mandate that is six years old and which, therefore, fails to reflect any of the important changes that have happened since it was agreed. perhaps mr mandelson could tell us what that justification is because, from an institutional perspective, we cannot pretend that, after two out of the last three ministerials ended in collapse, we are dealing with business as usual. we cannot ignore the resistance of many countries in the south to embark on more and more new competences for the wto. now that a new commission is in office and as the new wto ministerial approaches, we should give a sign to the international community that europe reflects these changes and is able to learn from the mistakes made in both seattle and cancún.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like straight away to endorse the sentiments of the last speaker. i know exactly the point he is making about water and other essential public services. nothing that will be done in this round, and certainly no part of the policies that the commission pursues, will infringe or endanger those basic interests and requirements of life. i can assure you of that. if i can go back to something that mr rübig said earlier when he talked about the need for the round to end in a sound minimum compromise, he is right. it sounds as if he is looking forward to a round that ends without ambition. that is not what he meant. to achieve a sound minimum compromise is the hardest thing. standing here responding to this debate tonight, that end looks a long way off. but it is coming towards us. i say that for two reasons. first of all, the negotiating authority and mandate of the united states will not continue indefinitely to sustain the life of this round. that is something we need to bear in mind. secondly, there is such a thing as negotiating fatigue. i am beginning to see some signs of fatigue creeping in, an impatience, a desire to get to the end in order to move on. i think that impatience is healthy. i hope it is healthy, and i hope that the sort of negotiating fatigue that we are starting to see will encourage people to show their cards a little bit more, to project to the end game in this round, to see how, when all the parts are fitted together, we will see a round that ends genuinely in wins all round for people, but not least and in particular, for those members of the wto who are most in need of a successful and ambitious end to this round. bearing in mind some of the contributions that have been made, for example, by caroline lucas and mr graefe zu baringdorf, i respect entirely where you are coming from in the remarks that you make, but i profoundly disagree with you in your rejection of the premises and basic principles of the international trading system. i hope you will forgive me when i recall the enormous benefits that the richer and well-off countries have derived from the international trading system. now that we have done so well, now that developed countries are so well off, and now that we in europe are doing so well after decades of open trading, your approach seems to me simply to want to knock the ladder away for the rest of the world to catch up. and i reject that. i think it is a rather self-defeating approach to make. of course trade is not some magic wand. of course trade is not the answer to the development needs and requirements of every poor and vulnerable country. but equally, we have to recognise that no country has made itself prosperous or better off by cutting itself off from the rest of the world. that is at the heart of your prospectus. i agree that access to markets is not enough in itself. you have to help poor countries produce products, increasingly higher value-added products, to enable them to trade profitably in the global economy. simply opening your markets is not an end in itself. enabling people to produce and supply into those markets is the crucial point, and was at the heart of mrs martens’ remarks at the opening of this debate. i strongly agree with her when she identifies preference erosion as such a problem for many single commodity-dependent developing countries. it is a very difficult thing and is a huge challenge for us in europe to deliver effective help and assistance to countries which are highly dependent on single products. when we talk about the reform of sugar, raised earlier in the debate, we know that we have a responsibility not only to manage and bring about that reform in the interests of the people we represent, or the people you represent in this parliament and whose interests i reflect also, but we also have to make sure that the assistance in adjustment and restructuring that we deliver to poorer, less well off developing countries, for whom sugar is absolutely central, not only to their economy, but to the fabric of their society. such commodities are a lifeblood for countries and we know the obligations and responsibilities that we have to such countries. agriculture is without doubt the most complex and challenging subject of negotiation in this round. i agree with mr daul that we cannot place all the weight of this round on agriculture. i think i made that clear in my opening remarks and i certainly accept his view that agriculture must not foot the bill for the all the other sectors. i want to ensure that we look to the long term in this round – yes, including after i have ceased being a commissioner. i do not look forward to that as an early prospect, but one day others will take over and you are absolutely right. the actions we take now and the negotiations we undertake in this round, have to ensure that there is a sustainable future for european agriculture. we must not put that at risk, we must not put it in jeopardy and nothing that i or the commission do in the course of this round will create such a risk. that means, too, that adjustments have to be managed and reform and change embraced; of course, we must. of one thing i am sure: you cannot just leave agriculture to the free market. you cannot do that in terms of the security of the food supply, but also the importance and the weight you attach to sustaining rural communities, which are an essential feature and component of our way of life, of european civilisation. when we talk about agriculture and the interests of people who live in rural communities, their interests in this round, for me it highlights the importance all the time of explaining, justifying – i think you used the term ‘advertising’ – what we are doing in this round. advertising in the literal sense is what we need to do. we have to advertise the huge potential benefits and prize that is in our grasp in the successful and ambitious completion of this round. we have to advertise the rationale for our negotiations; they are complex, they are difficult for the ordinary citizen to grasp – heaven knows, i find them difficult to grasp sometimes and i am the trade commissioner. it should not be taken as a given, as an assumption, that what we do in this round we can simply deliberate on and decide behind closed doors and pass down to a grateful public at the end of the day, as if that is the beginning and end of involving civil society. i say this, too, not only because i am very conscious of the sensitivities, fears and anxieties that these negotiations highlight – trade is a very political subject indeed – but because it also highlights the important role of parliamentarians: members of this parliament, but not just this parliament, members of all national parliaments are involved as well. that is for two reasons, first of all, parliaments in their work, and the scrutiny offered by parliamentarians, puts pressure on people like me to explain and justify what we are doing. i think that is very important. but, secondly, what you are doing is representing civil society in a representative and authentic way, in ways that non-governmental organisations do not always do entirely faithfully. when you offer that scrutiny and when you offer that representativeness, what you are doing to this process is conferring legitimacy on it. legitimacy that it would not otherwise have if it were simply conducted in secret without any transparent way of working, without any accountability for what we are doing and saying during the course of these negotiations. so i agree with those members who have emphasised the need for parliament and parliamentarians to have a role. it is true that if we had a constitution, the role and access of members of this house to this process would be formalised. nonetheless, without the constitution so far, we still have a very good relationship, we were able to achieve across the range of what we do informally what in time i hope and predict we will be able to cement formally as well. when it comes to issues like services – water and other public services – which, in particular excite anxieties amongst the general public, then it is right that the general public, the citizens, are able to see in their democratic forum, in this parliament, their anxieties and their concerns being properly aired and properly represented. that is why i am grateful to those tonight who have raised the issue of services and have done so in such a constructive way. i hope that meets the point of those who have emphasised, quite rightly, the role of civil society in this. it also touches on, and i fully accept, the future role and performance of the wto itself, as mr papastamkos has raised in his own contribution. to those who attack the wto more sharply, i would say this: i do not know of an international institution, i do not know of a better form of global government that exists in our world today that matches the wto in its democracy – yes, each member of the wto, big or small, powerful or weak, has the same vote and it is one vote. and it takes decisions, and it makes findings against the most powerful in the world. it is the only international institution, it is the only organ of global governance that i know that can challenge and compromise the sovereignty or the united states and get away with it. it is the only organisation i know that can enforce its decisions, arbitrate between countries, however mighty and powerful they may be in the international community. i think that is something to celebrate and applaud and it is something, in my view, that we should build on rather than condemn. i am sorry i have not responded to all the questions that have been raised. but i want to emphasise this point in conclusion: there is a genuine need for us to put development at the heart of this round; it is absolutely central to doha and its founding values. those who argue, as some have done in their contributions tonight, that the capacity to trade is crucial, i wholeheartedly agree with you. it means overcoming barriers at ports, enabling trade to be facilitated. that is why that part of our negotiations, in my opinion, is so important. it is about the ability to get goods to market and to meet standards, which is why aid for trade is so important. yes, our sps standards, those standards that protect the health and safety of european citizens and consumers, are very important and we should uphold them; our citizens – people you represent – would expect us to do so. but, equally, we have to understand that for many in developing countries, these standards look like barriers. these high standards of health and consumer protection look like protectionism to the outside world. they are not, but it places a great obligation on us, not only to maintain the integrity of our standards, but actively to go out and help and deliver assistance to poorer countries to enable them to meet those standards, meet those requirements, rather than simply shrink away from them and in the process, taking their goods and what they offer to our markets with them. let me finish on this point. i agree that the common agricultural policy is a bit of a problem in some ways, it is a great necessity, a source of life and livelihood and very important in sustaining our rural communities in very many ways. but what are the problems we have in the common agriculture policy? the cap is really not responsible for the problems of world poverty today. europe offers the most open markets in the world. the tendency of some to turn the common agricultural policy into some sort of devil incarnate, as far as developing countries are concerned, is misconceived and misplaced. of course it needs reform, and if i can just make the point about family farms to mr ó neachtain, i want to protect small farmers, too, but let us remember in the context of our discussions about the future of the common agricultural policy – and i think i am right in saying this – that 75% of cap payments go to farmers with above-average incomes. so when we are talking about protecting small farmers and when we are talking about protecting the incomes and livelihoods of some of the less well off people you represent in parliament, let us also remember that they too need reform of the common agricultural policy. yes, preserving the european model of agriculture, but not preserving the cap in aspic for all time. it can, and should, work even better than it does for the people who are most in need. in conclusion, if we can reach broad agreement at doha, at hong kong and after, it will be a huge achievement for the world. it will enable us to complete a round that has stretched over the life, not just of one or two, but of three commissions. it is a huge prize, a great prize that is in our grasp. that is why, in my view, however taxing and however vexing this round is, we certainly should not give up, and nor will we. there is a huge amount to achieve for the most needy and the most deserving in our world, as well as countless millions of our own fellow citizens. there is a lot at stake, a lot to play for and we are going to proceed on that basis towards eventual success. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– mr president, clearly there are very real concerns about the impact of china on other players in the international trading system. we have already heard about the impact of the surge in textile imports on the eu and the devastation some eu producers face as a result. but let us not forget the impact on other developing countries. china’s deflationary pressure is already driving down wages right across the developing world and pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in a bid to remain competitive at all costs. in the philippines, for example, the government has ruled that its law on the minimum wage would not longer apply to the clothing industry. in bangladesh, the government recently announced that it would increase the number of authorised overtime hours and reduce the restrictions on women’s night work. chinese workers themselves do not necessarily have much to gain either, facing seven-day working weeks, very low wages, appalling health and safety hazards and no trade unions. we are looking here at a downward spiral of social and environmental standards; certainly minimum international standards might help stem that downward spiral. it is most important for this debate not just to focus on this or that sector, textiles today or footwear or machine components tomorrow. what we are looking at here is a systemic problem. it is a challenge posed by a country that has entered the international trading system not just with a comparative advantage but with potentially an almost absolute advantage in just about everything. it is complacent and patronising to assume that europe and the west can keep a monopoly on innovation and high-tech while china simply does the manufacturing. chinese graduates are also moving up the value-added chain. very soon we may need to face the possibility that there could be very little that europe could produce that china cannot produce more efficiently. the old assumption that while the eu and the industrialised countries keep the leading edge in knowledge-intensive industries while developing nations focus on lower-skill sectors, is now open to huge debate. the response to the challenge posed by china needs to include a thorough reassessment of the assumptions that have underpinned international trade theory up until now. we need to look again at the old ideas dating from david ricardo onwards that comparative advantage always works in everybody’s best interests. i hope the commission will act swiftly on textiles. i would also like to hear what the commissioner plans to do about these longer-term systemic issues. we need a more balanced view than this oral question suggests. we should be looking at some of the impacts of liberalisation on china itself, because there is ample proof to suggest that many of the poorest people in china face significant losses themselves, particularly in the agricultural sector, as a result of china’s accession to the wto. so let us have a more balanced view; a view that looks into the future as well.
mr president, if commissioner mandelson had come to this chamber in february and said ‘i am now going to implement the safeguard clauses in the textile agreement’ he would have been a very popular man; he would have won lots of applause in the house, but he would also have been very wrong. i believe that his approach is absolutely admirable. he has managed to resist the pressure on him to act precipitately. the approach that the commission is taking is correct in terms of making sure that we have all our facts marshalled, that any action we take can be legally justified and, if there is a legal case for taking action, that action will be taken. that is the right approach. an alternative approach would have resulted in the eu being accused of being protectionist, it would have damaged our relations with china itself and, above all, it would have sent a very bad signal for the doha development round. so his approach is correct. i should like to add one caveat, however. the news today that america’s balance of payments has surprisingly improved might be good news for america, but underlying that there is a clear indication that imports from china have dropped dramatically and that the decline in chinese imports includes a 21% reduction in textile imports. i do not want europe to be seen as a soft touch. i do not want china to think that it has to respond to american pressure, but not to european union pressure. so, if the statistics and facts justify eu action, i am sure the commissioner will agree that he will have to take that action and send a very strong signal to china. on other issues, i hope that the commissioner – and i was pleased to hear his comments on this – will keep up pressure on china in terms of intellectual property rights. the chinese justification that it is all too complicated, that the difference between regional, national and local structures makes it impossible for china to implement wto rules, just does not wash because china can do it when it comes to protecting chinese intellectual property. china should also be made to do it in relation to european intellectual property. it is good news that china is part of the wto. it is good news that china has to respect rules. it is our job to make sure, in the long term, that it sticks to those rules.
mr president, this report claims that the commission has a political responsibility to support ratification of the constitution. however, it also calls for jesuitical schools propaganda and using british taxpayers’ money to support the ratification process. mrs wallström told this chamber on tuesday evening that people will get what she chose to call ‘information’ about the constitution, but i doubt it will point out, as eminent constitutional lawyers already have, that the constitution totally reverses the relationship between the eu and the member states. whenever before did a sovereign nation permit outsiders to write and impose a new constitution on them, except after defeat in war? nor, i doubt, will the british be reminded that, in our country, the state draws power from, and answers to, the people. in the european union, the state now seeks to exist in its own right and have the people answer to it. nor will it remind the uk that our rights and freedoms are our birthright. they are not in the gift, or at the discretion, of a passing parade of political nonentities. the proposed constitution has done us a great service: it has crystallised the threat. we are beyond discussing legislation, and it is time you recognised that you are seeking to become masters in someone else’s house, and that is intolerable.
mr president, communication is a two-way process. i sit on the committee on culture and education, which, through its rapporteur, will of course dutifully produce a report for us all to vote on. i have little doubt that the report will eventually pass through this place and find its way onto the statute books of every member state. is anybody listening – here, in this chamber, or out there, in the real world? no one out there can affect that process; no one in here can originate or terminate reports that come our way, so why should anybody care? but the commission wants them to care, so it decides to spend millions of euros on propaganda – for that is exactly what this is. paragraph 40 summarises the eu strategy of deception and propaganda. in one breath it is declared that the union’s institutions have a duty to inform citizens clearly and objectively about the proposed constitution, yet in the same paragraph it is decreed that these same institutions have a political responsibility to support ratification. how, then, can objectivity figure when the final objective has already been decided? and you wonder why the eu is held in such contempt! my colleagues in ukip and i will not be supporting the ratification of the constitution or this shameful report, which admits the true problem but is designed to overcome it by propaganda and lies. i have said before, if the eu is the answer it must have been a silly question: that much you can communicate! (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i wish to raise a point of order under rule 130, 152 or 166 with regard to the delay which is being caused today by the debate. i do not wish to delay this house for long, because delay is the problem. however, how much longer are we to go on fixing times for votes, which today was to be noon and then became 12.10 p.m. and is now going to be 12.20 p.m.? this house should operate properly and within the rules. (applause) today there is a strike at strasbourg airport and many members are unable to make proper travel arrangements. the cash office tells me that upwards of 150 members, each strasbourg part-session, are losing half a day’s pay because they have to leave early to catch their only flight. i ask that the bureau of this parliament consider bringing the votes forward on a thursday so that we may vote in time to catch aeroplanes.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have voted in favour of this motion which commemorates the suffering of the millions who died at the hands of nazi tyranny. we fully endorse gratitude expressed in the motion for those who gave their lives in the liberation of europe. in particular, we give thanks for the bravery and sacrifice of the millions of british men and women who, under the leadership of winston churchill, played such a crucial part in liberating so many people. we endorse the motion's recognition of the freeing of the peoples of central and eastern europe from the yoke of communism and their fight for liberty. the enlargement of the european union to include the former communist states is something british conservatives have long sought. their role in our future is of vital importance. however, we requested a number of separate votes in this motion where the text refers to "european integration", a term associated with political integration. british conservatives acknowledge that the eu has made a significant contribution to peace among the nations of our continent. but, we believe that the eu should develop as a partnership of independent nation states, not as a single federal entity.
in writing. whilst we wish to commemorate the end of the second world war in europe, this document amounts to a re-write of history, even stating in the title that world war 11 ended on 8th may 1945, which it did not as the world still faced japan. the addition of propaganda that the eu is somehow involved in the subsequent peace is objectionable to me and to the seven members of my family who fought in that war against the axis. i note that on the schedule this resolution was entitled "future of europe" whereas the actual resolution is entitled "60th anniversary of the end of the second world war on 8 may 1945". the ep should be specific when making resolutions. for the above reasons, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. whilst we wish to commemorate the end of the second world war in europe, this resolution amounts to a re-write of history, even stating in the title that world war ii ended on 8 may 1945, which it did not as the world still faced japan. ukip meps have therefore felt obliged to vote against this resolution.
in writing. while the resolution has many positive points, for which i voted in favour, there are significant omissions and false emphases. the victory of 1945 would not have happened but for the steadfastness and courage of the united kingdom and the british empire fighting on alone and holding the german forces at bay for over a year after the fall of france. the soviet communists were, of course, allies of the nazis for the first 20 months of the war. after the war, the freedom of the west was guaranteed by the continuing engagement of us forces, through nato, in the security of europe. the united kingdom contributed disproportionately to the success of this enterprise. and we should not underestimate the enormous contribution of certain key, resolute individuals - margaret thatcher, ronald reagan and pope john paul ii - to the eventual collapse of soviet tyranny. the anniversary of the end of the war should not be used as another opportunity to eulogise the role of the eu, a project with some profoundly undemocratic aspects and which is heading in the wrong direction. the process of european integration is driven by a small political class and is certainly not "the result of a free decision by the people".
in writing. the agreement reached in geneva, july 2004 was vital for keeping the doha development round on track. however, the geneva agreement merely set out a roadmap. the really difficult decisions are still to be made. the eu must show serious intent with regard to ending agricultural subsidies. third countries must make concessions on market access for non-agricultural products. pressure must be removed from developing countries as regards services and the so-called singapore issues. a successful agreement on world trade this december in hong kong could do much to reduce poverty and despair in the world.
in writing. the implementation of the european union's information and communication strategy is of the greatest importance given that public awareness of eu matters has in the past often been affected by a lack of consistency, particularly in member state government dissemination of information, and by polemical reporting in some sections of the press. i shall be recommending to my national delegation colleagues that they abstain on the overall vote for a number of reasons including the section of the report concerning ratification of the european constitutional treaty. this must primarily be a matter for each member state to decide. it is by its very nature a controversial issue and public opinion could be unduly influenced one way or the other if it were felt that pressure were being exerted from non member state sources.
in writing. i welcome this report and the rapporteur's recognition of the importance of a more effective communication strategy. i am pleased to see the commission recognising the need to improve communication with citizens and agree with the rapporteur that it is vital europe be bought closer to its citizens. this is particularly pertinent in light of the continued decline in european parliament election turn-outs, reaching a record low of 45.7% in 2004. a more effective communication strategy will do much to counter the euro-myths propagated throughout the eu.
author.– i represent scotland, on the north-west frontier of our european continent. we recreated our scottish democracy in 1999 with the establishment of the scots parliament, when it was reconvened by my party president and former member of this house, winnie ewing, with the words: 'the scottish parliament, adjourned in 1707, is hereby reconvened'. so why am i raising the subject of togo and the situation there within this house? because my internationalist party is appalled by injustice wherever it occurs, and it is up to us within this house to shoulder our global responsibilities. since 1999, other countries across europe have rediscovered democracy. ukraine, georgia and others have looked to the eu for inspiration, guidance and support, as they have stepped towards democracy. therefore, it is all the more important that our european union does not lapse into double standards. my group and i fear that in the case of togo the eu could be on the verge of doing precisely that. i would refer you to our motion for a resolution and i commend it to you. last month's presidential election in togo, on 24 april, has been marred by allegations of massive vote fraud, even including allegations that almost a million phantom voters were created, swelling the ranks of those eligible to vote by one third. the response of the eu to this, and to the resulting deterioration within togo itself, is in marked contrast to the inspirational response of this house and our european union to the situation in ukraine. in a statement last friday, our european commissioner, mr michel, said that the eu would be watching to see whether togo complied with pledges it made last year to respect human rights and public liberties. my group says that we need to do more than watch. our resolution sets out rational, reasonable, sensible and constructive measures, which we in the eu could take to support togo. i am glad the commission is committed to watch. what my group wants to know is: what is it going to do?
mr president, i should like to amplify the point made by mr swoboda, as the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged europe has also been withdrawn from the agenda because translation was not completed. i wish to confirm that translation was not completed and to emphasise to the house that a number of reports are now being withdrawn for this reason. mr president, will you investigate why this is happening so frequently to members across this house? i request that the debate and the vote on the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged europe take place in the june i part-session in the presence of the council.
mr president, it is nice to hear that the rapporteur is said to have withdrawn his report. in fact he found out about it last night at 9.15 p.m.! surely that is not usual in this house, but then perhaps we should expect anything. or perhaps it is truer that we have had to make way for the vote of censure today and therefore legislative business comes second in this regard. it is clearly a problem for this house. as we know, we have to move this legislation into an important phase; the next meeting of ecofin can only be held on 7 june, so it will be a very close vote indeed. i hope that your services will take that into account when you next consider moving legislative items on the agenda. (applause)
mr president, this is not specifically about our agenda for this mini­session but a matter that affects our work generally and therefore the june i part-session. many of us suffered disruption to our flights out of strasbourg on the thursday of the may i part-session. could i ask you what steps you have taken to discuss this with the french government and the authorities at strasbourg airport to try to ensure that we have smooth and uninterrupted travel to and from strasbourg? many of us go to strasbourg under protest in the first place, and the fact that it cannot even be ensured that we can get there and back properly is a matter of grave concern. so, could you please tell us what steps you have taken to ensure that we have trouble­free travel next time? (applause)
author.– mr president, i wish to say to mr barroso that it is nice to see everyone here today. it has taken some time to organise this get-together. i am conscious that many of the commissioners would much rather be in france campaigning for a ‘yes’ vote. however, they are here for a very simple reason: i wrote to all of them on 3 february asking what free holidays and hospitality they had received since becoming european commissioners – but answers came there none! luckily, the die welt newspaper has produced a series of revelations. it informed us that mr barroso had enjoyed a cruise aboard a luxury yacht owned by spiro latsis, who has done business with the eu institutions for many years, and whose lamda shipyards, just one month after this holiday, received the green light from the european commission for a ten-million-euro grant. just last week a latsis company – the aegean motorways group – was put on a shortlist of two for the lucrative athens to thessaloniki motorway project. i now see that even within the european commission itself, the head of the bureau of european policy advisers, mr sidjanski, also speaks for the latsis foundation. thank goodness for die welt! we also learned that mr mandelson enjoyed a holiday with the lobbyist peter brown, and that he also went on a luxury yacht owned by the microsoft co-founder, paul allen. last november, at president barroso’s inauguration, i asked of this commission: ‘would you buy a used car from them?’. i suppose i should have said ‘a luxury yacht’! what fair-minded person could think that the commission should police itself in this regard? i have not accused mr barroso or any of the commissioners of any wrongdoing, but it is a case of caesar’s wife; it is a case that you have to be seen to be above suspicion. however, mr barroso’s reaction was one of denial. he stated in his letter – when it finally arrived – that ‘hospitality is a normal fact of private life’. he obviously has a better circle of friends than me, but no matter. was the relationship with mr latsis really purely personal? was there really no conflict of interests? if that is the case, perhaps mr barroso could tell me why he resigned the maritime portfolio shortly thereafter? i suggest that he did possibly feel compromised. i hope that mr barroso will make some concessions today. we all hope that he will. however, he should remember that what we are asking for is full disclosure. as long ago as 1961, president kennedy introduced a code of this type into the white house. it can be done and it should be done! by ignoring my simple request and by maintaining that these free holidays do not constitute a conflict of interests, mr barroso has put himself in an unenviable position. when in a hole, one should stop digging, and i therefore ask him to give us full disclosure. however, none of this would have happened if it had not been for the bravery of 77 members of this house. these independently minded people have been subject to very unpleasant threats and bullying. mr president, with your permission and pursuant to rule 141(4), i give way to my colleague, mr helmer, to put a question to me. (mixed reactions)
author.– thank you, mr president! nonetheless, there has been a lot of bullying going on. the leaders of the four big groups are so blinded by their belief in european integration that they simply cannot accept any criticism, particularly when it comes from dreaded eurosceptics like me. in fact, there are plenty of people on this list who will vote ‘yes’ to the constitution and who believe in the european project. it is simply a question of having this parliament do its job! what is the european parliament for? it cannot initiate legislation and it cannot repeal legislation. what it can do is hire and fire the bosses. it can hold to account the commission: – the government of europe, as i keep being told. i contend that this parliament has failed and that it is the leaders of the four big groups who are in fact the guilty parties in this matter. it happens time and again. last november, when i revealed that commissioner barrot had recently received a criminal conviction for his part in an embezzlement case, what happened? i was attacked; i was called a hooligan; i was told i had behaved like a football supporter. however, all i had done was tell the truth! in that episode, and in this one, mr schulz will say ‘something must be done’ and, like the grand old duke of york, he marches his ten thousand men up the hill, only to get a phone call from gerhard schröder and march them back down again! i suppose that there is great irony in all this in that, as a very committed eurosceptic, i have been asked to lead this charge today. however, this is not an argument about whether the eu is a good thing or a bad thing. all we, the signatories, want is transparency and proper governmental procedures. we also want the european parliament to stand up and to do its job for once! (applause)
mr president, with your permission, i rise under rule 141 to put a question to mr farage. i wonder whether he agrees with me that the pressure exerted by the larger groups to have signatures withdrawn from the motion of censure was an affront to democracy and transparency, and brought shame and disrepute on this house? does he agree with me that it was particularly discreditable for mr poettering to bring such pressure to bear on the british conservatives, given that we were elected on a manifesto commitment to oppose fraud and corruption? finally, does he agree that it was inappropriate for the leader of the british conservatives to demand withdrawal of conservative signatures under the threat of ‘very serious consequences’?
mr president, i agree with what mr helmer has just said, which i am sure is a surprise to everyone. (laughter)i wish to thank him for illustrating so clearly the kinds of bullying tactics that have been employed. frankly, the leaders of the four main groups should be ashamed of themselves for the way they have behaved. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of the democrats and the liberals in this house, i would like to say to the signatories of this motion of censure: you are ridiculous. you're supposed to say "i accuse". mr farage, mr de villiers you are neither emile zola nor the other, far from it. this motion is just a ploy to discredit the european commission. what is the real issue for those who present it? it is not transparency because if it were, the signatures of at least four british sovereignists who have refused to publish their financial interests on the internet would not be at the bottom of the motion. (applause) i would like to thank the signatories of this motion of censure have only one aim: to discredit the president of the commission and at the same time the whole union. and why did they choose to do this just days before the referendums in france and the netherlands? the approach has nothing to do with what they claim: their aim is to cause the maximum embarrassment for the union before these popular consultations. (applause) i would like to thank mr barroso, you must feel rather perplexed. we started a debate about hospitality. you volunteered us the information about your holiday with mr latsis as an example: a friendship of long duration, a holiday accepted before you took office, before there was any debate about whether you might assume certain responsibilities you are now accused of abusing quite apart from the fact that there is hardly a major industry in europe which does not receive some government support. and if you had no contacts with industrialists, you'd have as few friends as mr farage! (laughter) liberals and democrats will defend accountability and transparency in all of the european union's business. it is part and parcel of a government's contract with the electorate. we are proud to have been at the forefront of the campaign for this. we all know there is a case for greater transparency. under president pat cox, under president borrell, through interinstitutional agreements with the commission, we have made, and we continue to make, progress. the commission's code of conduct was revised with the entry of your commission. it probably needs to be more explicit about the notion of hospitality. we also defend the right of members to bring a motion of censure under our rules, but such tools should be used with caution. members should beware that frivolous use such as this risks discrediting both the tool that rule 100 gives us and this house. this debate is a deflection from serious business. we must all be vigilant on matters of public accountability, but we must also let the commission get on with the job of bringing the european union's member states closer together. europe needs builders, not a demolition squad; meps who look forward, not those who look back; parliamentarians who see opportunities, not those who exploit difficulties. there is room for diversity of view about the future of the european union, provided those views are presented honestly and openly through public debate. as a recent election in the country i know best shows, when the views of the movers of this motion are presented openly, they get very, very little support. i trust that this house will give a clear answer to the signatories of today's motion. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i have listened to the debate on the motion of censure with increasing disbelief. the issue at stake here is not who lodged the motion or the motives of the independence democracy group, it is about whether the commission president is under a duty to answer questions asked of him by members of this house. the people of europe have a perception that meps and commissioners do not live up to high standards, and whether or not we like it this is the reality which we must ackowledge and remedy, not close ranks and pretend does not exist. the need for continued reform of our and the commission procedures is urgent. i deplore the motives of the independence and democracy group, but their actions could have provided an opportunity to strengthen our procedures. by attacking them rather than the problem, the leaders of the groups have missed an opportunity today.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, my group fully supports the framework agreement and the amendment by mrs berès. the framework agreement is a distinct improvement on the one we signed with the prodi commission in 2000. it strengthens the political accountability of the commission to parliament, especially through the commitment of president barroso that we see in clause 3 with respect to a loss of parliamentary confidence in an individual commissioner. with this revised framework agreement, the commission itself becomes much more parliamentary in character than it has been in the past. parliament shows itself to become far more capable and responsible for scrutinising and sustaining critically a strong executive authority. the comprehensive agreement establishes the ground rules for what promises to become a strong working relationship between us. the framework agreement certainly changes the context of commission-parliament relations from that of the previous debate on the fatuous motion of censure.
mr president, today in this house we have an illustration of the deficiency in the current procedures, with a motion of censure being necessary to try to extract information sufficient to meet suspicions about potential conflicts of interest. it was met, of course, with a predictable grovelling response by the majority in this house. yet this report itself accepts those same deficient procedures. the report tries to make much of article 2 of the framework agreement, but the flaw therein is that while it bestows on the commission president the obligation to identify and act upon conflicts of interests affecting commissioners, nothing is put in place to identify and act upon such conflicts affecting the president himself. thus the same situation which gave rise to today’s debate continues to exist unaddressed by this report. what is obviously needed is a wholly independent commissioner for standards in public life. as my second point, i take this opportunity to distance myself from the ritual obeisance to the constitution that appears in recital a. alas, this besotted committee feels it cannot speak without showing cringing deference to the ill-fated constitution, ever peddling the lie that it will deepen democracy, when in reality it is asset-stripping every nation state of more democracy and more power.
mr president, eu-russia relations are not at their most cordial at present, after a serious loss of face for russia following ukraine’s orange revolution six months ago. president putin seriously overestimated his ability to impose his chosen candidate on the ukrainian people, even if it meant rigging the election. he wrongly expected the same reaction as shown by the eu to the flawed election the previous year in azerbaijan. ukraine has now courageously sorted itself out and started out on an independent path – as has georgia – and russia, unsurprisingly, is not happy with this. neither is russia particularly pleased with the role played by the independent baltic republics with their enhanced status in foreign affairs as full eu members. the statement by president putin that they voluntarily agreed to be annexed by the soviet union is laughable. the eu remains deeply critical of the widespread atrocities in chechnya, including the extrajudicial execution of aslan maskhadov. russia, however, is fortunately now making some moves towards punishing those responsible for some of the atrocities. there remains strong appreciation of russia’s internal struggle against fundamentalism and support for the global war against international terrorism. i support a strong russia with its recognised international borders, but say ‘hands off ukraine, georgia and moldova’, and i call upon it to help solve the transnistria question. i am also deeply worried by the rise in russian anti-semitism. russia remains the eu’s strategic energy supplier and giant immediate neighbour, so we must encourage dialogue and shared values and develop the four ‘common spaces’. russia must not be allowed to turn the clock back to authoritarianism and abandon its respect for democracy and human rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, the old vienna agency has had something of a chequered career. i myself was involved in one example where a very important report on anti-semitism seemed either to have been suppressed or improperly handled by that agency, and it was my view then that far too much politics had been allowed to enter into the activities of the agency in respect of that matter. therefore, i would like to have clear assurances, with regard to the new arrangements, that first of all the new agency with these wider and different roles will be objective, that it will behave in a sensitive manner and not allow any politics to enter into its work. on top of that i would also want assurances that it will be properly accountable through parliamentary control. what disappoints me is that quite often we say this is intended, but in practice it does not occur. so this time we must insist on these provisions and insist on these matters being secured. the only other matter i would like to raise is the issue of the need for a separate gender institute. i believe that it is totally unnecessary: we always have to careful about bureaucracy. i am very satisfied that this agency will do its work in such an objective manner that it will be able to cope with the extra burdens that will be put upon it by dealing with the issues that would otherwise be dealt with by a separate institute. i congratulate mrs gál on her report and i certainly believe that with the kind of assurances that i am asking for it will have a successful start and a successful period of operation.
mr president, the proposal for an eu fundamental rights agency is the height of folly, even by the standards of this place. it also anticipates ratification of the constitution, which is unlawful. leaving aside the monumental waste of public money, it will ensure that human rights become a permanent source of conflict across member states as the bureaucrats seek to keep themselves busy. the charter of fundamental rights was included in the new constitution as one of the most misconceived documents of recent years. a passing parade of political non-entities have given themselves the power to grant rights and freedoms to other people. far worse, they have given themselves the power to remove those rights and freedoms when it suits them or their successors. these are not the actions of democrats. my rights and freedoms, mr president, are not in your gift and they are not at your discretion, they are my birthright. this charter and this proposal profoundly misunderstand the nature of human rights and they reflect this house’s obsession with social engineering.
mr president, i am pleased to follow the honourable gentleman, mr mote. with that contribution, he gives us evidence that he is an expert on political folly. as a member of ukip, he gives us a double affirmation of that. let me say mr president, that discrimination diminishes every single one of us and if we stand by and do nothing, we endorse it. that is why i welcome mrs gál’s report and the establishment of the fundamental rights agency. however, we must not make too many demands upon the agency or it will fail in the beginning. it needs to work in conjunction with the three institutions and ensure that the proposals coming from those institutions are compatible with and not in contradiction of the charter of fundamental rights and our international obligations. its focus should be within the eu, but at the same time it should have a role in the formulation of our eu association agreement. i welcome this consultation process but i will pay more heed to the concrete proposals that will follow. let me say two things. mr kirkhope, who is no longer in the chamber, said that politics should not enter the work of the agency. it seems to me that he wants to neuter the organisation before it begins. decisions to end infringement of fundamental rights must be taken in the political context and cannot be taken regardless of those consequences. indeed, some political delegations in this house have never voted in favour of non-discrimination measures. that in itself party politicises non-discrimination measures and fundamental rights. mr pęk was vehemently against this: european taxpayers will pay. if european taxpayers had not paid, we would still be under the stranglehold of the demonisation that followed the second world war and soviet domination. we must have the guts to pay for our freedoms and defend them. if mr pęk and mr mote are against it, mrs gál must have taken the right route and i recommend this report to the house. (applause)
mr president, i just want to raise a case of the need for fair treatment of someone who has been arrested in spain on an extradition warrant from morocco. i will not go into the details of the background, but it is the contention of myself, those people supporting him and the fair trials abroad organisation that he is completely innocent of any charges. briefly, he helped deliver a boat to morocco; several months later people using the boat were arrested for drug smuggling. he had absolutely nothing to do with that. however, he is detained under an extradition agreement between spain and morocco under which spain and morocco have agreed not to extradite their own nationals. how, therefore, can it be that spain could contemplate extraditing another eu national? it is surely a breach of eu law, which requires non-discrimination on the grounds of nationality. i will therefore be pursuing this with president borrell and asking him to take it up with the spanish government.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– mr president, i happen to be the chairman of the committee on which the rapporteur and mr muscat sit. i wish to begin by endorsing what mr muscat said. in our committee it is always very difficult to get interpretation into the mother tongue from even large countries – poland, hungary, the czech republic; countries that are now at the heart of our european union. however, if we cannot speak in mother tongue languages in this chamber, where it is known that we have an interest in the debate taking place, what kind of european union do we have? i just want to endorse in the strongest terms what has been said here today by mr muscat. i hope i will get injury time on mr muscat’s behalf for saying that, because i now want to make some warm remarks about the rapporteur, mr nassauer. i want to thank him for the work he has done at a time when he was enormously engaged in the reach proposals, which are now before our committee. he has taken a subject of real public relevance: the security of the citizen and how best we ensure it. he has found an effective compromise and i hope our own amendments in the imco committee, of which he is also a distinguished member, will support that. he has been able to tread the perilous path between alarmism on the one hand and complacency on the other. my main concern with the amendments we tabled was to ensure that ordinary consumers would not be disproportionately inconvenienced in carrying out financial transactions, whilst we know that we need to combat money laundering. this, of course, is not the first money laundering definition. i do not know whether thomas jefferson would approve, but the times in which we live need a balance to be struck between liberty and security. however, we do not want to exchange one category of vulnerability for another. the vulnerable citizen can be made vulnerable by excessive security measures, as well as by the processes of terrorists themselves. just at the time that our committee was describing these matters, a terrorist bank raid took place in northern ireland – the largest bank raid in the history of that province. that shows the importance today of stopping up the areas where terrorists operate and finance themselves. the various draftsmen of opinions from the different committees have all provided the expertise which was properly supportive of what mr nassauer has done. this is a compromise to which the banks, the lawyers, the accountants, the notaries and the ordinary citizen can look with confidence. i hope this dossier will, therefore, be concluded at first reading. terrorists cannot succeed unless they have the financial means with which to do so. we, however, need to measure our response to this unprecedented terrorism with the needs of the citizens’ own defences for the sake of civil liberties.
draftswoman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs.– mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr nassauer and everyone else involved in what we hope will be a first reading agreement. i was responsible for drafting the opinion of the legal affairs committee, which concentrated on two aspects: the position of lawyers and the process regarding, in particular, the review under the second directive. when i say the position of lawyers, i mean not just lawyers but also their clients and their clients’ access to justice. all of us know that parliament has received a number of petitions from bar organisations around europe. there have been legal challenges in member states and, indeed, similar legislation had to be repealed in canada because of a constitutional challenge. there are therefore concerns about the position of lawyers. it is with some sadness that we note that not all the amendments tabled by the legal affairs committee in this regard were adopted. having said that, we are happy to accept the compromises. however, with regard to the review, i asked the commissioner in a written question if the review could still go ahead. he assured me that it would be completed by 2006. i would ask him to reiterate that assurance tonight and, if possible, tomorrow morning before we vote, so that lawyers at least know their position will be subject to review.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, the fact that the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a political priority for the european union is shown by the speedy progress of this measure. the commission adopted the proposal for the third directive only about a year ago and today it is before us for decision. we have cooperated closely with the other institutions to complete it all in one reading. i pay a very sincere tribute to the skill and cooperative attitude of mr nassauer as the rapporteur. he has done a very good job. the third directive brings in limited but useful changes from the second directive. the great improvement – the theme of this directive – is the clear emphasis on a risk-sensitive approach, so that there is a ‘know-the-customer’ obligation, including identifying the true owners of companies – the beneficial owners – which is higher if there is a higher risk of tainted funds. obviously, it is necessary to apply stricter money-laundering controls in situations of higher risk, but i hope this will also mean slimming down with a simplified due diligence, as it is called, when possible. at present, there are thousands – perhaps even hundreds of thousands – of alerts of suspicious transactions every year across the eu. however, i fear that watchdogs often lose sight of the wood for the trees, and there needs to be more concentration on the really serious, suspicious transactions and breaking the criminal and terrorist financing networks. i hope that in implementing the directive it will be possible for banks to be more proportionate and targeted in their checks so that individual honest citizens trying to open a bank account are not swamped in red tape, while the arms traffickers, criminal gangs and greedy dictators slip through the net. the one, also useful, improvement is that this new directive will simplify the process, hopefully, for european citizens wanting to open a bank account in another eu country, as that bank will not have to carry out further identity checks. therefore, it reduces bureaucratic burdens on eu citizens and marks a practical step in making a reality of living in europe and crossing boundaries. finally, we reached a satisfactory solution on trusts, making clear that the widespread and valuable use of this anglo-saxon vehicle in commercial and financial markets will not be prejudiced so that the city of london can sleep peacefully at night knowing that markets like the international bond market will continue to innovate and prosper for the benefit of the european union as a whole.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i find it hard to believe that nobody questions the need for this legislation. as mr nassauer says, we do not actually have any evidence that the existing legislation works, so making it tighter is hardly justifiable at this time. the european union is going out of its way, as usual, to make life difficult for ordinary businesses and citizens, and hindering business activity. much more sinister, in my opinion, is the obligation on professional advisers not to inform their clients when they report suspicious transactions to the authorities. turning professionals into secret informers erodes trust within society and marks the beginning of a police state. a better way to address terrorism is to know who is entering and leaving our countries. alas, with the ongoing disagreements about how to police our borders and the drive for indefinite expansion of the union, the prospect of reliable border controls is becoming ever more remote.
mr president, i should just like to make an observation about the law of unintended consequences. a lot of the legislation that we adopt in this place does not actually work in the way that it should. a recent example in the united kingdom involved a female pilot, mrs starmer, who has one child and, i think, has another on the way. she took british airways to an industrial tribunal because it did not allow her to have part-time flying responsibility. british airways suggested that she did not have enough hours or experience to take on that role. i think – and i have never heard anybody suggest otherwise – that british airmanship is the best in the world, even the americans concede that. british airways, as i think you will agree, is a benchmark across the globe for high standards of airmanship. mrs starmer won at a tribunal on the basis of legislation, and nobody knows when they get on a plane whether the pilot is actually competent to fly that aeroplane, or somebody who is a young mum just having fun. i think that is a great shame.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– madam president, it gives me special pleasure to be here as draftsman of the opinion on the directive on frontal protection systems, which mrs hedkvist petersen has taken through parliament so ably. reflecting on the recommendations made by my committee, i realise that almost all of these were taken up, which is an unusual situation. we worked together on this proposal for over a year, beginning in the last parliament. one of the things that triggered my interest was that the original proposal presented by your predecessor, mr liikanen, was significantly flawed. i want to pay tribute to your team for having fundamentally reshaped it. the flaw lay in the approach to the soft bull bar. i would like to present you with a little souvenir, commissioner, in the form of a sample which i took to committee meetings to convince colleagues the proposal needed to be fundamentally revised. the original proposal would have seen such bull bars taken off the market. the testing standards were unrealistic and there were no separate provisions, as mrs hedkvist petersen pointed out, for a separate test enabling these bars to be made available on the aftermarket. as you can see, commissioner, this is a custom-designed soft bull bar far more resilient than the old type of bull bar. it is thanks to you that these new bars can be kept on the market. i also want to pay tribute to a small company in my constituency called concept mouldings, which employs 100 people making these bars and which you have kept in business. i wish to thank you on their behalf. i also want to thank you on behalf of other accessory manufacturers and on behalf of road users, who will now be able to benefit from these bars – though not too often, we hope, as we want to eliminate pedestrian collisions. it is thanks to you that this type of resilient device will now be available on the market. this overall proposal is an excellent example of how parliament can make a real contribution to practical legislative improvements when it works together with a commission that is open and sympathetic. the bulk of the work was done by mrs hedkvist petersen, with me simply acting as a catalyst, and i pay tribute to her persistence in working with your services, commissioner, to secure a first reading agreement that i am delighted to support.
madam president, i too congratulate the rapporteur after her travails and the dedication she has shown to this task, from which she has emerged with more success than her predecessor in the last parliament. she said that we ought to talk to the consumer groups in europe and see what they think. well, many of us have done so. i have a letter here, on behalf of 28 consumer groups in all of the member states, and what do they say? they ask us to vote for article 4 and for a sensible version of article 11. i heard what mrs niebler said earlier on in the debate and i was astonished by it. what in god’s name has all this to do with the lisbon process? i do not know about god – he has been around for a long time so he obviously has a healthy diet – but i know what i think and that is that the lisbon process, among other things, requires us to have well-informed consumers who make real choices which increase the marketability of the products they buy. everybody benefits from that, it is a benign circle, and to have it denounced as though it is simply an instrument of the nanny state and so on, as we have heard in the course of this debate, is absolute rubbish. i personally hope that we vote to retain article 4. we need to have some way of dealing with the misleading claims which are made, which balance one substance against another, and only tell you about the one for which the claim could be made. the only way to do that is to have some effective template from which this can be made. the commission has worked long and hard on this. i have many representatives of the food industry in my own constituency who have said that provided we just have that template within the poli bortone report, we do not then need it in mrs scheele’s proposals, we do not need it for fortification, but we should have it somewhere. and so we should. i cannot vote for this proposal tomorrow if the emasculation of article 4 takes place.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, who has had a tremendous job of work to do. recent research carried out by ‘which?’, the uk consumer association, has shown that 98 per cent of people that it spoke to want health and nutrition claims on food to be authorised so that they can be certain that the food they buy is indeed the product described on the packaging with the qualities that are attributed to that product. in my group we agree that there is a need for authorisation, not notification, because self-regulation does not work. we need an authorisation procedure and, as others have said, we need to maintain the nutrient profiles – article 4 – not least to protect children from being the targets of misleading advertising. sixteen per cent of children in the uk between the ages of two and fifteen are obese, and the problem is getting worse. this demands a very strong response. we cannot allow foods that are high in salt or sugar to be marketed as being good for children’s health. finally, we have to ensure better and clearer information for the public so that this important new legislation is as effective as possible.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to comment first of all on the broad economic policy guidelines that we are looking at. my group does not believe that economic growth automatically produces significant employment, nor does it automatically produce sustainable development. we feel that this element is too weak in the current proposals. we recognise that there are choices to be made in how we try to develop our economies and that the pursuit of competition and more liberalisation is a mistaken path if we really want to make full use of the lisbon agenda. so we welcome the reintroduction of our amendments on eco-innovation, for example, because we think that is indicative of the choices we have to make if we want to create a sustainably developed economy. we also have concerns about the research element within this particular report. we do not favour the increase in biotech research if that is going to be looking at embryo stem cell research or gmos. we equally do not accept the inclusion of nuclear energy as part of the kyoto strategy. in fact i think people would probably be extremely shocked if we did. part of the lisbon agenda is also social cohesion, a part that is often forgotten, and thus the importance of the social agenda that we are looking at. we very much welcome the practical report from mrs oomen-ruijten and the recognition of the need to use all the available talents to really tackle discrimination, whether that be in terms of the gender pay gap, discrimination against black and minority ethnic groups, or in terms of disability or age. we support the additional measures advocated in the original report. services of general interest are also crucial as a means of social cohesion and therefore we welcome the recommendation in this report on the need for a framework directive in this area. we also welcome the additional moves from the commission on the social dimension of globalisation, to which we think insufficient attention has been paid. we therefore wish for the european parliament to be fully involved in future work on that.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i shall make some remarks on the economic policy guidelines. we spend a lot of time lamenting the poor performance of the large euro economies, but are economic policy guidelines going to make them perform any better? the guidelines might be better described as a wish list. governments are urged to maintain sound fiscal policies, increase flexibility, hold down wage rises, improve competition, promote research and development and develop a strong industrial base, all worthy things that governments would like to achieve anyway, but do they need the european union to tell them so? rather than giving this advice, i have a better plan. get off the backs of individuals and businesses, scrap regulations instead of inventing new ones or tightening existing ones like the bureaucratic controls on financial transactions that we were discussing in this house last night. most of them do not work properly and all of them add costs to business and destroy jobs. unfortunately, making more rules is the only thing that these institutions are good at. if we could just leave business alone to generate wealth, the eu’s many programmes, such as caring for the environment and providing a high level of social security, might actually be affordable.
the order of the vote has been fixed for some time, but we shall take your point when we get to the relevant part of the vote. - before the vote on amendment 99:
the amendments have been tabled in due form and i shall leave it to the wisdom of the house.
mr president, i wish to notify the house that there is a mistake on the voting list as to where amendment 24 splits. we wanted to split the text so as to delete the word ‘biotechnology’. so we end after ‘preventive healthcare’.
thank you very much for your comments, mrs in 't veld, we take note of them.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are in favour of improving the relations between the european commission and european parliament and we welcome especially, the demands for greater transparency. however, some of the processes involved are still flawed with regard to the selection of commissioners and there is a greater need for accountability at this level. as a result, my colleagues and i have abstained on the final vote for this report.
in writing. i warmly welcome this move to promote equality at a european level between men and women. if a better balance is to be achieved in gender equality then we must surely be working towards the same aim at each and every level. it is important that after their end-date of 31 december 2005 the work of these two programmes be supported so that worthwhile priority themes such as equal pay, reconciling working and family life and gender roles and stereotypes can continue to receive support. therefore i agree with the rapporteur's call for adequate budgetary provision in the new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 for the purpose of financing the programme relating to the community framework strategy on gender equality and the community action programme to promote organisations active at european level in the field of equality between men and women.
in writing. i warmly welcome this move to promote equality at a european level between men and women. if a better balance is to be achieved in gender equality then we must surely be working towards the same aim at each and every level. it is important that after their end-date of 31 december 2005 the work of these two programmes be supported so that worthwhile priority themes such as equal pay, reconciling working and family life and gender roles and stereotypes can continue to receive support. therefore i agree with the rapporteur's call for adequate budgetary provision in the new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 for the purpose of financing the programme relating to the community framework strategy on gender equality and the community action programme to promote organisations active at european level in the field of equality between men and women.
in writing. i welcome this report's focus on the importance of our relationship with our close neighbour russia who is becoming ever closer with enlargement of the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that it is in both our interests that russia is integrated better within the european structures and there is a more common approach to the countries covered by our neighbourhood strategy. however, if russia is to be a member of the wto it must respect wto regulations, in particular counterfeiting and piracy of goods must be stamped out. i share the disappointment expressed by the rapporteur at the seeming reversal in russia's democratisation and its disregard for some of the principles of the osce and council of europe documents.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, i just wish to point out that question time is supposed to last an hour and a half. therefore, the kind generosity of my friend in the socialist group in reducing it to half an hour is cutting it not to half but to one third of what it should be. i should like to propose that it is kept at one hour or, as a compromise, three-quarters of an hour. question time is a very valuable institution. please do not suppress it or let it disappear.
mr president, on 28 april last year the president of france, mr jacques chirac, said ‘if a country votes against the proposed constitution, it must leave the european union’. i would like to ask, mr president, whether you have yet received the french resignation.
mr president, my reason for speaking today is to draw attention to the fact that on 19 june, in the time between this part-session and the next one, aung san suu kyi, the leader of burma’s democracy movement, will celebrate her 60th birthday. on that day she will have spent 9 years 238 days in detention. the junta in burma is now more hardline and more firmly in control than ever. aung san suu kyi’s house arrest is now more restrictive than it has ever been. she has no visitors; her phone line has been cut; she lives behind a wall of sandbags and barbed wire, patrolled continuously by armed guards and soldiers. we see no sign of change. the last resolution of this parliament on burma was very clear. we would ask the commission to seriously reconsider softening its approach to this regime, which continues to show utter contempt for human rights and democracy. aung san suu kyi is a nobel peace prize winner and a recipient of the sakharov prize of this parliament. she shows breathtaking courage. thank you, mr president, for your commitment to aung san suu kyi and to the people of burma.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to a golden opportunity for us to demonstrate relevance to the people of europe: the g8 summit at gleneagles in my country, scotland. the contribution of this house could be signing the written declaration in my name on the aims of making poverty history. at this time of cynicism about the direction of the eu, it is an opportunity for us to march in step with the people of europe. too often, eu trade policies have been the cause of problems within the developing world, not the solution. we can change this mindset and give a lead which i believe would be appreciated by the peoples of europe. this summer the world will be coming to scotland. i hope a million people come to scotland and behave themselves. if anybody from this chamber wants to accompany us on our march to make poverty history, i would be more than happy to arrange it.
mr president, for the last two years the british government has funded ‘operation scrap-it’ with gbp 7 million – eur 11 million – a year given to london boroughs to cope with the end of life vehicles directive. this programme provides a fast, london-wide removal service for abandoned cars, removing around 75 000 a year from london streets. the scheme has saved many neighbourhoods from the blight of scrapped and burnt-out vehicles littering and polluting the environment, making a real difference to the quality of citizens’ lives. however, to coincide with world environment day yesterday, the uk government made known that this funding would end in september. this would not be so bad if our government made manufacturers liable from that date, as it has the possibility to do under the directive, before manufacturers’ liability becomes mandatory in january 2007. the government has not done that, putting corporate profits before a sustainable environment. through you, therefore, mr president, i appeal to the british government to prolong the funding of ‘operation scrap-it’ to stop an environmental crisis in london.
mr president, the european constitution is dead. the french killed it, the dutch put it in the coffin and now the lid is on. but, like count dracula, eu treaties have a nasty habit of coming back to life. the constitution needs a stake through its heart. that stake could be administered by means of a british referendum, which would deliver a resounding ‘no’. it now seems, however, that the british government will deny the british people that opportunity. instead of a stake there might be an even more deadly termination, in the form of a silver bullet. that silver bullet will take the form of the disintegration of the european single currency. the eurozone is already starting to show signs of fraying at the edges. the break-up of the european single currency, which is only a matter of time, will kill political and economic integration stone dead once and for all.
mr president, it is nice to see our loony friends are in the chamber with us today. despite recent major jolts to the eu project, we still have some fairly substantial work in progress, not least the lisbon strategy. i would like, therefore, to continue my mission to name and shame member states that have not implemented some of the lisbon directives. the european parliament has passed 83 lisbon directives. sixty-three should have been implemented; only ten have been fully implemented by all member states. the european company statute directive should have been implemented by 18 october 2004, but the following countries have yet to notify the commission of their legislation implementing this directive: belgium, estonia, greece, spain, france, ireland, italy, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, the netherlands, poland, portugal and slovenia. mr president, would you write to those member states and ask them when they intend to implement the directive?
mr president, this is a question for you. you will be aware that over the last few part-sessions in strasbourg there have been any number of serious problems with flights to and from strasbourg airport. you are not listening but never mind, i shall carry on. strikes, diversions, cancellations and all sorts of other reasons have meant that meps have been seriously delayed or diverted. as the city of strasbourg and the french aviation authorities seem incapable of providing a consistent or reliable service to this great city, and in view of the clear wish of both members of the european parliament and the peoples of europe that we do not waste any more of their money, is it not time seriously to consider once and for all the future of the monthly plenary sessions held in strasbourg? this afternoon i am asking you personally what your proposals for action in this field are, both in the short term and in the long term, or is it perhaps a question you prefer to avoid?
mr president, in the light of the constitutional referendums, i would hope that at last, in this house, there might be some recognition that the eu project is seriously flawed and heading in the wrong direction. however, that is not the point i want to draw attention to. another member has already mentioned the g-8 summit, which is going to take place in edinburgh, and also the live-8 campaign, which is seeking debt relief, trade justice and increased aid for africa. however, financial measures alone cannot solve africa’s problems. if we are going to bring about real change for the better in africa, this must be accompanied by action to ensure that good governance is practised, the rule of law upheld and human rights respected. i look at the case of zimbabwe, where in march mugabe had another sham election and where, at this moment, he is involved in clearance of urban areas inhabited mainly by opposition supporters, whom he is ruthlessly suppressing. the international community is doing nothing about this. the council said that it would review sanctions in the light of the elections that took place in zimbabwe. nothing has happened. i call upon the council and the commission to take robust action against mugabe and similar dictators who are abusing the oppressed people of africa.
on behalf of the alde group .– madam president, we need this european directive first and foremost because of what the united kingdom scientific adviser has called the ‘elephant in the living room’; that is, the enormous threat posed by climate change which we largely pretend not to notice, even though it is sitting massively in front of us. we also need this directive because of a large and growly bear in our living room. that bear is the threat to our energy supply. by 2020, europe will be 90% dependent on russia for oil. already we get a quarter of our oil and half our gas from russia. the easiest way to lessen our energy dependency is by using less energy. this directive will give a clear framework in which companies dealing in energy efficiency can operate and compete. i welcome, in particular, the provisions for accurate metering and billing. in the united kingdom, the single biggest cause of consumer debt is the arrival of a sudden, enormous utility bill on the doorstep. the requirement for regular bills, based on actual consumption, will put an end to that problem. the targets in this directive are not ambitious; they are way below what is technologically possible. the advantage of sticking with these modest targets is that they are absolutely realistic and attainable. there are whispers coming from the council that higher targets might be acceptable if they were merely indicative, not mandatory. but high targets are meaningless if they are just a wish list. the incoming united kingdom presidency has declared that tackling climate change will be a top priority. it would be tragic and hypocritical if a knee-jerk reaction against making anything mandatory at a european level were to be allowed to be jeopardise that commitment on climate change. i hope that we in the european parliament will send the strongest possible message that mandatory targets on energy saving are necessary.
madam president, i welcome this directive, as it will primarily help energy users to reduce and monitor their electricity consumption. this measure will require companies to give energy consumers accurate information to allow them to regulate consumption, compare their consumption with a normal user in a similar building and in an ecologically efficient building, and assess the environmental impact of, for example, the co2 emission levels of the energy they consume. consumers deserve to have full and fair information on their energy use. the uk gas and energy watchdog, energywatch, does an excellent job in giving information to consumers. for example, if you type in your postcode on their website you can find out who is your cheapest supplier. we all know that efficiency is absolutely essential. i hope implementation of this directive will be fast-tracked in britain to make it easier for consumers to play their part in reducing energy consumption and tackling climate change. the directive will require the introduction of smart metering services that allow consumers to check at a glance how much energy they are using and how much it will cost. the new meters are obviously part of a package of measures that will also force energy companies for the first time to give individual consumers accurate and detailed bills, along with information about the environmental impact of their energy use. climate change is one of the fundamental challenges facing us today and it is vital that we reduce carbon emissions across europe to help meet this challenge. progress in this area will require radical changes and investment decisions and behaviour by governments and individual households. this directive will enable people and businesses to assess accurately the environmental and financial impacts of their energy consumption and make informed choices on how to reduce such impacts. i fully support this directive and i welcome the work of the rapporteur.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this directive should be named expire rather than inspire, considering the detrimental effect it will have on the ordnance survey mapping agency of great britain. ordnance survey has been in existence for 215 years and has a long and distinguished record. over the last 20 years or so, it has built itself up from a government-funded organisation into a successful commercial enterprise. under its current arrangements, it has responsibility for its own finances and freedom to develop new customer-related initiatives. inspire puts all that at risk and will undermine its successful commercial operation. why is this being done? once more we see the dead hand of eu harmonisation and the eu’s need to control every aspect of its member states’ lives. also evident in this directive is the sinister presence of galileo, the eu’s ‘big brother’ spy satellite, its eye in the sky. how much more effective that will be when the eu has control of national mapping services. according to the commission’s own report, those involved in the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, particularly the commission itself, will be the main beneficiaries of this proposal. the british government should have told the eu to get lost. however, we can always rely on its cowardice and craven surrender to the eu. i would ask you to vote against this directive, but knowing your insatiable appetite for more and more legislation, i know i am wasting my breath. perhaps the growing torrent of damaging legislation imposed on the united kingdom might help to bring the british government and its people to their senses and bring forward the day of britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs salinas garcía for underlining the fact that the benefits of inspire will by far outweigh the cost. regarding mrs brepoels’ comments on intellectual property rights, i would like to stress that these are not significantly compromised by the proposed directive. in particular, it does not in any way affect the principle of co-existence or ownership of intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights held by public authorities must be exercised in a way that is compatible with the aim of inspire, which is to ensure a maximum of data selling between public authorities, as well as public access to the data. nevertheless, to answer some of mr batten’s concerns, the proposed directive explicitly allows public authorities to charge for data to be downloaded by the public. mr seeber is right in his comments on comitology. this is indeed a technical directive and many of the detailed rules, for example on how to ensure interoperability between data systems, can only be decided at expert level. i agree with mrs korhola. i would like to stress that the inspire proposal builds on the access to information directive, incorporating the same type of restrictions on public access to information, and is fully complementary with the aarhus convention. generally, i am very pleased to say that i can accept a large majority of the amendments proposed, at least in principle. a few of the amendments aim to clarify the obligations on public authorities in relation to public access and data selling and to provide safeguards for data providers in relation to intellectual property rights. amendments 3 and 26 can be accepted in their entirety, while amendments 28 and 29 can be accepted in principle. most of the other amendments seek to provide technical clarification of the proposal. some of these – amendments 8 to 12 – are intended to make the structure of the text clearer and can also be accepted, although amendment 9 introduces further small changes which can be only partly accepted. some amendments introduce other clarifications and can be accepted, while a number of others require some rewording or further clarification, so can only be accepted in principle. there are just six amendments that we cannot accept. amendments 2 and 7 seek to extend the scope of the directive to include data held by community institutions and bodies. while we have no problem with this in substance, it would create substantial obligations on community institutions and bodies and this cannot be done in the context of a directive. amendment 30 deletes a reference to measures taken to prevent distortion of competition and would make the text unclear. amendments 52, 53 and 54 give member states more time to implement certain provisions of the directive. delaying the implementation of key provisions will, however, also delay the benefits that will result from their implementation, an option which is not favoured by the commission.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr skinner, the rapporteur, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their excellent work on this important subject. although it is not very well known to the public, the reinsurance sector is very important for the financial and insurance markets in the european union and internationally. the terrible events of 9/11, as well as more recent natural disasters, have shown how essential properly functioning insurance and reinsurance sectors are. the european union is the world’s largest provider of reinsurance services. supervision of reinsurance is important for financial stability, as well as for the standing of european union reinsurers internationally. whilst reinsurers were subject to national supervision rules, the reinsurance sector was one of the few financial fields without any major european prudential legislation. the proposal for a reinsurance directive has been prepared in close cooperation with member states and the insurance industry. it is also in line with current reinsurance work in the international association of insurance supervisors. this proposal provides a regulatory framework for insurance activities in the community. it lays down a supervisory regime founded on the principles of single authorisation and prudential supervision by the home member state. it is, in fact, the same regulatory framework already used for the completion of the single market in insurance and other financial services. the single authorisation will allow reinsurance undertakings to work throughout the community under the freedom of establishment and free provision of services. the proposal could also be a useful preparation for reinsurance undertakings for the introduction of solvency ii, relating to the revision of current supervisory rules for direct insurance undertakings, in a few years’ time. this is currently being analysed by the commission, member states and stakeholders. by adopting this proposal, the european union will be also the first international organisation with a regulatory framework for insurance. this will be an important for other international fora, which are also working on the supervision of reinsurance. finally, the proposal will also constitute a useful tool that will help give the european union reinsurance industry effective market access to third countries. i look forward to hearing your comments.
rapporteur.– mr president, i am pleased to be able to report to you on this directive. it has been a great honour to be involved in this. we need to thank many of the people working inside and outside this institution: people such as john-paul dryden, who fell ill during the report drafting stage and therefore could not help us to finish it. however, manica hauptman, who took it over, has devoted a great deal of time and attention to addressing the very deep concerns and the details. the commission and its staff also played a vital role. i am sure mr mccreevy is be aware how good his staff can be. without the help of meps and their staff, and i note with appreciation the support from my colleagues across the floor, we could not have reached a fast-track agreement at first reading. we went to fight an election, came back after a time and found this still on our plates and it is quite remarkable that we have managed to deal with it so quickly. the concerns expressed by the house have been eliminated largely because of the agreement and the good work that has gone into it. the first question is, what is reinsurance? it is about business-to-business, risk and the spread of that risk by the insurance industry. it covers such things as aircraft, ships and buildings. 9/11 and its effects on the world trade center were insured by large reinsurance companies such as lloyds and others for the kinds of catastrophes that we had hoped would not occur. they panicked, but managed to pay their debts. this is a business-to-business directive as well. it involves competition. the central political issue was whether competition was fair at european level and beyond. it was therefore a question of collateral.since the value of the reassured risk was collected in banks in the country where the risk was to be covered, it just collected money that did nothing: dead cash, if you like. it was neither effective nor economic. it was an old blunt instrument. it had to be got rid of, because it increased administrative costs and it raised the issue of whether or not the risk was properly covered. that question then led us to another: the timing of this directive. we worked on a formula that allowed us to consider avoiding the solvency ii discussions, which would come later. the formula would be a form of compromise, with 24 months’ transposition and 12 months’ transition, which i welcomed, through the luxembourg presidency’s efforts, and agreed to very easily. parliament was able to vote on this in committee. other issues included sbvs, the insolvency issue and captives. without going into detail on those, i can say that we now have a level playing field at european level. the reinsurance market now has no barriers to trade and it will have a strong supervisory framework across member states when this directive goes through. thus it will help eu reinsurance undertakings to maintain their competitive edge around the world. it is a global market and european companies are at the very forefront. in fact, europe is the second largest market in itself, after the us. europe needs to play a role in the rest of the world. the adoption of this text is going to strengthen the hand of the european union in arguing for an end to the unfair, anti-competitive scam in the united states of requiring non-us companies to pay collateral within the united states, where they are regulated state by state. do not tell me that the us is a competitive economy: in terms of reinsurance, it is not. so the us now has to reconsider and i know it is doing so. this directive enables us to speak with one voice. supervisors and regulators can impose higher standards of supervision on third country companies from outside the eu if they wish, rather like the americans. there is a possibility of conflict in the world’s rule-making bodies on anti-competitive measures, which we know the us would strongly resist. but there is room for compromise, efficiency and a voluntary initiative. let us look at some of the figures. collateral is required by non-us companies in the united states. it is counted in billions: it is reckoned that usd 40 billion is collected in the us against european companies. there are far more, at a cost of usd 500 million every year. this does not promote efficiency and it does not provide security against risk. the first blow has been struck with an eu market. with the commission’s support, the fight will go on. we should congratulate ourselves on this european law, which has brought about significant change both inside and outside europe.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on his skill and inclusiveness, which, in cooperation with the council and commission, have enabled a speedy agreement to be reached on this matter. the text is a compromise, but it has been accepted by all parties, including the reinsurance industry. this is not a sexy dossier. you probably would not talk about it much in a referendum on the constitution – if you had one – but it is vitally important. the lack of an eu regulatory framework for reinsurance and differing national rules have created uncertainty for companies, barriers to trade within the internal market, greater administrative burdens and costs, and a weakening of the eu’s position in international trade negotiations. as someone who represents london, with its strong insurance sector, and in particular as someone who worked for several years for lloyd’s of london, i appreciate what a significant single market achievement this is, based on the recognised principles of licensing home state control and mutual recognition. the important thing for us citizens is that, the more supervision is streamlined and cost-reduced, the more jobs are created in a european industry which is competitive at home and abroad. it will release assets for investment that are currently tied up unproductively in collateral. it will enable the eu to mount a challenge to american anti-competitive rules. reinsurance is a global business and eu firms are in the lead, so a global marketplace in which firms have access to markets on an equal basis is needed. this directive takes us firmly in the right direction. not sexy, but significant.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by apologising to mr skinner and other meps for being unavoidably delayed due to traffic congestion and a competitiveness council meeting in luxembourg. however, i was here for the speeches. i am very pleased to inform you that the commission can fully accept all the amendments in the report adopted by the committee. the amendments take account of the discussions in the council and are also strongly supported by the insurance industry. the solutions proposed are, furthermore, well balanced and respect the commission’s initial intentions with this legislation. mr skinner also raised the issue of collateralisation. collateralisation is highly costly for reinsurance companies, as it restricts the investment strategy. this ultimately leads to more expensive reinsurance services, which could increase insurance premiums for policyholders. the eu insurance industry would particularly like to see the american collateralisation system abolished or amended. i have had discussions recently with my united states counterparts with a view to eliminating or reducing the us collateralisation requirement and those discussions are ongoing. i congratulate the committee and the rapporteur, mr skinner, for their excellent work and thank all those who helped to ensure that the work was done speedily and effectively.
rapporteur.– mr president, i wonder whether the commissioner is aware that there is a possible draft model law for states in the united states, which has been drafted for the legislators. what i would be very willing to do, if you have not seen it, is to pass it on to you. i think at the moment they surely are at their weakest position. it is something that comes from the strength of this report and it is worth pressing this point with the commissioner, to make sure that we have full agreement across the floor so that a commissioner and parliament will be pressing most strongly to push the americans further into the corner and see whether or not we can get the agreement from them that we really deserve.
mr president, it is a time of unprecedented change in agriculture. agriculture in my constituency of northern ireland still remains our most significant industry. therefore it is vital that the rural development regulation aids, rather than aggravates, our situation. this funding must not be prioritised unfairly to the new member states, with gross disadvantage to the eu-15. ‘we pay, they spend’ simply will not do. indeed, i believe the allocation of rural funding should bear some proportionality to the budgetary contributions of member states. i want to see axis i, in particular, accentuated, not diminished, with money actually getting to farmers, not being hijacked into government departments. rather, money from axis i should be ring-fenced and targeted to the agricultural community, which is directly involved in farming. remember that it is the farmers who, through a whopping 9.5% modulation from the single farm payment in 2006, are going to be key funders. i also want to see maximum regional flexibility permitted within the regulation. flexibility, minimum regulation and a belief that farming and rural development are allies, not alternatives are, in my opinion, the way to proceed.
(the speaker spoke in irish) i should like to welcome agnes schierhuber’s report on the commission’s proposal for the eafrd. i endorse the view expressed in her report, which sees the commission’s proposal as positive, but in need of some specific improvements. i welcome the commission’s proposals that aim to enhance the environment and the countryside through support for land management. equally important is the aim of enhancing the quality of life in rural areas and promoting diversification of economic activities, through measures targeting farm sector and rural actors. i also welcome the fact that through the establishment of a single rural development fund, bureaucracy and duplication are reduced. i welcome the proposals in mrs schierhuber’s report to promote equality of opportunity and the participation of women in farming and in the wider rural economy. support for organic farming is also important. the commission’s proposed budget of eur 88.75 billion for 2007-2013 at 2004 prices was also welcome. we would still face considerable problems even with this amount. it is vital that such funds are used to meet the objectives of improving the quality of life of our family farming communities and the protection of our rural environment. there is a need for the aims and objectives of natura 2000 to be mainstreamed into all aspects of eu agricultural and rural development policy and funding. farmers, foresters and other land managers should be appropriately supported for protecting and maintaining natura 2000 sites. resources should be put into the fund for the 2007-2013 period that will enable this to happen. otherwise, we seriously run the risk of repeating past mistakes. (the speaker spoke in irish)
mr president, i welcome this excellent report and congratulate the rapporteur. rural development is going to make a very important contribution to the future of rural society. the rural community has been under increasing pressure to survive. i believe that when you remove the farmer and his family from rural society, it begins to disintegrate. we have already seen what happens: schools, churches and post offices close and people move away from the countryside to the towns. i know things must change and i know we have to be prepared for that change, but it has to be for the better. we do not want to see further disintegration. i believe that the leader programme has in the main been successful and it should be developed to achieve more at local level. there is no magic wand that we can wave to bring about a magic solution. but the one thing we do need for the second pillar of the rural economy is money. when modulation develops to a larger budget, this must be deployed as direct support to secure the future of the small family farm which is the backbone of the rural economy. we must give hope to young farmers and encourage young people to make farming their future. the modulation funds must go back to the farmer and must not be thrown away on useless projects that have no hope of surviving. more encouragement should be given to farming families to develop small and medium-sized enterprises on their holdings. the bureaucratic planning authorities which, with their dogmatic beliefs, are destroying and depopulating rural society, need to show more understanding.
mr president, in this debate on terrorism i welcome the fact that last saturday morning, in belfast, an ira member, terry davison, was charged in court with the murder of robert mccartney and that a second ira person, jim mccormick, was charged with the attempted murder of mr mccartney's friend, brendan devine. i should like to congratulate the police service of northern ireland on overcoming an ira-orchestrated and ongoing campaign of intimidation to begin the process of securing justice in this notorious case. i trust that many more charges will follow, for that is the only way to deal with the processes of terrorism. the mission of democracies must be to defeat terrorism, not merely to contain or to tame it. 'softly, softly' conciliation is merely banked by the terrorists, who then demand more and more. we have lived through that in northern ireland: our government foolishly tolerated 'no go' areas for their own security forces, an acceptable level of violence, political status for prisoners, secret talks, side deals, the restructuring and renaming of the police, the soft-pedalling of paramilitary organised crime, and the ultimate ignominy of the early release of terrorists under the ill-conceived belfast agreement. none of it worked, because the latest international monitoring committee report shows that we still have a functioning, recruiting, training, threatening and active ira that works hand-in-glove with its junior partner, sinn féin, whose members, as ever, are notably absent when we debate terrorism in this house. i implore the rest of europe to learn the lessons. be quicker in learning than the british government was, and learn the lesson that terrorism cannot be tamed or sanitised but must be resolutely defeated and driven out of business, including all its sidelines of criminality.
mr president, let me begin by commenting on eu action on justice and home affairs. criticism of the hague programme for placing undue emphasis on security considerations at the expense of respect for fundamental rights is justified. it is not the remark of some left-wing agitator, but a sober assessment by the upper chamber of the british parliament – the respectable house of lords. of course, threats to our security are threats to our freedom, but the reverse is also true. undue infringements of our civil liberties make us less secure as individuals. i fully support the work of the last four years to ensure that our law enforcement agencies shed their insular and bureaucratic habits, and that our legal and judicial systems are enabled to interact, so that terrorist suspects cannot slip through the cracks. but in the words of the european data protection supervisors meeting a few weeks ago: "terrorism is used as a justification for new initiatives, many of which deal with a range of offences, some of which are significantly less serious. it is important to recognise that derogations from fundamental rights that might be justified to tackle terrorism, will not necessarily be justified where other criminal or activity is concerned." they look forward, as i do, to implementation of the suggestion, made by commissioner fratini when addressing a meeting of the joint supervisory authorities, that the commission would consider an a priori assessment of proportionality of any measures to be introduced in future, examining the impact of the proposal on fundamental rights including the question of personal data protection. regarding exchange of information, the guiding norm adopted in the hague programme is the principle of availability. that is entirely reasonable, as long as it means ending the kind of inexcusable turf wars and jealousies between agencies that prevent cooperation, but clearly it must not be misinterpreted to mean the abandonment of strict controls over retention, transfer and access to personal information. i am concerned about the potential for profiling people as potential terrorists on the basis of their race, religion or political opinions. the data protection supervisors are firm that the processing of such data should normally be prohibited. the other area where serious concern exists is in respect of the rights of terrorist suspects. the council of europe guidelines on detaining suspects without fair trial have certainly been breached in the united kingdom and probably in other eu countries. there has been a slide towards relying on evidence extracted under torture and rendition to those countries in breach of the ban on refoulement. member states conduct peer review of each other's anti-terrorism and security measures, but they still have not managed to make all member states even implement the 2002 framework decision on terrorism – the very law which makes it obligatory to criminalise terrorism. while it remains the case that member states are not implementing their laws, i really find it unacceptable that we should continue to infringe personal liberties.
mr president, terrorism threatens all of us. the united kingdom has had to deal with the irish republican terrorism of sinn féin/ira for over three decades and as they say themselves, they have not gone away, you know. we need to be steadfast in the face of terrorism. weakness and equivocation merely strengthen those who seek to undermine democracy. we also need clarity, however, on understanding the threat we face and the best measures to deal with that threat. for this reason we welcome the proposals to improve information-sharing between relevant authorities, which are foreseen under mr duquesne's report. as we have seen, member states cooperating on a bilateral basis, without being hamstrung by needlessly heavy institutional constraints, have produced results. joint investigation teams, on which i had the honour of being rapporteur in the previous parliament, have been working well in this area, as referred to in the díez gonzález report. such flexible, targeted, measured and appropriate responses are good examples of what can be achieved. but we also need to be aware of the nature of the threat that we are dealing with. the ira is different from eta, which is different from al-qa'ida, but they are all evil and must be faced down and eliminated. being unclear helps no one and i simply do not understand why some in this house do not want the use of the term "fundamental islamist organisations" to describe al-qa'ida and their ilk. similarly, we also welcome the call, in the borghezio report, to look at the question of those charities which are little more than front organisations for fund-raising for terrorism. it is deplorable that the council has not seen fit to designate hizbollah as a terrorist organisation. but above all else, we need to work together, exchanging information, assisting each other to deal with these ongoing threats, the undoubted threats to our freedom and to our democracy. (applause)
mr president, i want to speak specifically about the oral question from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which concerns bioterrorism. with the anthrax incidents in america, the attacks on the japanese underground and the chemical attacks on the kurds, we know that we are vulnerable if we do not take precautions against such bioterrorism. in 2004, the united states and the european union agreed to take constructive joint steps to improve our capabilities in this regard. the americans made a start with project bioshield, and we want to know what the european union is doing. in february, the worldwide security conference said that europe was woefully unprepared for terrorist attacks. in 2001, europe began to take steps to make sure that it was prepared. its aims were to set up a mechanism for information exchange, to develop an eu-wide system for the detection, identification and diagnosis of chemical agents, to build up a stock of medicines and vaccinations, to establish a database of healthcare specialists and to provide guidance for health authorities on how to respond and how to liaise with international bodies. but so far, not so good, because, as far as surveillance is concerned, we have established an early-warning system to detect airborne chemical agents, but its usefulness is limited, since it only operates for certain substances and would not guard against the contamination of water or food supplies. we have no eu-wide stock of vaccines, and in most countries our quarantine laws are outdated. the european union has also established the european centre for disease prevention and control to, amongst other things, ‘defend europe against bioterrorism’. it is crucial for the centre to be enhanced and made effective. the current stories about budget cuts for the centre are not acceptable and i hope that a strong message will be sent to the commission and the council.
mr president, in many of our countries terrorist organisations continue to recruit, train, raise funds, gather information and, indeed, carry out acts of terrorism. on another level, there are still those who aim to inflict mass destruction on our democracies. the battle against these organisations is a continuous one and it is right that this should not be in the public gaze. it is our duty as politicians to ensure that our police, security and intelligence services are given every possible means and support for their difficult and often dangerous work, with proper safeguards for the liberties of our law-abiding citizens. it is also our duty to be single-minded in our condemnation of terrorism. too often there are those who seek to apologise for or justify terrorism and abuse the human rights, civil liberties or anti-discrimination arguments in order to provide protection or legitimacy for terrorists whose causes they happen to favour. our own governments send out confusing signals when they are seen to deal and compromise with terrorists and even sacrifice the reputation of our security forces and individual officers in order to ingratiate themselves with organisations such as the provisional ira in the united kingdom. the so-called tamil tigers – the ltte – continue to raise funds for their activities in the united kingdom and in other european countries. hizbollah, a terrorist group estimated to have been involved in 80% of the terrorist attacks against israel, still does not feature on the eu list of proscribed organisations. it is right that there should be fresh measures in our counter-terrorist inventory in order to deal with an ever-changing threat and that these measures should be part of a seamless strategy. however, unless we are prepared to fight the terrorists politically and with genuine resolve, then the practical measures will come to nothing. in the united kingdom we have highly professional and experienced security services, but their efforts are undermined by a failure on the part of government to take the most basic steps. in a report last month on the functioning of terrorist legislation in the uk, lord carlisle said that in some ports there was effectively no security regarding incomers. first of all, we need to get it right in our own countries. the eu should be involved only where there is some genuine, proven added value and not as a means of extending the competence of eu institutions into yet more areas of activity.
mr president, i should like to propose, in agreement with mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, who is the author of this amendment, and being aware that the socialist group also has a similar oral amendment, that at the end, after the words ‘trafficking in drugs, arms and human beings’, it should read: ‘and financing through extortion, including the so-called revolutionary tax’.
in writing. as i did at the committee stage, i supported today the compromise package as commended to us in the skinner report. financial services make a very substantial contribution to the economy of scotland, and re-insurance, whether directly or indirectly, affect scottish-based enterprises and consumers. i welcome this proposal, which makes progress towards a europe-wide system of re-insurance provision and regulation, as well as providing an opportunity to tackle the situation in the usa, where vast amounts of capital are tied up because of their collateral requirement leading to extra costs currently being passed on to consumers. the rapporteur is to be congratulated for his work on this document.
in writing. i welcome this report, and the comments of the rapporteur, on the importance of ensuring a healthy rural economy. successful agriculture and forestry industries in scotland are essential contributors to the viability of our many rural communities. the geography of scotland means that many of our rural areas are less favoured areas which require specific support measures. eu support can play an important part in assisting rural businesses to meet the many competitive challenges which they face. i hope that the future budget of the eu will provide adequately for rural development programmes, and that the uk and scottish governments will enable the full potential benefits to be realised.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– mr president, mr böge has made imaginative use of the temporary committee formula and, for the second time, i congratulate him. i have time to make one simple point. we share the rapporteur’s dilemma that we cannot provide the resources that will improve the conditions and the lifestyle of our citizen body. that will mean that in some areas for which my committee is responsible, we have a diminution of consumer protection and other issues, where we are effectively giving less and asking more. mr barroso talked about a cut-price europe and the implications of that destination if we get to it. i hope that this is not going to be death by a thousand cuts. i believe that we have to keep faith with our citizens and not add to the alienation which many of them feel and which they have expressed in recent weeks.
mr president, there can be few subjects closer to a scotsman’s heart than money and, as the only scots representative on the temporary committee on the financial perspectives, i have watched the often kafkaesque debates with much interest – even when the real debate appears to be happening elsewhere. however, the time for debate, in this house at least, is almost over. it is the duty of this house to unite around this compromise so ably drafted by our rapporteur, because within the council, where the real debate is taking place, the ‘one per cent club’, so ably led by the united kingdom government, continues to hold the whip hand. it is not the perfect compromise – what compromise is? however, we must send it to the council with as strong a voice as possible. i echo mrs krehl, my colleague on the committee on regional development, when she says that regional policy is the most successful and most visible aspect of the union’s work to the citizens in whose name we carry out all our activities. the view of the temporary committee protects regional policy, and a strong european regional policy which must be promoted and protected. it grieves me that the united kingdom shows every sign of continuing its mean-spirited, shortsighted stance within the council. it is incumbent upon us in this house to send a clear message to the ‘one per cent club’ today that we will not tolerate anything less than this compromise. we have heard high hopes from the council that a deal remains hoped for. i myself would not put any money on it any time soon. it is for us to unite around the best deal possible. (applause)
mr president, may i begin by saying that reimer böge has done a really good job with this report. he has managed to reflect the position of the committee faithfully. not everyone will agree with the full contents of the report, but overall it is very good and he is to be congratulated. different views are represented in this house, whether it be on agriculture, structural funds or whatever. you cannot please all of the people all of the time, but that is not such a bad thing. you have not pleased us, because, as you would expect, the main point of departure for the british labour delegation is the implied reference to the united kingdom rebate. in this part of the debate i seem to be a voice in the wilderness, but i will carry on. i refer to recital n, which i totally disagree with, and also to paragraph 8 and the fifth indent of paragraph 51. i have always made it clear in the temporary committee that own resources and the financial perspective are two separate issues, and never before has there been an attempt to link them under any of the previous iias. that is why the british labour delegation is hesitant about supporting the report. the report will certainly give parliament a good starting point for negotiations with the council, which i welcome. of course, until we know council's agreed position, if there is one, it is difficult to say how those negotiations will go. i suppose it is still possible in theory that the council will agree with parliament's figures, or even go higher. some of us live in hope. however, from the beginning when members raised the issue of linking the financial perspective with a new system of own resources, i have used the phrase "get real" on at least three occasions. we have to "get real" about what the council will do. this is not going to happen. in the remaining three weeks of the luxembourg presidency, for all its skilful diplomacy i would be surprised if this were to be part of any package, if indeed the council has a position. i personally believe that the present own resources system is opaque and we need something more transparent, so that taxpayers can understand how the eu is financed. that discussion and decision will take place in a different house at a different time. i know that will not please colleagues in my group, but we have to live in the real world and recognise the limits of our competencies. if the british delegation abstains on this report, it is for the reason that i have outlined. as for the future, i wish you well when you start the conciliation negotiations.
thank you mr wynn. i will pass on your warm remarks to mrs thatcher.
mr president, my government says that the british budget rebate is defensible, and it is! on the same basis, net contributors like germany, sweden and the netherlands, should also have a rebate. but over the next few years the british rebate will increase markedly in size and the poorest member states will have to contribute towards it. that is not defensible. my government says that the rebate is non-negotiable. this is nonsense. the european union is a giant machine for negotiating agreements between 25 countries and everything relevant should be considered negotiable if positive benefits can be secured in return. the rebate was introduced because of imbalances in the workings of the common agricultural policy. the price that britain should demand for negotiating the rebate is the reopening of the agreement on agricultural spending, an agreement to which it acquiesced. we should support rural development; we should compensate farmers to ensure that environmental concerns are addressed. however, we should no more subsidise the very existence of farms than we should subsidise factories, quarries or coal mines. the cap discriminates against farmers in developing nations and penalises our own consumers. a phased but significant programme of cuts in pillar 1 expenditure should be introduced. that is the price britain should demand. but to continue arguing that the rebate is simply non-negotiable is neither good for europe nor best for britain.
mr president, i would like, as others have done, to congratulate the rapporteur mr böge on his work. he has done an excellent job in very difficult circumstances. i would also like to align myself with mr wynn’s rather than mr davies’ remarks about the british rebate, hardly surprisingly. as one speaker has said, we are all equal but some are more equal than others. but the idea in paragraph 51, indent 5 might give a sensible idea of how to proceed, bringing in national parliaments to make our own resources system more transparent. i wish to raise one specific point which is of great importance. the european union is going through turbulent times. we have no idea what our policies are going to be by 2013. we have no idea now what our external policies will be, particularly in relation to enlargement. we need a pause for reflection on the length of our commitment to this financial perspective. it is best to go for a five-year period, which is the same as the mandates of the commission and of the european parliament, because looking too far in the future would be an abuse of the democratic process. of course, legislative proposals can be for a longer period, but five years would allow us to sort out our policies on expenditure and own resources. of course we need to go for an agreement. i agree with mr dehaene that we should give the presidencies as much as encouragement as possible to find one. but this parliament should not sign up to any agreement at all. as we heard very clearly from our rapporteur, we need one that will be in our interests and the interests of our electorate and that is what we hope will come out of the council in a few days’ time.
i thank the rapporteur for his enormous hard work and, in particular, for supporting my amendment on the democracy programme, which now forms the last paragraph of the report. i commend it to the council and the commission.
madam president, this is an important debate with major consequences for the future of the union, and i also want to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the impressive way in which he has carried out what is undoubtedly a very onerous task in producing his report. there are, however, one or two areas where i have difficulty with his conclusions. first of all, i think it obviously is crucial that eu spending be kept under tight control and that expenditure should be used as efficiently as possible. no national government, i would suggest, could contemplate some of the spending increases that have been suggested for the 2007-2013 period. taxpayers across the eu have a right to expect politicians to spend wisely and given the recent referendum results, it is clear that many in europe and not just in britain share concerns that vast quantities of their money are being spent on major projects of which they do not seem to know enough. in terms of the overall budget, i can support the current position of the british government, as well as a number of other governments, and believe that it should be capped at 1% of the total national income of the union. on the question of the united kingdom rebate, i believe that it is justified and certainly i am going to look carefully at the position taken up by our prime minister, mr blair, at the european council next week. my one plea, without going back over old ground, is that i hope that the issue of the united kingdom rebate does not find itself becoming part of a separate set of negotiations about the future of europe following the results of the referendums in france and the netherlands this week. it is a serious matter and it needs to be dealt with in a serious way and i am sure there are views on both sides on this, but to tie it into a general set of negotiations and discussions, when critical issues have to be decided for the future of our continent, would seem to me totally inappropriate.
vice-president of the commission. the commission’s proposal to amend council regulation 1683 provides common security standards for visas and the storage of two biometric identifiers on a storage medium with a sufficient capacity. however, tests have shown that technical problems occur when a chip is introduced in each visa sticker. the council has therefore decided to anticipate the storage of biometric identifiers in the central part of the visa information system and to consider, at a later stage, whether the additional storage of biometric identifiers and the visa sticker or an additional separate smart card would be necessary. the council invited the commission on 24 february 2005 to make every effort to enable the storage of biometric identifiers in the central part of the visa information system from 2006 onwards. the decision on the additional storage of biometric identifiers on the visa sticker will largely depend on pilot testing, which is currently being carried out. the results of this project can be expected shortly. in the meantime, the commission is cooperating closely with the member states which are responsible for the conversion of vis into the national structure. the commission is currently preparing, in close cooperation with member states, an interface control document which ensures interoperability. the call for tender which the member states may publish for the national part of the vis will be based to a large extent on this interface control document. the commission is confident that all member states will be ready to connect their national systems to the central part of the vis as explained until end 2006. as far as consular posts are concerned a roll-out plan for the entire project development period becoming operational at the end of 2006 and further development between 2007-2013 should be prepared in cooperation with member states. finally, the commission considers that the commission’s proposal to amend council regulation 1683 respects all data protection issues. in accordance with the data protection directive 95/46, the article 29 working party has been consulted and had given its opinion on 11 august 2004. this opinion will of course be taken into full account in the further legislation process if the additional storage of biometric identifiers on the visa sticker or an additional, separate smart card is necessary. as regards the access of law enforcement authorities to the vis, the commission’s services are working on the third pillar legislative proposal in the field of data protection.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i am obviously not in a position to give you a concrete answer today. the two requirements we should certainly take into account are, firstly, the reliability of the technical criteria which have been adopted by the australian parliament and, secondly, interoperability and therefore the ability to make these data actually work for a system which must be extended to the 25 member states. as i said, very complex technical experiments are under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
commissioner, i recently had the opportunity to view the biometric system that has been introduced at amsterdam airport to eliminate passport controls between schengen and non-schengen areas, which seem to me to work extremely well. has the commissioner had the chance to examine that system? if so, does he believe that it could be spread, on a voluntary basis at the moment, to a network of european airports?
member of the commission. the question on deafness and hearing impairment is extremely important. according to the eurostat publication, ‘key data on health 2002’, it is true that at present there are no data on the prevalence of deafness, hearing impairment, nor on tinnitus in the european union. however, the commission agrees that it would be important, as a measurement of a significant aspect of health status, to have comparable and accurate data on such impairments. it would also be useful to evaluate screening, care and treatment available and to develop preventive strategies. in terms of research, the commission has given the issue a great deal of attention both in the previous and current framework programmes. as an example, under the fifth programme, the ‘hereditary deafness’ project – with an eu contribution of eur 2.8 million and coordinated by the institut pasteur in paris – led to the discovery of half of the genes causing hereditary deafness once mutated. this project strongly contributed to the development of new diagnostic tools to identify these genetic defects early after birth. more recently, a large fp6 integrated project, eurohear – coordinated by inserm in paris – addressing deafness and hearing impairment just started in december 2004. this project receives a european union contribution of eur 12.5 million. it has the objectives of providing fundamental knowledge about the development and function of the inner ear, and identifying the molecular defects underlying hereditary hearing impairments. achieving these objectives will facilitate the development of therapies for alleviating hearing impairment. other projects of a lower scale on hearing impairment and rehabilitation were also funded. more specifically, detection techniques of hearing impairment, notably in the new-born and children, were supported in the context of the successive ahead projects coordinated by professor grandori, in milan, based on the technique of otoacoustic emissions. in the context of the commission’s proposal for the seventh framework programme, the fields of advanced diagnostic techniques and handicaps are, like before, still clearly considered. in addition – and this is new – child health is recognised as a strategic issue, to be addressed across activities of the health theme, including diagnosis and treatment approaches. more specifically, the specificities of children will be taken into consideration in order to foster the translation of clinical research outcomes into clinical practice. although research topics have not yet been identified, research into deafness and hearing impairment in children could mature along these lines.
that was an excellent, very helpful reply. i would like to press the commissioner a little further. as he knows, thousands of babies are born in europe with a permanent hearing impairment. some 50% of those are not diagnosed until they are 18 months old. some 25% are not diagnosed until they are nearly three years old. as a result of that late diagnosis, permanent damage is caused to those young lives. what we now know is that if you have a new-born hearing screening programme, you can give new hope to those children, real potential for them and my plea is that the commissioner finds a slot within the seventh programme to develop that knowledge further.
rapporteur.– mr president, this report on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged european union is an extremely wide report. from the title, members of this house could see almost immediately that we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs were dealing with two very big areas. firstly we were dealing with extending and deepening the definition of what it means to be a minority in the enlarged european union. but we were also dealing with unfinished business: we were dealing with the response to the green paper on anti-discrimination. both areas are extremely wide and probably required reports of their own, but we have tried to put these issues together in one report and i hope i have touched on the key issues, however difficult they have been. because this has been a difficult report, i want to thank at the very outset the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues in the chamber today for all their help in meeting the aims of this report. it has been difficult and there are one or two issues still to be sorted out before the vote tomorrow. but let me return to the substance of this report. i care very passionately about ensuring that there is a definition of what it means to be a minority in the new enlarged european union. we know that the protection of minorities was part of the copenhagen criteria for enlargement of the european union, but equally we realise that there was no real standard for minority rights in the european union and in community policy. and because of this gap, we wanted to ensure that this report took at least one step forward in attempting to make that definition. that definition is a very wide one. it includes all the traditional definitions that we understood in the existing 15 member states under article 13 of the treaty, where we talked about minorities which suffered from disabilities, the issue of age, religion, sexual orientation, race and ethnic origin. but in the enlarged european union we also have to understand that we are talking about traditional minorities: linguistic minorities and national minorities. it is also important to understand the changing nature of the european union. a recent debate in this house on the roma identified that minority as probably the largest in the european union and deserving of a rapid and deep response to the problems that they face. so this report tries to take on two areas. i shall deal with each of them. first, the response to the green paper and article 13. here in my report i find that the implementation and transposition of the existing directives which the commission brought forward and this parliament voted through, and the strengthening of legislation in relation to discrimination on the grounds of disability, age, religion, sexual orientation, race and ethnic origin, was far too slow. too many member states have failed to implement existing directives, and although the legislation is very good and some member states have transposed it, there is insufficient will in the european union to transpose what already exists. i hope this report will take one step further with the commission – and i know the commission has been making strides on this in bringing member states to account, but i hope that member states will see for themselves the benefit of transposing this legislation. article 13 legislation, the race equality directive and the employment directive are valuable because they can apply equally to the roma minority, as they do to second or third generation ethnic minority migrants in britain or france or italy. and that is the beauty of this legislation: it is easy to transpose. but it needs the political will of the member states in order to implement it. on the definition of minorities, here we have to take seriously the question of traditional, national and linguistic minorities. we have to understand that there are many people in the european union who want to protect their diversity, but they feel they are a minority and therefore vulnerable. this report seeks to look at those areas, not to impose solutions on member states, but to have a standard in the european union that says that if you are a minority you are also a european union citizen worthy of respect and worthy of carrying on your own cultural traditions, language or whatever it may be. finally i want to say that this has been a difficult report but we have to identify that the way any member state treats its minorities is a measure of how advanced that member state really is. this is a very important test. we saw it in the copenhagen criteria and we should see it today: that a member state can be measured by how it protects its minorities, how it protects diversity within its population. we in the european union already have the legislation to do this. we must use it, and we must develop a definition of minorities which everyone can accept. there have been difficulties in this report, but i hope that definition will be broadly acceptable to all members across this house.
mr president, i too would like to thank mr moraes for the work that has been done on this very sophisticated report, which, as some have already said, demonstrates the growing complexity of the european union. at the moment we are looking at the question of whose europe is it that we are creating; and this report, along with others tonight, is very strong on the fact that this needs to be an inclusive europe, where people have equality of opportunity to fulfil their potential. we need to be combating the growing movements we see which are based on hatred and exclusion, something that, for many of us, is absolutely unacceptable within this european union. i welcome the particular recognition given in this report to the work of local authorities and others from the grassroots up, because we are looking at something of a cultural shift which broadens the european union. i echo mr moraes’ statement on the article 13 directives. i would hope that the incoming presidency makes that a priority, so that at least the legislation is in place when we come to celebrate the year of equalities in 2007.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i have heard a number of references this evening to a common european immigration policy. i can assure you all that the british people do not want a common european immigration policy. in the recent british general election, all the large pro-eu parties made impossible promises about containing immigration. their pledges were incompatible with eu membership. the commission itself said so with regard to the conservative party’s asylum proposals. but it is internal eu immigration that really demonstrates the futility of their promises. over 130 000 people from eastern european countries entered the uk between may and december 2004: ten times the maximum official predictions. we bear no ill-will to the people of the new member states. but go to london and observe its creaking housing, transport and health systems: it cannot cope with such a large and sudden increase in population. now spain intends to grant legal status to up to 700 000 illegal immigrants. these people will then be free to move to britain if they wish. spain’s selfish and irresponsible act demonstrates how britain can have no independent immigration policy inside the european union.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i would just like to thank all those who have spoken. i can confirm that the commission's work will continue in the spirit that this parliament shares: the european approach can combine decisive action against trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration with strong action in solidarity. european values are values of solidarity and respect for the fundamental rights of every person. it is by balancing these two needs that europe's added value can be achieved, also in the delicate field of migration policies.
member of the commission. first of all i should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr peillon, for his clear analysis of the common position of the council and the conclusions he draws from it. i am very pleased to note that his report shares the view of the commission that the union urgently needs a common, effective and balanced approach to the monitoring of large-scale cross-border cash movements. i also share mr peillon’s view that you are now being presented with a proposal which is clearer and more practical than its predecessor. i believe that the adoption of this proposal will provide the community with a solid measure to enable customs to control significant amounts of cash entering or leaving the community. member states’ experience shows that cash is being used to avoid controls on transfers by the financial institutions. cash movements are also an easy means of moving terrorist funding. criminals are helped by the fact that we have varying levels of national controls to check suspect cash movements. we therefore need these measures to complement the existing money laundering controls to remove the possibility for criminals and terrorists to use this gap in controls. the proposal sets out a control mechanism and reporting rules, which require anyone entering or leaving the community with more than eur 10 000 in cash to declare the sums carried to customs. failure to declare or the provision of false information will require member states to verify the bona fides of the movement and take further action as necessary. the proposal also sets out a reporting mechanism to ensure that information obtained is handled and exchanged efficiently and with due care. in addition, this proposal will also help the legitimate traveller by replacing the existing wide range of national approaches with a clear, simple and straightforward community system. i therefore believe that the proposal you have before you today will close existing loopholes and reinforce our actions to combat terrorism and organised crime. the straightforward system proposed means that this will be done without placing an undue burden on the traveller or the national administrations concerned. i accordingly look forward to your support for its adoption as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this report calls for tight controls on the reporting of cash entering or leaving the european union member states. it is introduced under the convenient guise of the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and money laundering, but what is its real motivation? an obligation to declare or disclose cash movements could easily be changed to impose an actual limit on the movement of money out of the european union. yesterday in this chamber i spoke of the certainty of the eventual failure of the european single currency. it is obvious that the proposals in this report anticipate a future crisis of confidence in the euro. when that happens the european commission and european central bank will want to prevent the movement of money out of the eurozone. to include britain in these restrictive measures is to couple insult with injury. it is yet another reason, if one were needed, for britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, in his english dictionary of 1755 samuel johnson defined excise as ‘a hateful tax’, and this tax and the way it is policed have become a hate object also for my scottish constituents. they call me in tears to describe having their cars dismantled and their children terrified by customs officers. okay, they are told, you can appeal to the courts – except that they cannot afford the courts against the customs’ bottomless pockets, and the burden of proof falls on them. and what good do these exaggerated excise taxes do? they victimise honest retailers who cannot compete with personal purchases abroad, and the much more serious smuggling by organised crime which these taxes promote. they actually reduce overall tax revenue. and then there is the cost of all those extra customs inspectors. and health. do excise taxes really discourage smoking and drinking? no! because the high level of personally imported and smuggled cigarettes and alcohol means that the actual cost of smoking and drinking is cheaper. excise is not only hateful, it is also pointless, and high rates of excise tax which are out of line with those in other countries are even more pointless. all they do is distort shopping patterns absurdly and provide fertile ground for organised crime to flourish. you, mr commissioner, are responsible for ensuring that the single european market functions properly, with free movement of goods and people; and clearly it does not function where there are large disparities in rates of excise duty. i, we, accept the concept of tax competition. competition exists in income and corporate taxes, and rightly so. why not also with excise? perhaps it is time to abandon excise tax altogether and turn to value added tax as the only consumption tax.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to make some comments on the amendments tabled. a number of the amendments modify or add recitals in order to emphasise the need to create an internal market for excise products also. i can assure you that is the very purpose of the commission proposal. i feel that is already properly reflected in the recitals. as to the amendment requesting that the commission review and assess the ‘indicative limits’, i can only say that the commission has assessed them in its report. that was the basis for its proposal and it has come to the conclusion that they should no longer appear in eu legislation. for this reason, and as the amendment proposed does not reinsert such indicative limits in the directive either, i do not see the need for the commission to table another report on this issue. lastly, as regards the burden of proof that goods are for private use, the amendment in question seems to place that burden entirely on the administration. the commission approach on this is somewhat different and would seem to be more neutral. it is for the citizen to provide any explanation or proof concerning the purpose of his transporting the goods in question. it is for the administration to decide on the basis of those elements. as such a decision can always be contested, it should be based on firm grounds.
rapporteur.– mr president, it has been a delight to listen to ‘commissioner’ karas! i am sure it is only a matter of time before we see him in that role. often colleagues are faced with the question on the doorstep of ‘what does europe do for me?’. this debate will help them to answer that question, at least in one respect: that this report and this measure are all about giving patients more rights and power over their own health and the right to go to another member state for treatment if they face undue delay in their own country. that gives great opportunities for patients; it also brings new headaches for the managers of health budgets. i should like to thank my colleagues who have contributed to the debates we have had on this issue, not least in a hearing that we held in parliament. i should also like to thank the commission. i sympathise with the commissioner who tonight is not too well, but i am sure that this measure will help to find a solution even to that and we will be able to find somewhere for him to travel to in order to find succour! i thank him and his staff for the help they have given as we have discussed this issue. i thank the many people outside parliament and the commission who have given their ideas, as we have sought them, on how we should proceed. this measure starts from people. it does not start from the commission, parliament or governments. it starts from people who look to europe for a solution to their problem. they took the issue to the european court of justice. they challenged that court to give them mobility rights and the court did so. it gave them the right, if they faced undue delay in their own country, to go to another country with certain criteria: that the cost was comparable to what they would have paid in their own country and that the treatment was common in their own country. there were one or two other criteria as well. however, the judgment was made. a new opportunity had arisen. there are many ways in which people who face delays in their own country can be helped. part of the solution has been the bilateral contracts that we have had between governments and health services. part of it has been the interreg system bringing together hospitals across the european union. i have seen this here in strasbourg, which, as a city, is working with lille and luxembourg. we have the e-111 and the new euro-health card behind us. however, the e-112 has not been part of the solution. that form that was supposed to give people the opportunity to go for planned treatment abroad. that has been bureaucratic and obstructive and has to be changed. we had the high-level reflection group, which looked at the issues, came up with some recommendations, but has gone for the long grass in terms of some of the issues. we now need action, we need guidelines. the patient who wants to use this opportunity needs to know whether his condition qualifies; he needs to know what forms to fill in; he needs to know where he can go; to which doctors and how he can check up on those doctors; if they are ok; can i get help with travel; can my family come and support me, particularly if there is a child involved; and what happens if something goes wrong. guidance for patients is fundamental and guidance is urgently needed. just as fundamental is guidance to doctors who will refer patients abroad, as is guidance to the health services and the insurance companies who will have unplanned expenditure and want to know how they will be reimbursed. there are many issues that we need to look at: information to patients, the transfer of information on patients between countries, checks on doctors, the disciplinary procedures, the complaints procedures that will need to be behind all this, what happens to people who retire abroad to the sun, etc. now we need certainty. if we do nothing then the courts will go deciding. the watts case will be next. but i believe that parliaments, not lawyers, should decide policy. i should like to conclude by sharing with you the words of louis pasteur, that i quoted in my explanatory statement: ‘la science ne connaît pas de frontière parce que la connaissance appartient à l’humanité et que c’est la flamme qui illumine le monde’ (science recognises no borders because knowledge belongs to humanity and is the torch which illuminates the world.) let those words be our guide as we give clarity and confidence to our citizens who urgently need both from us.
member of the commission. mr president, mr bowis is correct in that i have a bit of a nasty stomach problem today. he is right: i am a mobile patient myself. i am very interested in following the debate. i wanted to be here personally because i consider this to be a very important issue, something that we all have to work on in the next few years. the rapporteur is right that people are ahead of us in this respect. even though i am not feeling well today, i cannot think of a better place to be, with so many doctors around this evening for this discussion! i feel confident enough in that respect. i will listen very carefully to the debate and the comments that will be made by the honourable members. i am very happy that, based on the report, we are thinking along the same lines. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr bowis, for his work on, and the effort he has put into, this report. i welcome it and the support it offers to the commission for the work that we are trying to do on this issue. there are some issues that we need to take further. judging by what we have included in our proposal for the new health programme, the terms of reference and the work done by the high-level group on health show that this is along the same lines as the proposal of the report. the target has to be that a citizen can get the highest level of healthcare in his or her own country. that should be the rule. nevertheless, things change. people such as myself travel because of business or because they have to wait a long time in their own country or because the specific treatment required is not offered in their country, or even more so, because they feel that they can get better care elsewhere. that is a reality and something that we have to deal with. it is not always possible, and that is why there is a need for legal certainty. that is the very first requirement, with which i agree. however, the reality is that people travel and we have to travel for health. i heard about an interesting report today, which says that the polish medical healthcare system has started receiving patients from germany and the uk. that is welcome in the sense that it will boost the budget of the healthcare system in poland, provided that it is not at the cost of polish patients. that is very important. we will work on final solutions: we take on board that message from the report, but this must always be done in conformity with the principle of subsidiarity and the principle that healthcare services are in the competence of member states. four important points in the report are: the centres of reference; professional mobility, which already causes problems in some of the new member states because of doctors or healthcare workers moving to other member states for higher pay; patient safety; and dealing with inequalities. we all have to work in that direction, both within the high-level group and the commission itself.
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– mr president, i would like to thank john bowis for an excellent report. i only regret that my main committee, the committee on employment and social affairs, did not get its act together to draw up an opinion on this subject. as the committee responsible for regulation (ec) no 1408/71, we have an interest in it, as do i as parliament’s rapporteur during the previous term. i am rather concerned about the tone of some of the comments that i have just been hearing. let us be clear: patients have the right to move under certain circumstances. it is not a free-for-all, and i do not think parliament should be giving that impression. not least because some colleagues who sit in member state parliaments would be a little upset to see us moving their budgets as a matter of course because we choose to. it is right that we need greater clarity around the rules on this, but i welcome the recognition in this report that healthcare is a service to people in need, it is not an ordinary consumer product. therefore, it should not be in the services directive. that is not the appropriate place either to deal with questions of reimbursement. we will have a real mess unless we do this properly and in a considered manner, as has been proposed in this report.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, thomas jefferson said in 1787, ‘a little rebellion now and then is a good thing’. beyond the gloom and pessimism about europe’s future, last week’s rebellion by our citizens could turn out to have some benefits. member states are confronted with the outcome of their own duplicity. if you claim the credit for everything that goes right and blame brussels for everything that goes wrong, then sooner or later your citizens will rumble you – and they have. when the vge 380 was rolled out onto the tarmac last summer, we all cheered. but it has features and a name that are scaring away potential passengers. some complain there are too many foreigners aboard, others that the new french and german specifications for the engines have weakened it. but nobody is completely satisfied with a vehicle in which strategic decisions are taken without proper public debate. that is a failing not just at eu level, but in our national debates too. for all our grand plans for transnational cooperation, we have failed to explain to people what we are doing at european level and why, and to address their fears about jobs, careers and a productive retirement in a fast-changing world. europe is too secretive and too opaque. too many decisions are still taken behind closed doors and without proper parliamentary scrutiny. basic parliamentary prerogatives and formal opinions are ignored or dismissed, such as the opposition in this house to heavy-handed proposals on data retention or passenger data transfer. is it any wonder that big projects like the constitution are rejected, when even basic institutional respect is lacking? the british foreign secretary has been accused of making funeral arrangements before the coroner has spoken, but he gave voice to what many are saying in private, that the treaty in its current form is unlikely to survive. it would have been ideal to hear the opinion of all member states. in future, any such ratification must be put to all european citizens at the same time. but these were votes to reject not a text, but the way our union operates. mr schmit, mr barroso, we do not blame you for getting us into this mess, but we look to you for leadership in getting us out. of course, there is a limit to how much a small member state or the commission can do. a huge responsibility rests on the larger beasts in the european jungle for the economic and social ills plaguing the union. but since the franco-german motor is clearly kaput, we want to see you building a new one. more than ever, europe needs leaders with a sense of purpose and vision, who can inspire our citizens to maximise their potential and opportunity. if not you, then who? with or without this constitution, you can improve the way the union operates and communicates. here are just three ways: the council could and should be more open, legislating in public, respecting freedom of information; justice and home affairs policy could and should be decided by the normal community method, as provided for in the existing treaties; the european parliament could and should be given a real say on international agreements. those three steps would help to rebuild confidence in the european project. at the european council, you need an answer from chirac and balkenende about whether this constitution will ever be ratifiable in their countries and if not, what kind of text might be. we need a treaty for a union of 27 member states, but in the meantime there is much you can do to rebuild on the basis of the current treaties and restore public faith in the european project. (applause)
mr president, a former labour prime minister said that a week is a long time in politics. i suspect that, whatever one’s views on the outcome of the french and dutch referendums, few would disagree with that observation. i do not want to go back over the issue of the constitution and the referendum results, but i believe that it is now very difficult for the constitution to be taken forward in its present form. we can dwell on that forever. what we should be doing this morning is looking at the positive sides of what is going on in europe and what we can achieve outside of that situation. there must be an proper ongoing debate on the kind of europe we want to build. the people have given a clear message and part of that message is that they feel alienated by the processes and by the institutions. that cannot be good for democracy and it undermines the trust we need from the people to carry out our responsibilities. however, we should now proceed with our programme and not be distracted too much. it is very important at the moment that there should be no delay in driving forward the lisbon agenda, the current liberalisation policies or the sustainable development arguments. as the president has said, we have to meet the challenges from china, india and other parts of the world with fast-growing economies. it would be quite wrong, therefore, to deny our people the chance of greater prosperity, because we are diverted and distracted, possibly for a long period of time, by a structural issue which seems to be going nowhere at present. so there is an urgent need for us to seize our opportunity for renewal. we have to grasp the scale of what has happened this week, but we must move on and forward in a way that meets with the approval of the european people as a whole. the union has been offered this chance to rethink its future and face up to the profound questions concerning its future direction. but we must not allow ourselves to be diverted away from the policies that are already being developed and pursued vigorously and necessarily to benefit all of us.
mr president, a year ago everyone here said that the constitution would need unanimity. of course, in those days it was thought that all the referendums would be won. in the david v. goliath contest, the french people have aimed their stone well and they killed the constitution. the dutch then buried it and now, in a scene that reminds me of the hammer house of horror, the arm is reaching up out of the coffin. we are being told, no, no, it is not dead, the patient is still alive, and the ratification process will continue. that surprises me, because it seems to me that you are indulging in masochism. you are going to have a rather unhappy period. mr barroso, it is not a case of going too quickly, you are going in the wrong direction. allied to that, i see the rapid rise of political extremism, of nasty nationalism, of blind nationalism; it is euro nationalism and it knows no bounds. i know that you intend to treat the peoples of europe with contempt by pushing this through without ratification. history will catch up with you. (applause)
mr president, i congratulate the people of france and holland on bringing deliverance to all those in europe who value democracy and national liberty. the situation that now exists challenges the democratic credentials of eu leaders. you set the test for the survival of the constitution: ratification by all 25 member states. you lost. it is time to face up to it and bury the corpse that is the eu constitution. your attempts to resuscitate it are as distasteful as they are ill-fated. mr watson’s reference back to 1787 tempts me to go back a little further. it is not the first time that holland has saved europe from political tyranny. this very week in that most notable of years 1690, william, prince of orange, landed at carrickfergus in my constituency and brought us in the united kingdom the glorious revolution and the williamite settlement, which to this day is the basis of freedom ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, president barroso said that we should not start the blame game. however, we should certainly question the credibility of the european council in stimulating and managing the great debate about the social and economic future of europe. the european council should, and probably will, suspend the ratification process but it should not pull the plug on the whole constitutional project. instead, it should agree in principle to set up a new convention – pluralistic, parliamentary and transparent – with a broader brief than that of laeken, especially to modernise and refresh part iii, to bring the common policies into line with the aspirations and anxieties of our citizens. the new convention should also be asked to break the rigid relationship between the first, second and third parts and to create a proper hierarchy between them, so that in part iii the policies become distinctly subsidiary to part i. this group and parliament will play a full part in fostering such a convention.
mr president, continuing with the ratification procedure in the remaining member states would have the attraction of showing that this constitution does have the support of the majority of member states and of the peoples of the european union. but it is a risky strategy in some ways. it risks further 'noes', it risks giving the impression that we are proceeding with business as usual without listening, and of course it also poses the question of whether you can easily ask the french or the dutch to vote again on the same text without further ado. something else has to happen. we need the european council to agree collectively on how to proceed. it is no good some countries going ahead with ratification whilst others have pronounced the text dead. we need a common agreement. i think that agreement must comprise a pause for reflection at some stage for further debate and for further adjustment, with two stages. firstly at national level: those countries that have said 'no' or that risk saying 'no' must be able to think and tell the rest of the european union how they see the way forward, what adjustments they think are necessary. then secondly at european level: we must make this a european debate, not just another quick igc behind closed doors, but a public debate. that is why i think reconvening a new convention with a new president might not be such a bad idea. it does after all meet in public. it involves national parliamentarians. it involves people from governing parties and opposition parties. it would be the way forward. it would get far more public attention than the previous convention. there is no easy way forward. we must find a way because we cannot afford to lose the reforms contained in this constitution. we need a european union that is more effective and more democratic.
in writing. today's vote on the motion of censure was a farce. the parliament voted, with a massive majority, to pat mr barroso on the back and tell him what a splendid job he is doing. it tells him and the other commissioners that they can accept any amount of hospitality, from anyone, without there being any question of being held to account. the motion was called only because of barroso's refusal to come clean over hospitality, and the intransigence and blind obedience of the major political groups. well, despite the strong arm tactics and bullying we managed to have a debate, which is a small victory for transparency. the silence of mr. barroso, on the very central and direct question on the latsis group and the eu relations, no doubt proves there are no longer business links between them. however due to a re-interpretation of the rules we are forced into today's vote which was never our intention. so be it. the european parliament may have confidence in mr barroso, but other recent votes out there in the real world suggest that the peoples of europe have lost confidence in his project.
in writing. as a signatory of the motion of censure, my intention, as decared in the motion, was to ensure that commission president josé manuel barroso should come to the parliament to explain the lavish hospitality which he had received from a greek shipping magnate. this objective was achieved, and like most signatories i should then have been very happy for the motion to be withdrawn. apparently this was not possible for procedural reasons. since i did not wish the motion to be voted at all, it seemed that my most logical course of action would be to abstain on the vote.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have voted against this report because it falls short of proposing the financial reform that is necessary in order for the eu taxpayer to receive better value for money. now is not the time to ask for more money from member states when the public perceives the eu budget as a 'black hole'. instead, the eu should do less but do it better. consequently, we support actually capping the eu budget contributions by member states to 1% gross national income. the eu must manage the funding it receives in a more transparent and cost-effective manner, targeted towards stimulating economic growth and prosperity across europe. finally, the british government must not be allowed to abandon the uk rebate for any short-term alternatives. currently, the uk receives receipts per capita that are probably the lowest in the eu, receiving less, in terms of infrastructure and agricultural subsidies, than states such as france and italy. indeed, britain is already the second largest contributor to the budget and without the rebate, it would make us the largest. hardly an example of giving value for money to the british taxpayer!
in writing. i would like it to be noted that i am in favour of retaining the british rebate. this should be the case until there is a radical reduction in the amount of money that is paid to agriculture.
in writing. may i inform the president that the e.p.l.p voted to abstain in the final vote of the above report. the e.p.l.p believes that although a single market for products purchased by individuals is essential, other issues affect decisions over excise duty charges. moreover, this report on distance purchasing ignores the related concept of e-commerce. secondly, member states should be allowed to set excise duty rates themselves. maximum harmonisation infringes this right. thirdly, minimum indicative levels act as a reasonable guide in the uk for personal consumption and help the uk authorities to fight fraud.
in writing. i voted against the moraes report because of the unacceptability to me of paragraphs 22 and 24. i cannot accept the promotion of equal matrimonial and other rights for same sex couples. i believe a member state has the right to reject such partnerships as not equal to heterosexual relationships. i strongly support the family unit being based on the natural order of complementary sex couples and i value the benefit to children which results.
mr president, the recent brok report argued that the eu as a whole should play a major role within the un. the ppe-de group amendment to the report demanded that the eu should be guaranteed a seat in the un security council. that word ‘guaranteed’ is incompatible with the un high-level panel’s view that no change in the composition of the security council should be regarded as permanent in the future. in both of the panel’s proposed models for reform of the security council, the current permanent members would retain seats. that is not what the eurofanatics want to hear. they want the eu to take over the seats of france and the uk. however, even mr brok’s report conceded that an increased role for the eu was pending the entry into force of the new constitutional treaty. the constitution is dead; the eu has no legal personality; europe is not a nation and the eu, therefore, has no place in the united nations.
mr president, we must never forget that the collective interest is the national interest, especially in a world full of terrorism. one of the most important functions of the united nations is the delivery of its aid to the less developed world. corruption and a lack of transparency erode public support. a fundamental reform is needed of what the united nations does with its aid delivery. for the first time, internet technology has made it possible to bring transparency into the raising of international aid funding in the donor countries and the delivery of aid in the recipient countries. we must be able to see how the aid is being spent, brick by brick. a closer involvement by citizens through the internet will create a new driving force for the effective delivery of aid and for holding governments, the united nations and other ngos accountable. civil strife and gross violations of human rights are the principal obstacles to united nations development objectives. one civil war can undo decades of development effort. it is therefore essential to give our full backing to the work of the international criminal courts and to make it clear that anyone who commits crimes against humanity will be personally called to account for his or her action. the united nations must be able to anticipate and prevent. it must be a peace-builder and a peacekeeper. on 24 february, this parliament passed a unanimous resolution demanding that nigeria surrender to the united nations international court the former president of liberia, who has been charged with war crimes by the united nations special court for sierra leone. why has the united nations security council failed to reinforce this demand with a mandatory resolution under chapter vii? the united nations commission on human rights must be replaced with a stronger human rights council, with membership barred to nations with poor human rights records. finally, the united nations must return to its roots. it must reform a stagnant bureaucracy. it must sweep away a dysfunctional committee. it must focus on an active united nations parliamentary assembly, a good governance and democracy promotion unit. it must become the three pillars: peace and security, justice and human rights, and development.
mr president, it is indeed good to hear the council and the commission restate so firmly the european union commitment to renewing transatlantic cooperation. there are many areas of work in which the shared values of both partners directly coincide. the united states of america has recently taken the lead in openly encouraging the establishment of democracy in the arabian peninsula. the european union has set up the unique euro-mediterranean partnership: quieter, in-depth work, helping to establish the rule of law and rights-based legislation in north africa and the eastern mediterranean. dialogue between these two key actors is not enough. our whole world is now riven by conflict and insecurity, from weapons of mass destruction, which sadly do exist, to the continued act of genocide in different countries. our citizens and the world’s citizens are in danger. full-scale cooperation between the european union and the united states of america, as well as with other key democracies such as india, is a prerequisite for peace.
mr president, the atmosphere has changed significantly since the visit of george w. bush to brussels a few months ago, but it is interesting that in the international press this is not yet recognised. it would be nice, mr president-in-office, if you could show, when you are in washington with the commission, that we can make a real step forward in eu-us relations. clearly there are a whole range of issues of a political and security nature on this agenda to which you have referred, particularly the political challenges dealing with democracy, human rights and the rule of law. it would be nice, mr president-in-office, if you would listen to my contribution, because i would like to draw your attention to one particular issue on the economic side. it is through the economics that we must drive this particular relationship. that is where the businesses want the remaining barriers to trade and investment to be removed. that is where an oecd report released this week shows that if we go for growth and remove these barriers, we could be adding 2 to 3% gdp per capita in europe as a result. i would therefore like the summit to be able to set out an ambitious agenda, a vision of how these remaining obstacles can be reduced and removed, to have a route map, to be able to have a clear timetable so that we would be able not only to stimulate our economies, but to bring europe and america closer together. to do that you are going to need the cooperation of this house. you have spoken about the cooperation between this house and that of the us congress, the significant support in this house for this concept, and also for a broader partnership framework between the united states and europe. it is up to you, to mr juncker as president-in-office of the council, and to mr barroso, to take the leadership and to make sure we do not miss out on this opportunity for a strengthened european-american relationship which will not only be good bilaterally, but will also enable us to face the multilateral global challenges, a relationship without which they will not be resolved.
mr president, uzbekistan is the most populated and culturally the richest of the five central asian post-soviet newly independent states. uzbekistan has no historic traditions of democracy or good governance, having been ruled in the distant past by khanates, followed by tsarists and soviet russia, only to find itself unexpectedly a sovereign state in 1991, following the disintegration of the soviet union. inevitably the then existing uzbek nomenclatura filled the power vacuum; hence the composition of the current regime. there can be no doubt that president karimov has ruled in an authoritarian way and human rights abuses have been common, particularly against the islamic movement of uzbekistan, a close ally of the then taliban in afghanistan but now largely defeated or replaced by the nominally peaceful, although still fundamentalist, hizb ut-tahrir, which rather surprisingly has offices in the european union to gather funds and recruit supporters. during the recent debate on the coveney human rights report, i tried to strike a balance between the stick of uzbekistan-bashing and the carrot of more dialogue with the uzbek president if he continues to cooperate with fighting international terrorism and delivers on his commitment to give independence to the judiciary, freedom to the press and punishment to those responsible for torture and human rights abuses. sadly, no sooner had we adopted this report than the andizhan tragedy occurred. the full story is still very confused. who were these 23 prisoners bounced out of prison by armed insurgents? who took civilian hostages to negotiate with the regional governor? who called the crowds out to protest? and who gave the orders for the troops to shoot innocent protestors? i of course deeply regret mr karimov’s refusal of an international inquiry and so i call upon the osce to involve the little-known moscow mechanism last used with turkmenistan, also an authoritarian regime, to impose an international inquiry and to report with or without uzbekistan’s consent. this method, to my mind, is more likely to produce a result than any other.
i am not very good at mathematics, but i make that 24, so one of the member states you told me nothing about at all. what are you doing about the one member state that apparently is doing nothing about it?
madam president, on a point of order on which i would appreciate your advice, i was told a moment ago by sessional services that this question has been withdrawn, but i understand that normally every mep has access to the full list of questions. every mep has the right to ask a supplementary question, and yet there seems to be no obligation on the person withdrawing the question to tell all the other members that he has done so. so those of us who have come to ask a supplementary question are being denied our democratic right. if that really is the case, would you not agree that the rules need to be reviewed? alternatively, can i ask a supplementary question to mr newton dunn’s question? clearly it is a crime that i cannot ask a supplementary question, and it has clearly been organised by the socialists!
that is very gracious of you, madam president, but that would be cheating because my question is about working time and i would not wish to cheat.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i do not know why we are having this debate. mr karas acknowledges that the stability pact relies on member states disciplining themselves. he needs to go a step further in deducing that, for that very reason, the pact cannot work; it never could work. so i regret that his well-intentioned attempts to try and make it work by tightening definitions will be in vain. rather than pretending that fiscal discipline can be achieved, we should consider the consequences when it is not achieved. let me focus on italy, where the deficit has now been shown to have been above the 3% margin for several years; debt is 106% of gdp; inflation is making the economy increasingly uncompetitive and economic growth is negative. the real danger here is that these conditions will culminate in a credible threat from italy to reissue its own national currency, enabling it to devalue and thereby regain competitiveness without painful and prolonged deflation. such an action would have serious argentina-style results for italy but could, nevertheless, be seen as the best course of action. but a decision by italy to re-issue the lira would undermine confidence in the ability of the euro to survive as a multinational currency. other eu countries would then be faced with the prospect of providing the italian government with large-scale financial assistance to persuade it to stay with the euro.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i hope the commissioner has finished texting everybody to say that they have got the tyre manufacturers sorted out. obviously he has not, as he is not listening to what we are saying. i congratulate the rapporteur on his report. it was a difficult and very technical report and required a certain amount of skill. i also wish to congratulate the tyre manufacturers, because over the years they have improved road safety, the availability of tyres and also the tread and the capacity of the tyre to stick to the road. that was why i know that my fellow rapporteur had a slight problem with the date 2010. i realise that he wanted to stick to the original commission proposal of 2009, but a number of tyres could not be changed for that date and that is why we opted for the date on the tyre. i am delighted to hear that he has accepted that. it is good that the commission and the council have accepted, because we have come forward with a compromise package for its acceptance. particularly in the current climate, after the french and the dutch votes, people often see the council and the commission – the commission in particular – as aloof from parliament, the only democratically elected body that represents the electorate. mr adamou quite rightly mentioned annex i and i am grateful to him for going through all the technical details for something we totally accept and agree with. this report is a triumph for parliament and i am delighted that we have come up with a compromise package. i am just sorry the commissioner is unable to listen to what we are saying and is too busy texting people.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i should like to congratulate mr freitas on his excellent work on this report. as we know, it concerns the 2 billion dollar tuna industry. we all eat tuna and we are all familiar with the wide range of dolphin-friendly labels that appear on tuna cans and jars. these labels have, until now, been unregulated, confusing and often misleading. this initiative seeks to change that. the freitas report shows why the governments of 15 countries in latin america and central america have joined with the eu and the us to support the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme (aidcp). the eastern pacific fleet targets large, mature yellow-fin tuna that swim beneath schools of dolphins, sometimes 20 000 strong. if any dolphins are caught in the tuna nets, up to half a dozen hardy fishermen with diving equipment jump into the nets to herd the dolphins to one end, where they jump to safety over the cork lines. only when the last dolphin has been freed is the net hauled on board. there is no by-catch of any kind associated with this method of tuna fishing. trained government observers are on board every tuna boat; vessels are licensed only if they have no record of violations; skippers must be trained and qualified; and by utilising that exhaustive system, dolphin deaths in the eastern pacific have been dramatically reduced from 350 000 per year in the 1980s to fewer than 1 600 per year at present. of an estimated population of over 10 million dolphins in the eastern pacific alone, this is really insignificant. that is why greenpeace and the world wildlife fund support this fishing method in preference to others where there is a large by-catch. eu support for the aidcp label has posed a significant threat to some ngos, which have hijacked the international tuna industry and become its de facto regulators. one californian ngo, in particular, has become enormously rich by receiving a payment for every can of tuna carrying its dolphin-friendly label. the fishing method that this ngo supports may well be dolphin-friendly, but it causes the death of tens of thousands of sharks as well as leatherback turtles and even young, immature yellow-fin tuna, which are tossed dead back into the sea. it is outrageous that this organisation now holds the international tuna industry to ransom, threatening to blacklist on their website any supermarkets that refuse to sell cans of tuna carrying their dolphin-safe labels. members of this house have even received hostile, threatening and aggressive e-mails from the organisation this week. their days are now numbered. the aidcp label received unanimous support in the committee on fisheries and i believe that it will be supported by the majority of members of this house today.
on behalf of the pse group .– mr president, i support this report by mr freitas and think that the european parliament should give a positive response to the report, the proposal for a council decision and the conclusion by the european community of the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme known as the aidcp. i think that dolphins would vote for it if they could! the goal of the aidcp is progressively to reduce incidental dolphin mortalities in the tuna purse seine fishery in the eastern pacific ocean. the aim is to reach zero levels through the setting of annual limits and the long-term sustainability of tuna stock in the agreement area. i also welcome the fact that the wwf and greenpeace are supporting and promoting the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme because it is a legally binding instrument that consolidates the results of an effort of interested governments, the tuna industry and the environmental community that, in less than 20 years, has led to a dramatic reduction of the mortality of dolphins in the eastern pacific ocean. more than 100 000 dolphins were killed in 1986 but thanks to this scheme fewer than 1500 were killed in 2004. the aidcp has established two systems: the tuna tracking and verification system, and the dolphin-safe certification system. many of us like to eat tuna and european consumers consume over 530 000 tonnes each year. most consumers would like to know that the tuna we eat has not resulted in dolphin by-catch deaths. the accuracy of some supermarket dolphin-safe labels has been questioned and according to the wwf the aidcp systems for tuna tracking and dolphin-safe certification together represent at present the only programme that can guarantee consumers that the tuna labelled as 'aidcp dolphin-safe' has in fact been caught without killing or seriously injuring dolphins. these outstanding results are obtained mainly through a system of independent observers on board, which is the only system that guarantees the coverage of 100% of the fishing trips by large tuna purse seiners in the eastern pacific ocean and a set of stringent technical and operative requirements. the new label which will be introduced in the eu now guarantees consumers that no dolphins have been killed. people's purchasing power has won the day. the international fishing community has now woken up to the fact that consumers will not accept unnecessary deaths or damage to our environment in the food and fisheries industries. i urge colleagues to support this report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, as well as questioning the legitimacy of the eu entering into the international dolphin conservation programme instead of individual states, i would also question whether the eu can be trusted to make the right judgment. let us consider the facts. the eu is the body whose common fisheries policy has created massive iniquities. take the unfair treatment of united kingdom fishermen, now, thanks to brussels, struggling to survive, while spanish fishermen, for example, seem able to flout the rules at will. consider, too, the appalling depletion of fish stocks in eu waters as a direct result of the cfp. then there is the fact that one million tonnes of dead fish are thrown back into the north sea every year. not only is it hugely wasteful, it is also damaging the ecosystem. evidence, indeed, of the law of unintended consequences. the eu has also concluded unfair and immoral fishing agreements with many third world countries in africa, which allow european factory farming boats, not unlike the ones that pose a threat to dolphins, to come down and plunder african seas of all their fish. so badly has that hit the local economies that local fishermen have now turned to hunting in their hinterland, destroying local wild animal stocks. these debt-ridden countries have little option but to accept grossly inadequate sums of money for this presumed privilege. it is therefore no surprise to me to see the eu attempt to sign up to an agreement that has been condemned by dolphin conservationists. why, after all, should the eu listen to experts? vessels participating in this programme are allowed a dolphin mortality limit. explosives and speedboats are commonly used to scare dolphins and the programme even allows the deliberate killing of these animals, with over 1 400 observed dead last year, according to the earth island institute’s “dolphin safe” programme. if the eu were genuine about this sort of issue, it would adopt the position taken by the united kingdom and ban pair trawling. after all, we in britain have made some good decisions. we stayed out of the euro zone, our prime minister has probably dealt a mortal blow to the proposed constitution, but, instead of following good practice, the eu seeks to sign up to a questionable agreement, simply to attempt once more to justify its own dubious international status. it shows, yet again, that if the eu is the answer it must have been a very stupid question.
member of the commission. mr president, once again i wish to thank this house, and in particular the committee on fisheries and its rapporteur, mr freitas, for their cooperation. the objective is a shared one. it is important for the commission to enhance its role in regional fisheries organisations in supporting conservation measures that are put in place not only in european but also in international waters. membership of the organisation will help us attain higher standards as regards by-catches of cetaceans. since the establishment of the aidcp, the by-catch of cetaceans has dropped from 150 000 to 1 500. this in itself is a great success and worthy of support. the rapporteur and other speakers raised the issue of eco-labelling. firstly, the option of the aidcp ‘dolphin safe’ certificate by the community is currently being examined by the member states. in addition, the commission will be adopting a proposal on eco-labelling within a couple of weeks, which will clearly feed into the process of considering whether to adopt the aidcp certificate. the communication will set out three options for consideration: retaining the status quo, having a mandatory community-wide label or setting minimum criteria. at this stage, the commission is leaning towards the third option, and we look forward to a constructive debate with parliament and the council. in conclusion, i wish to assure you of the commission’s and my own personal commitment to continuing to work towards minimising discards and by-catch, especially of cetaceans. i count on the support of this house, so that we can work together in achieving improvements in our current practices and methods. with regard to the ratification process, i have taken note of your comments, and the ratification will probably take place in the near future.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission congratulates mr őry on his excellent and comprehensive report on social inclusion in the new member states. it is a very timely and helpful report, which should significantly strengthen our efforts to promote social inclusion across the union. most of the points and policy priorities recommended in the document are very much in line with, and reinforce, the commission's own analysis of the situation. the report is also very useful as it draws attention to a number of issues that require greater emphasis and more effort from member states and the commission. the importance of tackling poverty and social exclusion and building a more inclusive union was reinforced in the conclusions of the recent european council meeting in brussels. the social inclusion process will operate in parallel with and complement the lisbon agenda, focusing on economic growth and employment. in that way our efforts in the areas of economic growth, employment policy and social cohesion can reinforce each other. the ongoing mid-term evaluation of the eu's social inclusion process will, towards the end of the year, lead to a communication proposing new integrated and streamlined common objectives and working methods for the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion. the points raised in your resolution are a very valuable contribution to the current evaluation of the process. we will take them into account when we prepare our communication. we have been making significant progress on several issues raised in the report since the commission and the new member states prepared their joint memoranda on social inclusion in 2003. i should like to mention two of them: harmonisation of statistics and the exchange of learning. you rightly emphasise the importance of harmonising poverty statistics and criteria defining poverty. there has been very good cooperation between the national statistics offices and eurostat in developing our new statistical instrument, the eu survey on income and living conditions, eu-silc. that will certainly help us monitor progress across the union. as regards the exchange of good practice, the new member states have been playing an increasingly active role in the current community action programme on social exclusion. the proposed new community action programme (progress) will, from 2007, allow us to further extend the exchange of learning and good practice. another important issue raised in the report is increasing the resources available for social inclusion matters. in this regard responsibility rests primarily with the national authorities. however, the commission put strong emphasis on ensuring that the use of european social funds is closely connected with the goals indicated in the national action plans on employment and social inclusion. as clearly stated in the resolution, improvement is required in almost all the dimensions of social life. at the same time, most new member states are undergoing difficult economic reforms and many are faced with high levels of unemployment. there are also significant budgetary constraints, which limit the room for manoeuvre for social policy. we have to be realistic and bold in addressing these major structural issues. ensuring economic and employment growth will certainly help to increase social cohesion, but investing in social inclusion and human capacity is an essential complementary element in supporting sustainable employment and economic progress. the report will help ensure that we continue to have a strong social inclusion process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, there is clearly a very real problem of social exclusion for many people in many of the new member states. this report highlights some of the problems and some of the causes. it also pinpoints some of the solutions. however, what is so impressive is that this report does not come from an mep from one of the old member states, lecturing the newcomers on what they should do to catch up; this rapporteur comes from one of the new member states. he writes with passion and knowledge about the problem, because he understands what needs to be done, because he is not afraid to pinpoint failings in his own country, and because he cares. he is a perfect example of one of the many talented meps who have joined this parliament following enlargement. he is right to flag the need for better education and right to raise the importance of increased funding by central government in this regard. he is also right to talk about improving labour mobility, because unless there is more flexibility in the labour markets, the economies cannot fulfil their growth potential and the funds will simply not be there for governments to spend. there is a lesson here, too, for older member states. finally, i welcome the wisdom of the rapporteur and i congratulate him strongly on his report. (applause)
in writing. being utterly opposed to the acquisition of statehood by the eu and the compulsion of a single foreign policy for europe, i voted against the resolution urging that reform of the un should embrace a seat for the eu. this is a resolution driven by those consumed by a fanatical desire to usurp national authority and status. in my view only nation states can and should represent their citizens in the united nations, with each free to determine their own foreign policy. with the defeated eu constituion there is now even less justification than ever for this foolish proposal.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party shares the endorsement given in this resolution to the reports by the high level panel and the un secretary general, on reform of the united nations. the eplp also fully supports reform of the un security council, in order that it better reflects today's world, and calls for further improvements in the way that the eu speaks at the un. however, it is inappropriate to talk of an eu seat, as the un charter does not allow for organisations such as the eu to become members. we would not wish to prejudge the outcome of the intergovernmental conference.
draftsman.– mr president, i do not want to say very much about this report other than to echo some of the remarks that have been made by the rapporteur. since the break-up of the soviet union, the south caucasus countries have clearly been through a very difficult period and some of them are making better progress than others. i think we all want to see the human rights situation improved. there are a number of internal conflict situations that are causing considerable concern and i think that we in this parliament should be adding our support to the president and to the authorities in azerbaijan. my group will be supporting the first, but not the second, part of the verts/ale group amendment after recital j. however, i urge all colleagues to give their support to this resolution and we should do what we can to assist the people of azerbaijan.
author.– mr president, azerbaijan became independent after the collapse of the soviet union in 1991, but has lost 16% of its previous territory in a short-lived war over the ethnic armenian territory of ngorno karabakh with neighbouring armenia and must now support some 570 000 internally-displaced persons. corruption is endemic in azerbaijan and the promise of wealth from its oil reserves is, as yet, unrealised. it suffers from terrible ecological problems in the caspian sea as a result of ddt and toxic defoliants used in cotton farming. it enjoys close military and political links with turkey, and the eu has strong interests in securing the energy corridor that supplies western countries with its oil and gas, and also maintaining azeri cooperation in the fight against international terrorism in the face of recent allegations from russian sources that azerbaijan has supported chechen separatists. president aliyev was elected in october 2003 in a contested and deeply-flawed election condemned by international observers. but azerbaijan’s president has committed himself now to holding free and fair parliamentary elections this november. the 4 june opposition rally went peacefully, as just two weeks previously police had beaten back opposition protestors who tried to hold a rally in baku despite an official ban, and dozens were arrested. the final decision regarding the location of the rally was taken after negotiations between the baku mayor and opposition leaders, who have now warned of dire consequences if falsification is used again in the november elections. some observers even predict that azerbaijan will eventually see an uprising similar to those that occurred in the toppled regimes of georgia, ukraine and kyrgyzstan. the recent unsolved murder of monitor magazine editor-in-chief, elmar huseynov, has raised accusations of government involvement and a relative of the exiled former speaker and opposition figure, rasul gouliev, the uk citizen almaz gouliev, has been arrested on the allegedly trumped-up charge of a pistol being found in her bag, apparently in order to deter mr gouliev from returning for the elections. azerbaijan is clearly far from being a model democratic and stable council of europe state and the eu must now do everything possible to promote democracy and human rights there.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i echo the fine speech of my group colleague, mrs isler béguin, in stressing how important the timing of this resolution is to azerbaijan as it faces elections. i visited the region last month with scottish parliament colleagues, because we are keen to reach out to these countries with our experience of social democratic and civic nationalism. in that region, the events in one country all too often have serious ramifications in another. in that vein, i would commend to you in particular paragraph 10 of the resolution and the reference to the fragile civil society in azerbaijan, because that is the key to a long-term solution for the region’s problems. it is not for us to tell azerbaijan, georgia or armenia how to run their affairs, but with the benefit of our experience we can reach out to a region that is looking to the eu for help, inspiration and perhaps even leadership. i hope this resolution will give an added impetus to the union’s dealings with this troubled region and the positive experience that we can bring to its future.
on behalf of the alde group.– thank you, mr president. president-in-office, if the luxembourg presidency has failed your expectations, i hope you will not blame yourself. president-in-office, liberals and democrats in this house applaud your attempts to keep the eu show on the road. you tried hard to strike the deals europe needs. your lack of success was not for lack of effort. your final summit was doomed from the moment france voted to reject the constitution. the triumphalism of the ‘no’ voters, however, will be short lived. in greek tragedy, actors often deepen their own plight while believing that their actions will help them to escape it. so is the case with the french oppositionnistes and the socialists who were their cheerleaders. their votes will bring to bear the very changes they most fear. at least in greek tragedy the audience is permitted to understand what is happening. that luxury is available to many of us only with hindsight some time after the referendums. i suspect that you, president-in-office, through your passionate commitment to the european cause, which i welcome, were unable to stand back and look objectively at the impact on your presidency of the week of 29 may 2005. had you done so you might have looked upon that week as a defining moment in the history of a european union that will never be the same again. hence your final summit was characterised not by the pockets of resistance of which you spoke optimistically, but by a fight between two ailing dinosaurs, britain and france. unable to admit that national sovereignty is a luxury of the past, they persist in trying to impose their order on others. britain seeks a british europe rather than a european britain. france is just as insular without the excuse of being an island. both harbour a dangerous illusion, for there can be only one europe, truly european. that europe must have the necessary funding to function. the insistence by some member states on one per cent of gni would deprive us of the lisbon investment, as indeed your final proposal might have done. it is perhaps better to have no agreement and to re-think both how we raise money and how we spend it, than to reach agreement at any cost. but to those who seek to use these setbacks to re-establish an iron curtain, i would quote robert schuman, who said in 1949: ‘i have no intention of drawing a geographical line of demarcation between europe and non-europe. there is another way of setting limits: that which distinguishes those who have the european spirit and those who have not.’ president-in-office, the franco-german motor of european integration on which your presidency relied is kaput. we need another motor to replace it. it must be neither british nor french. the union must recognise that it has moved on from reconciliation and security of food supply to other demands of a rapidly changing world: a world that will not wait for europe. so do not allow this pause for reflection to be a period of paralysis. go home and make sure you win your referendum. then mobilise the other smaller states to prevent the prehistoric predators from destroying what has been built. take satisfaction from the achievements of your presidency: the agreement on the euro-vignette for transport infrastructure charging; the action plan for the hague programme; the agreement on a european driving licence; and, with luck, even the elusive members’ statute to demonstrate the maturity of this house. all of these mark good progress for the union, and you may well conclude that you are left with more than just an overflowing ashtray. as aristotle taught us, we may not always achieve our goals, but it is our pursuit of them that changes the course of history. (applause)
madam president, for the first time in my life i find myself in the strange position of agreeing at least in some respects with tony blair. i believe he is right to call for a fundamental reform of the way the eu is funded, with particular focus on the common agricultural policy. it cannot be right that in a union of 25 member states, 42 per cent of our budget goes to the cap, while less than 4 per cent of our workforce work in agriculture. nor can it be right that although the cap cake has to be shared between 25 member states, one country gets a gigantic 23.4 per cent slice. how can we tolerate a system that sees the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, sitting in session here in brussels, demanding quite correctly ever more draconian regulations on the sale and marketing of tobacco products that kill half a million of our citizens every year, while across the corridor the committee on agriculture and rural development is happily voting for an annual subsidy to europe’s tobacco farmers of more than eur 1 billion? reform, however, is needed across a much wider field than simply the cap. the people of france and the netherlands showed us that we have lost touch with our own electors. it was a valuable lesson that we would do well to learn. our brave words about achieving the goals of the lisbon strategy, about facing up to the challenges of globalisation, about increased competitiveness and economic reform are never matched by brave deeds. we have virtually abandoned the stability and growth pact; we have begun a predictable and wholescale retreat from the services directive; we voted in this house to end the opt-out on the working time directive, and meanwhile the commission is preparing to unveil another 900 new directives: more red tape, more bureaucracy, more interference in the lives of our citizens. do we really believe that this will increase our competitive advantage in the global market? do we think this will achieve the goals of the lisbon strategy? i do not think so. it was a wake-up call from the french and the dutch. wake up and smell the coffee!
mr president, when mr juncker came to this parliament in january to set out his presidency’s priorities, the uk independence party reminded him that he had spoken about a window of opportunity to cut a quick deal on the eu budget, including the british rebate. we pointed out that mr juncker was under the impression that he could revise in just six months arrangements that had taken five years to negotiate. i do not know whether mr juncker was being naive or arrogant, but last week he counted the cost of it. it has been suggested in the media that mr blair allowed the rebate to be discussed when such discussions were not necessary, thereby falling into a trap laid by president chirac who wished to distract attention from the french ‘no’ vote. in fact the rebate was always going to be discussed last week because mr juncker was determined it should be. his window of opportunity was almost closed, the curtain rapidly falling across his presidency. mr juncker is right about one thing: the eu is in profound crisis and for that we can look back in gratitude upon his six months at its helm. i would also like to thank mr juncker for his verdict on the french and dutch ‘no’ votes. his quote, ‘i want to believe obstinately that neither the french or the dutch have rejected the constitutional treaty’, will go down in history as being typical of the attitude of the eu’s political elite in the 21st century. i come from devon, where we are often referred to as simple country folk. despite – or perhaps because of – my simplistic outlook on life, i found the eu constitution incredibly easy to understand. it is abundantly clear that if you wish to see your country retain its independence, you have to vote ‘no’. clearly the french and the dutch share a devonian’s ability to understand it. what part of the word ‘no’ does mr juncker not understand?
mr president, for those who still cling to the european dream, mr juncker’s presidency has been a stunning failure. under it the precious constitution has been shipwrecked on the rocks of rejection and the budget is an unmitigated shambles, with rancour, as in mr juncker’s speech today, being its currency. from this, however, some good could come. if the effect was to jolt european leaders into the same reality stream that many of their people already occupy, then a workable europe could emerge. root and branch changes are essential, in which the primacy of the nation state should be reestablished and brussels centralisation reversed, with wide-ranging powers repatriated to national governments and parliaments. a europe built on sovereign states trading and cooperating for mutual benefit, and not for the unworkable, unwanted ever-closer union, has some hope of success. this present europe, as your presidency demonstrates, mr juncker, cannot work.
mr president, last week’s european council was a clear reminder that the european union cannot carry on with business as usual following the french and dutch votes on the constitution. the decision to pause for reflection on the constitution merely underlines a lack of direction across europe. when two founding member states reject the constitution with no expectation of holding a second vote, it is hard to see the logic of continuing the ratification process. we would have preferred the council to have acted decisively, accepted the will of the voters and moved on. of course there still is a time for a real debate about europe’s future. like the british government, we believe that europe must face up to some profound questions. the move to political integration has reached its high water mark. it is against this backdrop that, with respect, i have to disagree with the president-in-office when he said that he did not believe the french or the dutch voters rejected the constitution. such statements damage the relationship between politicians and the people, and if ever there was a time for politicians to demonstrate that they are listening, it is now. it would be folly for europe’s leaders just to ignore the reality of what has happened. this crisis was avoidable: for many years my party has argued for a more flexible europe. for too long the european integration process has carried on as a project of the political elite. that is now over and we, the representatives of the people, are now charged with conducting further debate on the kind of europe we want to see. those of us who have opposed that integration process have often been criticised, and many in this chamber believe it is the only way forward, but it is not. in the coming months we will argue positively and enthusiastically for a different kind of europe that goes with the grain of public opinion and not against it; a europe that gets away from the obsessions of the past and moves forward with the people’s real agenda, which is jobs, growth and prosperity. that is the way to re-engage the electorate with the european union. i regret that on this occasion the council failed to show the necessary leadership.
mr president, sadly, i do not believe that the statements given here today deliver on the expectations of our citizens. they do little to restore the credibility of the eu as a global player. furthermore they will not deliver on a forward-thinking budget that the 21st century eu requires. the opportunity to overhaul the eu budget and to leave behind the antiquated system has, i believe, been missed both by the commission and the council. we are now faced with a budget where the only flagship policy is agriculture. this does little to captivate the imagination and aspirations of those we serve and has huge anomalies – not least vis-à-vis luxembourg, the richest eu country and, at the same time, the largest net beneficiary. the europe of today needs to face up to the challenges ahead and we need to learn this lesson now. our citizens want us to create a better europe, which means more economic growth and employment stability. therefore, mr president-in-office, how can you justify cuts in the very areas that people want in terms of research funding, growth and jobs? clearly we are not listening or delivering on our citizens’ priorities. finally, with regard to transparency, many people are asking why these talks are taking place behind closed doors. i suggest that if the council wants to connect with the people out there, then it should leave these doors open and let the citizens hear the debate. all i can say is that i hope the uk presidency will make this its number one priority. roll on the british presidency!
mr president, i would like to join those who have congratulated the president-in-office of the european council, mr juncker, for the real efforts that he made to try and reach a decision on these very difficult and complex issues at the european council last week. in retrospect we realise that mr schulz was right that we in the parliament had done our work, the commission had done its work, but the council, for reasons of overcharge on its agenda, had not actually done the real thinking on the financial perspective. therefore, to have completed a deal within the space of two weeks was perhaps a little bit beyond the capacity of the union. no deal is better than a bad deal. now we need to look forward and there are four points i will raise quickly. the first is to have a real debate about priorities of the union. how can you have a financial perspective unless you know what the policy priorities are going to be? part of that must be the economic reform agenda. mr watson referred to the uk and france being in jurassic park. i think the economies of france and germany are the dinosaurs in jurassic park. we have to make sure that there is an economic dynamism that shows we can be competitive in the global economy. second, we need to be able to fix a budget deal. not, as mr barroso said, to have a seven year deal with a review. let us come back to what we said in the berger resolution and have a five-year deal, allowing the commission and parliament to review it in 2011. this way we can see how far we are going without having to predict what our expenditure will be too far into the future. in reconsidering that option we need to do more, as mr virrankoski said, on co-financing on agriculture. third – and i include two last points here – we need to look at the question of the constitutional treaty. i welcome the suspension of ratification, because there are many things that are needed in terms of transparency, accountability, democracy and inclusion of national parliaments. this will be essential for a union of the future. last, but not least, is the question of enlargement. mr president-in-office, what you do not do when you are putting a house in order is put up a new annex and then try to make sure you are still expanding. let us, as mr nassauer said, focus on what is really essential for our european citizens and then think about enlargement, if necessary, a little bit further on.
mr president, as my group’s coordinator on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency for the outstanding work it has done, not just on moving to close a number of crucial files such as unfair commercial practices, but also in its very strong engagement with the work of our committee and its very strong commitment to the internal market. i particularly want to thank the luxembourg presidency for the fact that, under the leadership of minister krecké, it has moved forward with the vital work on the services directive. i am delighted that there has been no question of the luxembourg presidency being intimidated by noises off from certain great figures in european politics about the problems with that directive, of how they have sorted it out, and of how they have killed the directive in some cases. president-in-office, i have been pleased that you have been as committed to the vital project to complete the internal market as we are on our side, and we will continue to work strongly with the british presidency to bring it to a conclusion and to build on the work that you have done. if i may, i would like to link that point to some of the important remarks that the president-in-office made this afternoon. i wanted to pick out one aspect where i disagreed with him: he said that one of the choices we are faced with at the moment is between a free market and a stronger political union. i would suggest, colleagues, that is not the choice at all. we have moved far beyond a free market already: an internal market is an entirely different proposition. it is a major political and economic force. our citizens want and understand that, but i ask those of you still here in the chamber how many of your electors know what a political union is, and know in what direction it is taking us? surely one of the reasons why the constitution was rejected so soundly in holland and france was because people do not understand what a political union is. they actually feel threatened by the potential loss of sovereignty that it implies. therefore, let us get on with the internal market. we may want to review where the political union goes and the changes we make to the constitution, but the internal market must continue to be the driving force during the british presidency.
president of the council. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you all, on behalf of the president-in-office of the european council, on my own behalf, on behalf of all the other presidents of the various council configurations, and also on behalf of the entire luxembourg presidency, for the congratulations, the positive comments and, above all, the encouragement you have given during this debate. europe is facing serious difficulties, but i believe that these difficulties can help us. first, by concentrating on a thorough reflection on the evolution of this europe. this is what has been decided, a reflection, not in a closed circle, in a closed environment, but a reflection-debate, a reflection-dialogue with the citizens on the path of european integration that we must pursue. i believe that if the current difficulties help us to open these windows, to open this debate, eventually they will have served something. some have suggested that the negative votes were motivated by a number of concerns expressed by citizens, including social concerns or those raised by globalisation. in short, all this must be included in this debate, in this dialogue with the citizens. the luxembourgers are taking the risk of the election debate, the referendum debate: we are the ones who have kept the date of 10 july. it is a courageous decision, but it is a decision which was demanded by the luxembourg people. well, i trust him and i believe that this vote on 10 july will send a clear message of continuity with the constitution. i am confident and i hope that after this vote, which i hope and i hope will be positive, parliament will take over so that the constitution does not disappear into a refrigerator. i thought that refrigerators had been abolished with the reform of agricultural policy, since we no longer had mountains of butter. now i hear that the constitution is being put in the fridge, the financial perspective in the fridge. no, europe does not need to hibernate, europe needs action. europe needs a clear path. so now it's time to pass the torch. we could have reached an agreement on the financial perspective, and it is extremely regrettable that we did not. i believe that mr juncker has made a report as transparent as mr bonde has always wanted it to be, as transparent as possible. we have talked a lot about the different aspects of the negotiation. we came close to an agreement because we know that if there had been a real dynamic of agreement, those who refused us in the end would have joined it. they didn't because the dynamic of the deal failed for reasons you know. there have also been many reasons for not accepting this agreement. so i have a bad feeling that, in the end, the reasons are more of an excuse than real reasons. if the reform becomes a pretext for not adopting important decisions for europe, it is doing europe a disservice. i say this, and mr juncker said it: we were prepared to make a substantial commitment to reform in a declaration. well, this commitment could not be made because, in the end, there was no final decision on the financial perspective. reform, yes, but reform in solidarity. we cannot reform without the people. we cannot reform without solidarity with all. agricultural policy has also been the subject of much criticism. it is all too easy to forget that there are still fundamental achievements in this agricultural policy. so who in europe wants to see the desertification of square kilometres of rural land? who wants to? who wants to see rural populations impoverished? who wants it? i think we must discuss the agricultural policy again and not blame it for all its shortcomings, demonize it in a way. i think we need to be a little more frank about this. above all, and i agree with mr baringdorf on this point, is everyone so innocent when we discuss agricultural policy? does everyone think only of reforming it in one way and not of reforming it in another? i believe that you will have many more opportunities to discuss reforms, including the common agricultural policy. but let us not forget that there is also solidarity with the rural world, which is also a part of european culture. i am of course sorry that europe has not found the positive momentum it could have gained from the adoption of a better stability pact, and above all from a revision of the lisbon strategy. we lack the financial prospects. i wish the next presidency good luck in finding an acceptable and balanced agreement - indeed, someone has spoken of a balanced agreement - taking into account mr böge's report, which was adopted by your parliament by a very large majority. the council's agreement was an agreement which should have been negotiated with your parliament anyway, so it is an illusion to think that the council alone decides the financial perspective, since it is clear that it can only reach an agreement in the interinstitutional framework with the consent of your parliament and, of course, also of the commission. we've been talking a lot about the recent return. i believe that this is a virus that is eating away at european solidarity and must be eradicated. europe really needs to be vaccinated against this narrow idea of just return. i will not talk about the definition of the richest countries, i do not want to get into that kind of discussion, but what i see is that we cheated a lot with the numbers. a great deal of cheating has been done to justify positions which, if clarified a little more, would already appear to be much more nuanced. i do not want to conclude this review of the luxembourg presidency without stressing, as mr harbour has done, that while there has been a failure in the financial perspective, there have also been many successes. europe continues to work in other areas that are important to the people of europe. i note, for example, that there has been agreement, also thanks to your parliament, on the code on external borders: it is fundamental to have more security at the external borders and i believe that your parliament will vote on it again this session. it is a success which should not be underestimated, which should not be drowned out by an overly negative discourse on the present state of europe. i also note that there have been a dozen first reading agreements with your parliament on important matters such as crossborder mergers or the internal market. i think these are important achievements which should not be underestimated. the same applies to agreements at second reading, and without conciliation, in an area such as car insurance, which is very concrete for the citizen who travels, who crosses borders. yes, europe is facing serious difficulties, but i believe that you too now have a part of its destiny in your hands. we want to open a debate. this debate must take place here, it must take place in national parliaments, in our public opinion. well, i wish you all the courage and all the creativity you have shown in fuelling this debate, so that we can get out of the difficulty as quickly as possible. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to join all those who have expressed their sincere admiration and gratitude to jean-claude juncker, minister schmit and their team for their engagement, the passion and what i would like to call the sense of europe that they have demonstrated. we often talk about the sense of state in relation to great statesmen and women, but it is high time to introduce the concept of a sense of europe, and this is what mr juncker especially has shown throughout the luxembourg presidency. i would like to add that we also greatly appreciate the transparency and openness that you have introduced, mr juncker. of course, we should also highlight the successes that you have been able to achieve in a highly difficult political context. however, this debate on the luxembourg presidency has turned into a debate on the european crisis. the most significant expression of this crisis is perhaps the feeling of confusion that we now perceive among the public and in the very basic questions that citizens have started to ask. what will happen to the constitution? what does it mean if we cannot have a constitution in the end? how will this affect enlargement? has it already started to affect enlargement? in the different regions of europe, they have already started to ask very basic questions about the budget. what will happen? will we get our money? what happens to all our projects? may i just say to mr harbour and others that we should not underestimate the citizens of europe. throughout europe they know that europe is not only about a market. it is also about quality of life and they expect the european union to deliver and to establish policies which affect their quality of life, the environment and all the other issues that are so important for our everyday lives. these are the questions that european citizens will continue to put to all our institutions and it is our joint responsibility to provide the answers, as far as we can. the european union is a unique creation. it works on the basis of this very constructive, or hopefully constructive, interaction of the ‘institutional triangle’. however, the outcome of the european council this weekend seems to show that one of the corners is somehow broken. that puts a bigger responsibility on the other two corners, the commission and parliament, but in this debate i have seen that there is a willingness and determination to work together. mr juncker referred to the institutional maturity that the parliament has shown. we have seen this, for example, on the occasion of the recent parliament resolution on the financial perspective. as president barroso said earlier, the commission stands ready to assist the incoming presidency to find an agreement on the future financial perspectives. we however have to bear in mind three crucial points. first, we need the resources to implement those policies on which the citizens expect the union to deliver, and we need the budget for that. a deal that does not secure those resources will not allow us to bridge the gap between citizens and europe. second, this house must accept the agreement. third, it must meet the legitimate needs of the new member states who have shown their constructive attitude during the summit meeting. the main challenge for the months to come is the launch of a real dialogue on the future of europe. the european council has called for that dialogue in which the commission is also invited to play a central role. we will of course give shape to what we call plan d: debate, dialogue and democracy. we will work with the other institutions and we will try to mobilise the necessary resources for this. the commission will accept its responsibility and we will also immediately start to work on the ‘strategic roadmap’, which will hopefully provide some more of the responses to the very basic questions that i mentioned before. we will, more than ever, need the input, cooperation and support of this house and all of those, who like mr juncker, have developed the sense of europe and are ready to respond to his very solemn invitation. courage, les européens!
thank you, mrs wallström. i hope the european parliament and the national parliaments can play a little role in the plan d you put forward with the council and commission. i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will be at noon tomorrow. written statement (rule 142)
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, we are nearly there: a members’ statute that has alluded us for so long. this must be the best chance we have ever had and, on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency and you for getting us this far. of course it is a compromise, but it is an important compromise for two reasons: equal pay for equal work – and that means equal; fair treatment for all our colleagues. this, of course, is between ourselves, but it is a small step forward for europe. secondly, and probably more important, between our citizens and ourselves it will finally deliver a transparent system of expenses based on actual cost. we will be cleaning up our act and removing a constant cause for public criticism. this is a bigger step for europe and the european parliament as it confirms its maturity. the alde group will take a principled line of voting against all amendments, including recital 12. that is not because we do not think some of the amendments have merit. of course we want a better language regime in this house; of course we want a statute for assistants; of course we want the pension fund sorted out; of course we would like earlier implementation. however, what we most want is a members’ statute and any amendment could risk destroying the delicate balance in this house and with the council. if this fails, let it be council’s fault, not this parliament’s. any amendment could potentially be a wrecking amendment in this situation. this house must show its full maturity and restraint tomorrow, vote for the essential and deliver a members’ statute for the european parliament.
(the speaker spoke in irish)
mr president, as an irish speaker i welcome the decision to accord the status of official working language of the european union to the irish language. i extend congratulations and heartfelt thanks to all of those involved in the status campaign to achieve the status of official working language of the european union for the irish language. i ask the president of the parliament to convey to the council our satisfaction in this matter and would ask also that everything possible be done between now and 1 january 2007 to meet the needs that arise from this new status, and to ensure that the european parliament and the other eu institutions will be able to provide the appropriate services in irish.
president of the council. mr president, two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the schengen agreements. these agreements have opened up a new dimension, a new perspective in europe. i believe that the regulation we are discussing tonight, which marks an agreement at first reading between parliament and the council, is a good sign twenty years after the conclusion of the schengen agreements. we have achieved a goal in this respect, a goal which was set for us by the thessaloniki european council of 19 and 20 june 2004. we have therefore achieved this objective in a fairly short time, because the revision of the regulation is aimed at eliminating obsolete provisions from the manual and at developing and clarifying certain other provisions on the basis of an analysis of the problems encountered on the ground, at the union's borders or at internal borders. the regulation goes beyond a mere reworking, however, since it establishes a genuine code relating to the regime for crossing borders by persons, with not only an external border component but also, as i have already said, an internal border component, given the undeniable complementarity between these two components. in addition, the regulation solves the problem of the ambiguous legal basis of the handbook by creating a genuine legal act containing all the basic principles and rules on borders. the internal borders component shall include the provisions of the schengen convention on the abolition of checks on persons at internal borders and on procedures for the temporary reintroduction of checks in the event of a threat to public policy or internal security of a member state. this regulation adapts them to the community institutional framework. as regards external borders, the basic principles of external border control contained in the schengen convention and in certain parts of the common manual have been essentially taken over. the practical arrangements for implementing this control are set out in the annexes and are for the most part subject, like the body of the text, to the codecision procedure. work on the community code began on 2 july 2004 under the dutch presidency and was continued in an intensive manner throughout the luxembourg presidency. at coreper on 1 june, general agreement was reached on the text of the code and on 13 june the compromise amendments were adopted unanimously by the committee on civil liberties. the community code is the first instrument in the field of asylum, immigration, visas and borders which is co-decision with parliament. the adoption of the first reading is therefore of great importance in establishing a relationship of trust between parliament and the council and in setting a precedent so as to make future work on the matters examined in codecision more effective. it also shows that codecision is not an instrument to delay progress but, on the contrary, to make it happen faster and more efficiently and, above all, in a stronger democratic context. the presidency would like to thank your parliament and especially your rapporteur, mr cashman, for working with the presidency, with the council, in a spirit of openness, transparency, but also trust. this cooperation has led to compromises which the three institutions can now agree to. the amendments tabled by parliament ensure that the code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers is more transparent and provides better protection for citizens of the european union and of third countries. i think we have heard a lot about the crisis today, the crisis of the european union. we have enormous difficulties, and i believe that the act which we are about to adopt at first reading tonight and which will be adopted tomorrow shows that the european union is capable of making decisions, of making progress in the interests of its citizens and, above all, as i have already said, democratically, with parliamentary support. i think this is important because, in a field which primarily concerns the citizens, codecision is finally taking place today thanks to the application of the treaty of amsterdam. the presidency would also like to thank the commission for its efforts and for the valuable technical knowledge it has brought to the table throughout the work, without which the code would not have been possible. so i think this is a good night. we are about to adopt an important document and i thank the presidency, parliament and the commission for their cooperation.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am pleased to note tonight, as minister schmit has just said, that we are achieving a very positive example of institutional cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, and that we are doing so with a tool, the codecision procedure, which today finds here its first really important application in a matter which affects the daily lives of citizens. the rapporteur has certainly done an extraordinary job, and the same goes for the presidency. the luxembourg presidency has rightly made the effort - and the commission has always supported this effort - to deliver a balanced measure to parliament's vote at first reading. the merits of this measure are many and it is difficult to list them in a few minutes: the first is the balance struck between the need to uphold the principle of free movement of persons within the union and the equally strong demand for effective controls at the external borders of the european union. the other great achievement is that it has adapted to the context of the european union certain procedures which were born in a purely intergovernmental context. we've made a step forward. i am thinking of the principle of reintroducing internal border controls for obviously police reasons, for genuine security reasons: the matter was extremely delicate, and any misstep would have been very counterproductive. there is also a positive for the commission: the involvement and active participation of the commission in the process of reintroducing controls. this is another sign, i think important, of how the european commission can make a constant and - i am sure of it and i will of course endeavour to do so - constructive contribution to the optimal application of this regulation. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that these are the signals that the citizens of europe are expecting. they are signs of confidence in a europe, in a european union, which is alive, which can continue to progress and achieve concrete results. security and freedom are two pillars of the european union, and the balance is good in this measure, i would say an exemplary case to remember.
rapporteur.– mr president, it has been a real privilege to work on this dossier, primarily because when we began people told us we would not complete it under the austrian presidency, let alone under the luxembourg presidency. the importance of this has been underlined by the previous speakers. it is the first time that the parliament has acted in codecision in the area of asylum, immigration and border control. it is extremely important that the parliament dealt with this dossier in a mature, reasonable and practicable way. wish lists are for the past. of course we have not achieved everything that we in parliament wanted; as we know that is the nature of compromise. that is not to say that compromise is a bad word, it is a brilliant word. compromise is the whole notion on which the european project was built in the early 1950s and in 1957. i am proud that today we are legislating. in this house, and indeed in our other institutions, we talk too much and do not deliver enough. tonight we are legislating and bringing forward changes that will have a real effect on real lives. as was mentioned earlier, each of us, especially as politicians, can talk a defining moment into a crisis. but what do we achieve in doing this? we actually reinforce the argument from eurosceptics and the europhobes that this house means nothing and achieves nothing. we have difficulties, but out of difficulties comes a rebirth, a renaissance. without a renaissance there is nothing for the future. so, codecision does not have to be slow, but it has to be thorough and it has to be built on absolute mutual respect for each of the parties involved in the negotiations. why have we have achieved so much? because we have done it on the basis that only by acting together can we achieve more than we could ever achieve by acting alone. i have to thank my fellow rapporteurs. there have been no shadows in this report; we have been equal rapporteurs, equal participants and without them we could not have presented this document today. i would like to thank mr battilocchio for the opinion he gave on behalf of the committee on development. more importantly, i would like to thank those people who sit behind us – sometimes seen, sometimes unseen: our assistants and our advisers, without whom we could not do this work. those people are so rarely thanked. so let me say once again, we have achieved a great deal. we have reinforced the role of the parliament, especially in the re-introduction of internal borders. we have reinforced the role of the commission, but again i wish we could have done more in relation to spot checks on the application of the schengen acquis, which was not possible. i wanted us to have a right of appeal or for the european court of justice to have jurisdiction. we did not achieve this, but we achieved a great deal more. on non-discrimination akin to article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam, for example, there is the right of people undergoing second line checks to have those checks conducted with dignity and, if necessary, in a non-public area. on refusal of entry, there will be clearer explanations of the justification of that refusal and the right of appeal once the appellant has returned to their country of origin. and where appeals are successful, the necessary compensation will be provided according to national law and corrections. we have reinforced and upheld the principle of freedom of movement for eu citizens and others with a right to reside which, in a eurobarometer poll, was seen as the single biggest benefit of being in the european union. as an inclusion to the main body of text, the annexes are extremely important when we come to adopt and review this regulation in future. regular reports on the implementation of the regulation are to be compiled by the commission. also, very importantly, there is the declaration by the council and the parliament on the issue of stateless citizens which states that ‘the european parliament and the council request the commission to bring forward proposals, in the framework of the revision of regulation (ec) no 539/2001, in order to exempt holders of aliens’ and non-citizens’ passports residing in a member state from the visa obligation’. i am proud of what we have done, i am proud of the collaboration and i now wait to hear from my co-rapporteurs.
mr president, as the final member speaking in this debate can i emphasise that i was not a shadow, but i have learned a great deal from the way mr cashman has achieved agreement on the most difficult of subjects, dealing with sensitive issues like the reintroduction of border checks, creating a balance between security post-9/11 and all the benefits of schengen free movement and respecting the dignity of people, particularly from third countries, who want to enter the union. doing all of that within a codecision procedure is a great achievement and we have learned a lot from the way that cooperation has taken place. it is also a great success because members like me have observed that reaching a compromise between security at border control on the one hand, and fairness on the other, is very difficult. therefore i commend in this report – the first time in a codecision report since the article 13 directives went through this parliament – the fact that we have an explicit reference to anti-discrimination and to the dignity of people while carrying out border checks. there is a huge hidden minority of people that are harassed and victimised at borders. mr cashman has understood this, he has put it explicitly in his report and he has created the balance that we all wanted to see.
mr president, i must apologise to the commissioner because, as she probably knows, i do not normally make a practice of turning up just in time to speak. unusually, everything has run very early tonight. i am pleased to be here to support mrs trautmann’s report, particularly because i was part of the delegation that went to the first world summit on the information society in december 2003 with her distinguished predecessor, erkki liikanen. i was privileged to be there in the great chamber in geneva when he made a very eloquent speech on behalf of the european union. i can tell colleagues from that experience that it is quite clear how respected the european union has been and continues to be within the whole process of developing the work of the information society. it has given a clear lead to other member states as well. i am sure that commissioner reding will want to continue that important tradition, because there is much work to be done. i want to underline two points that were emphasised to me during that time in geneva. the first is the importance of our research programme and spreading that research programme out to the less-developed world. there are many computer scientists struggling with totally inadequate facilities who would really like to be on our research networks and working with our research scientists. i know that part of the next generation of the ‘geant’ programme, which the commissioner launched last week, will address that issue. i cannot overstate the importance of that, particularly because we want those computer scientists to develop the tools, products, services and new ideas that will help their communities, whether it is in health, education or other forms of local service provision, particularly over a very widespread area and one where communications are very light. secondly, there is the importance of encouraging them to have a competitive infrastructure for telecommunications, to bring those costs down, to encourage competition so they can have the same access as us to plentiful, cheap services. if we can achieve those two things, along with the other things, it will be a tremendous advance for all those countries.
member of the commission. mr president, the question of the regulation of lloyd’s and the application of the first non-life insurance directive in the united kingdom has been debated before in this chamber. i refer to oral question b5-0010/2004 by mr perry, which was debated by parliament on 12 february 2004, and to the answer given by the commission on that occasion. the commission has always expressed the greatest sympathy for the thousands of individuals – including the petitioners – who have suffered as a result of the lloyd’s affair. the commission’s views and concerns relating to the pre-2000 uk legislation were set out clearly in its letter of formal notice of december 2001, which is now a public document. the uk authorities informed the commission that new legislation had been enacted to replace the former regime and answered further commission questions relating to that new legislation. the commission then announced that it was satisfied that those aspects of the regulatory and supervisory regime for lloyd’s under examination were compatible with the requirements of the directive. the commission has no doubt that once it had established the compatibility of the new regime for lloyd’s it had no basis for continuing the infringement proceedings it had begun with the letter of formal notice in december 2001 in relation to the old regime. the court of justice’s jurisprudence on the purpose and conduct of infringement proceedings is quite clear. the commission has always stressed to complainants that any action seeking damages for alleged incompatibility under the former regime must be undertaken exclusively before the united kingdom courts. in order to help them in their litigation in the uk against the uk government, the petitioners and many correspondents seem to seek a ruling from the commission on the compatibility or incompatibility of the former lloyd’s regime. however, only the court of justice can give such rulings. the commission voiced its concerns in its 2001 letter of formal notice but this was only the first step in a long process of argument and counter-argument that might ultimately, if it had been continued, have led to a formal hearing and ruling at the court of justice. the commission is fully aware that it is a subject of great regret to many that the legal proceedings begun with our letter were not pursued to their ultimate conclusion, but it has no doubt that its decision to discontinue the proceedings was the right one and was fully in conformity with the constant jurisprudence of the court in the matter of infringement proceedings. i have taken note of the motion for a resolution tabled for the purpose of winding up tonight’s debate on this question. the commission believes that the points addressed to it in mr perry’s report, to which the draft resolution makes reference, have all been answered. the commission made its views on the uk authorities’ responses to the letter of formal notice public when it decided to close the infringement procedure. as to the access to documents retained by the commission, i stress that these are governed by regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. the conditions for gaining access to these documents are set out in that regulation. as to the third question in mr perry’s report about possible shortcomings or omissions in the uk regime, i reiterate that the commission raised a number of questions in its letters of formal notice. i stress, however, that these were only questions. such questions do not, in themselves, constitute an opinion or judgement. the answers provided by the uk authorities satisfied the commission and led it to decide that there were no grounds to pursue the infringement procedure.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i should say first of all that i come from a lloyd’s background, although i am not a name; i never have been and i have no financial interest in any way, shape or form. my family has been associated with lloyd’s for over 200 years in one form or another and i therefore understand the marketplace and how lloyd’s functions. i have no specific animus against lloyd’s in any way, shape or form. indeed, arguably, i strongly support the organisation. but equally i support the principle of this question, which dates back – as many colleagues now know – to 1997 in terms of the petition and far longer in terms of the substance. this is about the fact that the question tabled by roy perry and now by the committee on petitions has not been answered properly. it is a measure of that concern that there is unanimity in the committee on petitions, even though there may be disagreement about the substance on the fact that this question has not been responded to properly. that is why there is a motion for a resolution attached to give power to the president of parliament to instruct the committee on legal affairs to take legal action against the commission to answer that question, if – as i suspect is already the case this evening – this has not happened. the cause for concern here is that it is a failure by the commission to respond to the committee on petitions – now in total as opposed to an individual member. the issue itself continues, as the commissioner and members know. people are still being made bankrupt and their health and their lives are still often in turmoil. this petition needs to be closed, we need answers to the question. my colleagues and i on the committee on petitions cannot agree to the petition being closed until we get the proper answers to these questions tabled now and also previously by my former colleague roy perry. the commission must answer the question properly to give at least a chance to those who have suffered at the hands of lloyd’s in this sad affair the opportunity to be able to pursue their cases. i have never been and will not be one who advises members of lloyd’s – ‘names’ – who have suffered financially to pursue a case with no expectation of success. that way lies folly and further trouble. however, i, along with colleagues who have investigated this matter, believe that it needs proper consideration. that is why the question has been tabled in the terms it has. this is no personal reflection on commissioner mccreevy, but i am not satisfied that the commission has given the proper answer. therefore, it must realise that further consequences will follow.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the commissioner is of course new to this saga, but unfortunately for many of our constituents, both in the uk and elsewhere, this is a long-running tragedy that, as we have seen, dates back to the 1970s. if we are honest, and i agree with mr medina ortega about this, we know that whatever we do may not bring a resolution to the many personal cases of loss. we do not want legal proceedings between our institutions for the sake of having legal proceedings, but we do want to do something that enhances the position and standing of parliament and europe’s institutions. the central issue here is about how the european union functions and, more particularly within your area, about how the internal market functions. it is quite simple really: a directive appears not to have been fully and properly implemented over a long period of years. eventually the member state comes into compliance 20 years after the event. that just cannot be good enough for parliament or for europe. in addition, our committee on petitions is often the first point of call. it should be an early warning system, but sometimes, as in this case, it happens after the event. the commission should always be on guard to ensure that implementation takes place properly. and if there is a query about implementation it should be prepared, given the current political climate in europe, to give unequivocal answers. parliament has always argued that correspondence regarding possible enforcement proceedings between member states and the commission should be shared. it is quite straightforward and i appreciate that your predecessor, mr bolkestein, wrote saying that there were reasons for not revealing some of the correspondence. surely, again in the current political climate, we have a duty to our citizens to get to the bottom of what happens in cases like this and to give them satisfactory answers. otherwise we have every right to expect the negative responses that we got in france and holland. if we cannot answer our citizens’ straightforward questions about how we implement eu law, then it is a poor show. i hope, commissioner, that you will be able to help us more than your predecessor could.
on behalf of the alde group.– thank you, mr president. prime minister, you take the helm of a craft lacking direction, wallowing in heavy seas. you have every opportunity to show leadership. for too long your country has been vulnerable to the caricature sketched 50 years ago by the musical comedy duo flanders and swann in their ditty ‘the english are best’, which lambasts the character of other europeans and insists ‘the english are moral, the english are good, and clever and honest .... but misunderstood’! (laughter) britain has moved on since then – heavens, even england has moved on! modern, meritocratic britain has a level of intercultural sensitivity not common to its forebears and your speech today reflects that. but one speech will not suffice to set aside years of suspicion. you need to show that britain is of europe, not just with it. (applause)that you will build on the union’s institutions, not undermine them; that your drive for reform is rooted in creating consensus, not delighting in division; that your protestant work ethic caters for a catholic sense of community. the phenomenon we call globalisation is re-shaping our world view, as you say. it opens to humankind new opportunities, yet also puts new strains on our societies. the three biggest challenges we face – third world misery and the migration it generates, climate change, internationally organised crime – all require supranational responses. you are right to direct eu priorities to meeting new global demands, complementing the work of the g8. but we look forward to seeing how you will do all that on 1% of gni. (applause)you are correct, too, that there is a cognitive dissonance between reality and political debate, that we need to get the politics right and give europe a compelling narrative. so let me give you three suggestions. first, council transparency. europe can no longer be built on secrecy and spin. if people do not understand what is happening, you cannot reproach them for rejecting it. (loud applause) change the rules of the council of ministers. the public has a right to know what is being decided in their name and by whom, even if they disagree. that is the nature of democracy. second, parliamentary scrutiny. national parliaments do not need a european constitution to scrutinise the european work of their ministers more closely, but they need to be engaged in a process of monitoring and holding ministers to account. the european parliament must also be listened to if we reject draft laws for infringing citizens’ rights or exceeding eu competences. third, public debate. this debate cannot wait for the need to underwrite a treaty that governments have already signed. did you go out and meet your trumpet-blowing people in your recent general election? as president borrell pointed out last week, the rejection of the constitution was less about the text than the context. last week le monde called you ‘le nouvel homme fort de l’europe’. show it. the eu will be leaderless for as long as its national leaders play to their public galleries. you will not secure support for supranational solutions if you claim the credit for common successes and blame brussels for every ill. stop referring to ‘europe’ as if it were a thing apart. liberals and democrats will back your presidency and your drive for better regulation. we will help you forge a financial services action plan to make money move more easily. we will support a single market in services if you protect proper public provision and if you heed our concerns for personal freedom we will tackle terrorism together with the council. we also welcome a debate on the structure of a budget inconsistent with the competitiveness and innovation foreseen in lisbon. rapid and radical reform of rural spending cannot credibly be contemplated, however, without co-financing the cap to redress french and british budget imbalances. prime minister, i welcome your speech today. it offers the promise to our continental colleagues of a less perfidious albion. heed the words of st francis of assisi, quoted on a similar occasion by one of your predecessors: bring pardon where there is injury and harmony where there is discord. that is the road to new respect for britain and the european union. (loud applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, prime minister, what a change since 1997 in terms of the rhetoric! suddenly we have a labour british prime minister talking about low growth in europe, talking about unemployment in europe, talking about the failure of european economic policies and common policies. in fact it all sounds a bit like the same sort of thing ukip has been saying for the last ten years and i am delighted to hear it. there you were at the summit last week, the tough british prime minister, and i am sure that millions of people at home were watching the early evening news saying there he is! that is our boy, he is the man that is going to stand up for british interests. in fact it seems to me that you are a europhile that has been mugged by reality. now you are going to lead a battle for the future of europe. several times in the last week you have talked about the 21st century, you have talked about the need to modernise. it seems that the devastatingly brilliant third way that you introduced into british politics is what you are going to bring in during this presidency here. the question is, will it work in the european union? i am the joint leader of the only group in this parliament that has actively been campaigning for ‘no’ votes in the constitutional referendums. so we feel that we are perhaps rather more in touch with public opinion than all the rest of the groups in this parliament. (cheers from the ind/dem group)but i have to say that you are just about the only european leader who really understands why the people of france and holland voted ‘no’. i agree with what you said earlier, i.e. that they were saying ‘no’ to the direction that the european union is going in. i am asking you in your presidency to make sure that those people in france and holland are not treated with contempt. i am asking you to make sure that the parts of the constitution such as the separate military command structure, the european space programme and the establishment of the european union foreign embassies across the world are halted because they are only given legitimacy by a constitution that is now best part dead. you have talked much in recent times about africa and i know you are very proud of the fact that the aid that will be going to africa is going up in value. however, the one thing i have spoken on more times in this house since 1999 than any other subject are the appalling european union fisheries deals with black africa. there are now over twenty of these deals in place. they are destroying any hope, any prospect for the local artisanal fishermen. we are actually killing hundreds and hundreds of local fishermen every year and what we are doing to the seas off africa is the environmental equivalent to setting fire to the serengeti. everybody here has been deaf to what i have been saying on this, but i believe there is now a body of support across this parliament to end these deals. if you really want to help africa, please, stop those deals. (applause) but of course the big challenge, and what you will be judged by, is whether you can turn this ship around; whether you can make europe more competitive; whether you can make the lisbon agenda appear to be rather more than just a child’s wish list to father christmas. of course my view – our view in ukip and most of us here on this side of the house – is that we would much rather see a common market. we would much rather see a free trade deal across europe, rather than the treaty of rome and all that has come since. i know that you are not going to do that over the course of the next six months, but i think you have got a real problem. you said earlier that you wanted europe to do what it was set up to do. jean monnet was the inspiration behind this and he wanted a system whereby, under the acquis communautaire, the community picked up power along the way. i would argue that if you now speak to small and medium-sized businesses – not just in britain, but right across the european union – the trouble is that the legislation, the acquis communautaire, the body of law, has gone too far already. the challenge for your presidency – and perhaps you could explain to me in your response – is how you are going to turn the ship around. if you can reform the european union, mr blair, then i may even change my mind. i may even think it is worth us staying as a member state.
mr president, speaking as a british conservative i would like to congratulate prime minister blair on his recent robust defence of the british rebate in the house of commons and in westminster. i urge him to stand firm on the rebate and to honour the clear commitments he has made. i also commend his conversion to a long-standing conservative policy, that of wide-ranging reform of the eu; reform which is essential now that the eu has ceased to command the respect, or to engage the enthusiasm, of the public. however, as john redwood said this morning on the today programme, if mr blair is serious about reform and deregulation he will have had a team in place for months working out detailed plans. who are these people? what are these plans? i am concerned that he has agreed to a period of reflection on the constitution. there is nothing to reflect about. the decision of french and dutch voters is extremely clear: france and holland did not vote for a slightly different constitution, they voted against the constitution in its entirety. under its own terms the constitution cannot take effect until all member states ratify it, which will not now happen. uk voters, given the chance, would have rejected the constitution by a still wider margin than france or holland. overwhelmingly they want trade and cooperation in europe, they reject your political union. mr blair, will you agree with me that meaningful reform of the eu will require radical renegotiations of the treaties, including the treaty of rome? will you make this a key objective of the british presidency? finally, mr blair, may i thank you for staying to listen to the debate here today, which you so rarely do in westminster.
mr president, on behalf of the conservative delegation and my european democrat colleagues, can i welcome the prime minister and say that we hope the british presidency will indeed be a truly reforming one. it is important for our country and our national interest that britain gives leadership to europe at a time when fundamental questions on its future are being asked. however, it has to be the right kind of leadership and it has to be the right kind of future. the events of recent weeks have indeed been a wake-up call for politicians across the union. the fact that the people of france and the netherlands, two founding states, voted emphatically against the constitution has to be of profound significance. i regret that the european council did not respond decisively to these votes by declaring the constitution dead. mr blair has said that there needs to be a real debate on the kind of european union that we want in the future and i agree with him. i look to him to lead that debate in the coming months. we hope that he will show his leadership by explaining exactly what he meant by his comments the other day that there is more than one view on europe's future. earlier this week mr blair said the crisis is about the failure of leaders to reach agreement with the people who see the world changing, and who want answers to the challenges they face. well, british conservatives have been saying this for years about the european union as we have led the way here in the fields of liberalising our economies, deregulation, the lisbon agenda and open accountability and control of our budgets. if he is now rather belatedly accepting our positions, i certainly welcome his conversion. however, this is not just a crisis of leadership, as he says, but it is also a crisis of legitimacy within the eu institutions. fine words from our government are all very well, but what we now need is action. the social model has not succeeded in europe and millions of unemployed with low growth and inflexible labour markets personify economic decline. we now have to compete with india, china and the united states, and the longer we brush the reality aside, the lisbon agenda remains nothing but an aspiration. i turn now to the future financing of the union. the prime minister was right to defend the british rebate. there is a reason for this rebate existing, and it is as strong as it was in 1984. the apparent slippage in the government's position, which has been confirmed this morning by the prime minister, is of concern to us and we obviously watch carefully to ensure that british taxpayers do not become pawns in discussions over the future of our budget. in conclusion i want to urge the prime minister not to be deflected from his stated goals of reform in the union. we want his rhetoric of recent days to be matched by real leadership and real action. we hope that he can deliver. it is the interests of all of us that he delivers what he says he will. when we judge him in december we hope that he will not have failed us.
mr president, i would like to welcome the future president-in-office by quoting charles dickens: 'it was the best of times, it was the worst of times, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us'. so it is with the european union. at the time of our greatest success, the enlargement to 25, we find ourselves cast down by doubts and recriminations. globalisation has bred insecurity among our citizens, causing some to doubt the european project and to embrace protectionism and isolationism. yet it is only by coherent european action that we can confront the threats and seize the opportunities of globalisation. unfortunately, much of what the eu has achieved is now taken for granted by the voters and is regarded, frankly, as 'old hat'. we have to define a modern vision of the european union and its purpose and relevance; a vision based on concrete outcomes, not processes; a vision based on certain key principles. firstly, the importance of international partnerships and particularly the most successful partnership of them all, the european union. we have to recognise that the strength of the eu lies in its supranational institutions which complement and supplement national sovereignty and do not replace it. secondly, our ability to deliver jobs for our citizens and economic security for their families is central to our continuing success. a successful economy is not an anglo-saxon conspiracy, but the key to our survival. the european union has already done a lot. in recent days we have heard that eu membership costs this country eur 20 per head, or that country eur 50 per head. these figures are insignificant compared with the eur 6 000 per head by which the single market has benefited its citizens through extra growth. but we must do more to harness the knowledge economy by investing in the projects of the future and not the past. economic efficiency depends on social justice. prosperity comes from a secure workforce and a society that invests in all its citizens, excluding no-one. we need active labour market policies to help people find and keep work. a third of our working-age population is economically inactive. that figure is a disgrace and stands to the condemnation of the eu and its member states. finally, we need an open society where people are free to travel to find work. such an open society has to be fair and just and not a free ride for the criminals and the terrorists. that is why i particularly welcome the presidency programme on justice and home affairs. real progress here will show our citizens the benefits of european action. the presidency has to bring member states together to build a competitive europe and a europe capable of giving leadership in the world on issues such as security, climate change and world poverty, the very issues that our citizens are concerned about. i wish you the best of luck.
mr president, in the past mr blair has said that climate change is the biggest threat that we face. he said that it would be a priority for the british presidency. yet, mr blair, we have had just half a sentence on climate change from you in your speech here today. moreover, yours is a government under which greenhouse gas emissions have actually risen. yours is a government which has attempted to increase the volume of emissions allowable to british industry under the eu emissions trading scheme. that is hardly a very good start for someone who is pledging to show international leadership on the issue of climate change. i would like to challenge you to make three key assurances about your presidency. first, to promote mandatory targets for energy efficiency across the european union. second, to adopt targets for renewables which are consistent with a reduction of between 30 to 40 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. third, to rule out nuclear power as any kind of so-called solution to reducing co2 emissions. when you lecture the rest of europe about the merits of modernisation, competition and flexibility, yet leave out any reference at all to sustainability: it completely undermines any claims you make to be committed to sustainable development. yes, europe must change as you say, but unless that change puts sustainability at its heart then your presidency will lose a vital opportunity to help the european union regain public support and it will squander a key moment to address climate change seriously.
mr president, the voters of france and holland have denied power to those they no longer trust, as indeed we would have done in the uk had we had the chance. we are now left with the worst possible solution: the constitution is dead, but we have the structures and methods to govern a unitary state still in place. projects have been started which depended on the constitution for their legitimacy. a european president and foreign minister, a european public prosecutor, diplomatic service, space policy, a european defence agency and rapid reaction force, a fundamental rights agency to enforce a charter that now has no standing, a police force and a european asylum and immigration policy. these bits of the constitution cannot be forced into being against the will of the people. we have had far too much unaccountable and interfering government from this place over the years. the british presidency should take three immediate and crucial steps: to enforce the rule of law in this place; to abandon projects which pre-empted the constitution and now have no legal basis; and to guarantee that no attempt will be made to implement any part of it.
mr president, europe will never be brought closer to the people, and national parliaments can never hope to hold ministers to account so long as europe's most powerful law-making body continues to meet in secret. is it any wonder that people complain of a democratic deficit in europe when debate about new laws in the council of ministers takes place behind closed doors? the prime minister will recognise this failing. in signing the constitutional treaty he accepted that the council should meet in public when it deliberates upon legislative acts. but no referendum or treaty is required, just a simple vote in the general affairs council. the support of just 13 member states is an easy task. it is a quick win. the prime minister says it is time for europe to make choices. so here is a simple one for him to make: maintain the culture of secrecy or put the principles of openness and transparency into practice. (applause)
mr blair, i listened very carefully to your presentation, in particular the emphasis on solidarity in combating poverty. however, the delay in the agreement on the eu budget means that my constituency, west wales and the valleys – an objective 1 area – has lost its chance for full convergence funding after 2007. while the uk government focused on retaining the rebate, wales lost up to gbp 3 billion and next year will be too late, so the uk’s interest was not in wales’ interest. i want europe to change. we want a europe where nations like wales can play a full part in their own right. it is essential that we make europe more relevant to people. in line with that aim and following the example of the irish presidency, and more recently the spanish government, i call upon the uk presidency to request that welsh be made an official language of the european union. to translate that into welsh myself as i have to do in this chamber at present: (the speaker spoke welsh)
mr president, after the rejections of the constitution, the prime minister rightly said that profound questions now arose about the future of europe. from the example of last weekend, it is clear that the over-centralised eu is presently not working. although mr juncker, yesterday, sought to make the united kingdom a scapegoat, the reality is that it is the structures and policies of europe which are fatally flawed. i suspect from your speech, mr blair, that you are not prepared to face the real questions that arise from that. sticking-plaster politics do not work. you should know that from northern ireland. ever-closer union has failed. it is time to embrace the primacy of the nation states over the stifling control of brussels. it is time to repatriate key powers. it is time to return to making free trade, not political union, the cornerstone of europe. finally, i urge you, as prime minister, to continue to take a firm stand in defence of the justified rebate, which you can properly defend on its own merits … (the president cut off the speaker)
that concludes the debate.
colleagues, it gives me great pleasure to welcome members of a delegation from the parliament of kuwait – led by dr nasser jasem al-sane – who have taken their seats in the distinguished visitors’ gallery as part of their first visit to the european parliament. the delegation’s visit is particularly timely, coming just one month after the kuwaiti parliament endorsed the request made by the emir, jaber al-ahmad al-jaber al-sabah, to amend the electoral law in order to reflect more closely the constitution by allowing women to secure the right to vote and to stand for election in national and local elections. (applause) we in this parliament welcome this historic vote and encourage the women of kuwait to exercise their newly acquired rights in the general election scheduled for 2007.
we now continue with the debate on the programme of the british presidency.
mr president, prime minister, it seems that french and dutch voters have startled you into some attitude changes. now all of a sudden you say that the eu needs modernisation and yet not so long ago you told us that this was what the constitution was for. now you find the agriculture funding package that you signed up to not so long ago unacceptable. now you cannot sign up to a budget compromise, because it is not the right deal for britain. yet your own government has repeatedly signed up to disastrous deals, particularly for scotland, such as the reform of the common fisheries policy. speaking of disasters for scotland, your own line on the eu budget limit would end structural funding in scotland at a cost of a billion pounds. while it is true to say that the eu institutions need reform, it is also true that euroscepticism has grown in scotland because you have continued the traditional uk government practice of selling out scotland's interests in cobbled together compromises. the best form of constitutional reform for scotland would be to represent ourselves in the european union as an independent member state.
mr president, prime minister, regrettably it becomes clearer day by day that the present constitutional treaty will not be brought into force. the current text must be seen as a good first draft and the famous period of reflection should be exploited to prepare for a renegotiation through a fresh convention with a new mandate. the renegotiation should focus on part iii and should carry through the modernisation and reform of the eu’s common economic and social policies of which you so properly speak.
mr president, prime minister, the united kingdom’s control order regime brought into force by the forthcoming presidency, flouts the presumption of innocence and cannot reasonably be described as sitting squarely with any accepted european notions of fairness and basic human dignity. these draconian measures leave eu citizens who have never been charged with a recognisable offence, confused and disenfranchised with no knowledge of why they are under suspicion, leaving the individual under a constant fear of imprisonment for breaches of the broadest and vaguest of laws; all decided by a politician, flying in the face of the separation of powers and the rule of law. the holders of the presidency should be setting the human rights standard for the world, yet only this month the council of europe’s own commissioner for human rights confirmed that here we have a government which is prepared to suspend the human rights of its own citizens under article 5 of the european charter. the international community is facing a defining moment in its response to terrorism and we, as europeans, will ultimately be judged by the way we treat our citizens. will this presidency not recognise that its actions have led to victimisation and effective isolation of a large section of its own population?
mr president, i welcome the prime minister’s historic speech. it bodes well for a highly successful uk presidency. during his time in office, will he build on the already agreed enlargement programme? will he give special emphasis to ensuring a timely entry into negotiations for turkey, since so much hangs in the balance in early october on reforms in turkey? will he support romania in the final stretch of what has been a major endurance test, leading to early entry in january 2007, and for bulgaria too? will he build on the success of yesterday’s unique conference on iraq, which demonstrated the profound endurance of british policies? will he build on that success with the elected iraqi government and parliamentary assembly to continue to foster the growth of democracy in the arabian peninsula, the persian gulf and the euro-mediterranean region?
mr president, prime minister, excellent goals, very good speech, you have my support. i have got one minute so i want to make one point. in the french referendum president chirac got 45.3 per cent of votes in favour. in the uk general election last month, you got 35.3 per cent, which is 10 per cent less than jacques chirac got. you are only there because of a distortion in the uk electoral system; you had a manifesto commitment in 1997, but it seems to have been forgotten. the point is that neither of you have majority support in your own countries. after eight years of leadership of my country, the hostility and ignorance about europe in the uk is shocking and terrible and needs to be corrected. please will you start to make positive speeches and explain … i am sorry to see you are not even listening! will you start to make speeches explaining the european union in the country you and i know best?
mr president, the eu is in crisis in terms of direction and legitimacy, and mr blair is now under challenge to fill the leadership vacuum, with mr chirac and mr schröder weakened domestically and probably on their way out. the uk is right to question the entire eu budget architecture based on a distorted, wasteful common agricultural policy, which harms developing world farmers. our rebate will never be given up until the cap is radically reformed, with the funds freed up, used to address modern priorities like research and development, combating climate change and external action funding to stabilise the western balkans, help eastern european countries like ukraine and fledgling democracies in the middle east such as iraq. this is happening at a time when the us is anxious to mend fences with the eu and needs our help. as a priority, i hope that britain will put the roadmap for arab-israeli peace back on the agenda and combat nuclear proliferation in iran and north korea. i support eu enlargement with a wider, looser flexible europe. i welcome the proverbial polish plumber and recognise that the new countries are driving the economic reformist agenda. we are now committed to romania and bulgaria. as much as i support ukraine’s eu aspirations, we have not carried europe’s public with us on enlargement. i hope the uk will emphasise human rights violations in brutal regimes such as burma and zimbabwe. as a commonwealth country, we have a very special influence on these countries in africa. at the summit meeting with russia, it will need reminding of its obligations in chechnya and must be made to understand that it must respect the sovereignty of its former satellites such as ukraine. in the case of moldova and georgia, it should be encouraged to withdraw its troops. mr blair, you might also might want to use some of your goodwill with turkey to resolve the armenia embargo and border issue. lastly, we must maintain the arms embargo on china, with its lamentable human rights record and threats to taiwan. certainly, building a multi-polar world with china and the eu as a counterweight to the us should play no part in this issue.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have argued consistently for greater transparency and accountability with regard to members' salaries and expenses. the package proposed by the legal affairs committee represents an important step forward in achieving a fair and open system. conservatives have always believed that we should be taxed at the same rate as our uk constituents (article 12, point 3), that our salary is equal to that of our colleagues in westminster (article 29, points 1 and 2), and to ensure that travel expenses are only reimbursed for the actual amount incurred (article 20, point 2). indeed, it was conservative amendments, adopted in committee, which will allow member states to adopt additional measures in order to place meps on an equal footing with members of national parliaments.
mr president, at the last part-session, at exactly this time, mr swoboda proposed the abandonment or the curtailment of question time. here we go again! this is quite intolerable. questioning the executive – questioning the commission, rather than giving our little speeches – is one of the most fundamental things we do in this parliament. it is not acceptable to do this two part-sessions running. i am very much against this proposal. although the two big groups are proposing it, so it looks as though it will go through. i plead with colleagues to vote against the proposal by the two leaders. let us keep question time. (applause)
mr president, in 1993 in copenhagen the union agreed a strategy of ten plus two for enlargement. we have pursued it to the huge benefit of those 12 countries and of the other member states in terms of greater stability, greater prosperity and greater opportunities for our citizens. whatever the position of the epp’s prime ministers, within the epp group there has always been a history of opposition to bulgaria and romania. two months ago they moved to delay our approval of the accession treaties. more recently they tried to delay the appointment of observer meps and now they are trying to stop observers coming although you, mr president, have already written officially to the presidents of those parliaments inviting observers. we all know the weakness of the epp in those two countries. we know that the epp group in this house would appear smaller after the arrival of these observers. but it takes a unique combination of political cunning and willingness to destabilise things in those two countries to make such a cynical move now and i hope the house will reject it.
mr president, the european parliament has passed 83 lisbon directives, 63 of which should have been implemented. in fact, only ten have been fully implemented by all the member states. i wish to continue my practice of naming and shaming member states that fail to implement eu legislation. today the issue i am concentrating on is being discussed at the g8 summit: the greenhouse gas emissions allowance trading scheme directive, which should have been implemented by the end of 2003. estonia, italy, hungary, poland, slovenia and sweden have yet to notify the commission of their legislation implementing this directive. there is no point in passing these laws if they are not implemented. such lax behaviour by member states jeopardises the lisbon directives and economic liberalisation. mr president, could you please write to these countries and ask them when they intend to initiate this law?
mr president, i, along with a quarter of a million people, marched through edinburgh – my home city – over the weekend to protest against poverty in the developing world. sadly, today we hear that a few hundred rioters are currently under the control of the police in edinburgh and that they are intent on making trouble in my home town. i hope that the police will take firm steps against them. as you said earlier, it is our turn in this house. we must reclaim the agenda from these rioters, from these protesters. i would refer the house to the activities which will be taking place this week. i would urge colleagues to support them. i would ask you also to sign the written declaration in my name on ‘making poverty history’. at a time when expectations of politicians in general are running so high, i would urge colleagues to demonstrate and prove to the citizens of europe that we are in step with them, as we were in step with them over the weekend, and play our part in making poverty history.
(the speaker began in irish)mr president, last week five farmers were thrown into jail in ireland because they resisted the laying of a potentially dangerous gas pipeline through their land and close to their homes. the five men were sent to prison because they refused to give assurances that they would not obstruct work on their land. these men have legitimate concerns and we should share those concerns on environmental grounds. the shell-led multinational consortium, including marathon and norwegian statoil, intend to place a pipeline across residential land and beside homes, without an independent safety audit being carried out. we see multinational companies with no regard for local communities or the environment and a compliant government that allows these potential hazards to communities. local people argued that the pipeline should be laid out to sea. the pipeline operation has not been shown to comply with the necessary safety precautions.
mr president, the week before last we were addressed by the british prime minister, tony blair. mr blair knows that the european project is in crisis. he knows that further political integration cannot be sold to the peoples of europe, still less the british, unless there are at least some cosmetic changes to the worst excesses of the budget. we in britain have endured new labour for the last eight years. now it is your turn to endure new europe at least for the next six months. mr blair hopes that he can reform the european union in order to make it more palatable to the people. he will learn the same lesson as mrs thatcher did, namely that the european union is unreformable. it is likely that it will be even more apparent to the british people at the end of the british presidency that the british government should adopt ukip’s policy of unconditional withdrawal.
rapporteur.– mr president, we are dealing here with four cases referred to us by the italian authorities concerning the immunity of mr umberto bossi and whether this house should lift that immunity or not. the committee on legal affairs has considered these four cases over a long period of time and is now in a position to make recommendations to the house. parliamentary immunity is of course a matter for this parliament, it is not for us as members. it is to protect the institution as we carry out its proper work and it is therefore a very serious matter. with regard to mr bossi’s cases, i will approach them separately with reference to the name of the court from which they have been referred. first of all, there is one case which i think provided us with very little difficulty or discussion. that is referred from the milan court. it refers to an incident where mr bossi actually used physical violence. in that particular instance, we felt, as a committee, that this was not a proper instance for us to be, as it were, protecting immunity. if a member uses force or violence, then that is not something that is a proper carrying-out of the duties of this house and therefore we were unanimous that the immunity should be lifted in that case. there then follow two other cases which are perhaps more difficult and more complicated to get to grips with. they are referred respectively from the courts of brescia and bergamo. both these instances refer to speeches made by mr bossi on various occasions but speeches where, on one interpretation, he appears to be using inflammatory language which could be encouraging other citizens to act in a way that perhaps would not be appropriate. clearly, this house would wish to protect the freedom of expression of its members when they are carrying out their duties and their right to speak freely as politicians, and in this respect we have to consider rule 9 of our rules of procedure. however, this must be viewed against the background of the fact that in both these cases, the italian authorities – the parliamentary authorities – had come to the conclusion that in italian terms mr bossi’s immunity should be waived. however, the legal affairs committee felt, taking everythi! ng into account, that it was right in these two cases to maintain mr bossi’s immunity. these were rather difficult cases for us to consider, but that was the final recommendation of the committee. all three cases involved prosecutions by the italian authorities. the fourth case, on the face of it, again seemed to be straightforward. this involved civil proceedings between mr bossi and another italian politican. it appeared to be presented to us on the basis that it was the other politician who was taking proceedings against mr bossi on the basis of words that he had spoken. on that basis, we were prepared to accept that the immunity should be maintained. it was, however, pointed out to me over the weekend that in fact mr bossi was the plaintiff in this action and the action was introduced by the other party as a counterclaim. i have a concern that in this instance, therefore, mr bossi does not come to us, as we would say under english law, with clean hands. the result of the committee vote was that we should maintain the immunity, but perhaps, we should bear in mind the type of litigation here, where it appears that the plaintiff himself is trying to use the immunity of this house in a manner which may be questionable.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, eu institutions keep telling themselves that the euro is a success. if only the public realised what a success it is, euroscepticism would vanish and people would all come to love the euro. the problem, we are told, is lack of knowledge. hence the drive to spend eur 16 million on a communication and information campaign giving neutral and factual information. unfortunately, the neutral and factual information is not likely to persuade eu citizens in the desired direction. all the large eurozone countries, and several of the smaller ones, are struggling with poor growth and rising government debt. the rules of the stability pact have been flouted all round and no honest observer can try to claim that the new flexible pact has any teeth, although the commission has recently been pointing the finger at italy. yet we all agree that fiscal discipline is necessary if the euro is to endure as a multinational currency. so how do we measure success? easier travel, says mr maaten; lower interest rates, says mr trichet. but lower interest rates are more a response to poor growth than a sign of success. while the ecb must be applauded for its achievements with consistently low inflation, mr trichet’s deputy admits that the euro may have been part of the problem, accepting that the ‘one size fits all’ interest rate is not appropriate for countries with different inflation rates and business cycles. the euro has not succeeded in its aim of binding eu citizens in ever-closer union. the euro has not succeeded in forcing countries to adopt the structural reforms that are necessary for the long-term health of eurozone economies. is that the information that will be provided under this initiative? it should be, because that is what is relevant to people’s wellbeing. an objective appraisal would admit that in creating the euro the eu has tried to create a silk purse from a pig’s ear. it is now obvious that what we have is indeed the pig’s ear – perhaps not something we should be boasting about too loudly. have we learned nothing from france and the netherlands, where the efforts of governments to obtain a ‘yes’ in their referendums on the constitution merely hardened opinion against it? to spend money now promoting the euro would be foolish and irresponsible. it would also be typical of the head in the sand arrogance that we have come to expect from the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, mr klinz said in one of his first speeches that the introduction of the euro was a success and i share that view, as mr klinz and this parliament are well aware, but i also share the concern of those who have spoken throughout the debate that we must continue to take clear decisions and take clear directions if it is to continue to be a success, because we are very much in this for as citizens and as supporters of the european integration project. as regards the conditions for the introduction of the euro, it is true that there were abuses, more in some countries than in others, in rounding and raising some prices, taking advantage of the change of currency. it is also true that the countries which were better and more prepared were able to avoid virtually all the abuses which have occurred in countries which did not prepare sufficiently for their move towards the single currency by means of information campaigns, but also by negotiations with the sectors concerned through transparency in the double display of prices during a reasonable period before the actual introduction of the coins and notes, and also in information during the first days immediately after the entry into force of the coins and notes. it has been said that both the european central bank and the commission have studied the overall impact of the abuses on the price index, which has not exceeded 0.2 - 0.3%, but the negative perception of many citizens remains there. i agree with mrs doyle that now, several years after the actual introduction of coins and banknotes, citizens who express a sceptical opinion about the euro do so much more because of the state of the economy, the increase in unemployment, the inability to promote investment or create jobs than because of the memory of the abuses that occurred a few years ago. nor should the question of abuse be exaggerated. today in the danish press, the danish minister for economic affairs and finance, mr pedersen, says that in denmark, a country which is not in the euro area, the price increases for certain services - bars, restaurants, some services of direct service to citizens - during january or february 2002 were virtually identical to the increases in the countries which introduced the euro. so we should not exaggerate either, but we should draw on experience, especially in the case of the new member states which are aiming to integrate their currencies into the euro in the coming years, and we are doing so. of course, citizens' views on the economic situation, their confidence in it and in political and economic decision-makers goes beyond whether or not there have been abuses in rounding up certain prices. we must continue to talk about how to implement the stability and growth pact - and i referred earlier in my opening remarks to the commission's commitment to implement the new pact rigorously - and i would ask some of you who have doubted the possibility of applying budgetary discipline rules in the future in the framework of economic and monetary union because the pact has been reformed to take account of the reality of its implementation. we've been discussing how the covenant should be reformed. that debate is over. the two regulations have entered into force, and we are now implementing the new pact. what i ask of you is to give an opinion on how the rules are applied and not on how you would like the rules to be, because the credibility of the stability and growth pact also depends - and very much - on your opinion and when some of your citizens or some of the officials in the member states hear from some of your honourable members the opinion that there are no longer any budgetary rules, they believe it, and i do not want some of the finance ministers to believe that there are no budgetary rules.
president of the european central bank. mr. president, mr. martinez interrupts mr. trichet to ask him to speak in french. yes, yes, i'm going to speak french too, i speak both languages, i'm even trying to speak german, if you noticed, and i'd like to speak more languages. i was impressed by the fact that price stability is very much in the minds of all here and of all our fellow citizens. it seems very important to me to look at this issue, which is to some extent considered occasionally to be an obsession of the ecb. it is an obsession of the ecb because it is the mandate of the ecb. it also clearly reflects the message that we are getting from the people of europe. they are telling us to maintain price stability, to preserve it. i believe that it would be a huge mistake to change the definition of price stability. that is not what the people of europe are calling for. it is certainly not to say that close to 2% is no good, but rather that it should be close to 3%. that would be absolutely abhorrent in the eyes of our fellow citizens. price stability is not only what we are called upon to achieve by the treaty and by the messages we receive in parliament and through our fellow citizens, but it is also absolutely necessary for confidence in europe: for consumer confidence and confidence in general. confidence is a major ingredient for growth and job creation. it would be a huge mistake to think that we can oppose price stability on the one hand, and growth and job creation on the other. on the contrary: by being credible with regard to price stability, we gain confidence in europe and we also secure the very low market interest rate that has been mentioned. in europe we have the lowest rates for the past hundred years. i am not only talking about the short-term rates, but also the ten-year rates. the ten-year rates are made by the market itself, by the free encounter of supply and demand of savings. if we have the lowest rate for a hundred years, it is because price stability is credible, because we the issuer of that currency are credible. it is good for jobs and growth. i will mention two things. good monetary policy can do a lot of things, it can create the conditions for growth and job creation, but it cannot do everything. we have the demonstration of this within the euro area itself with country-by-country comparisons and some members have been very vocal about their own country: there are indeed other elements that matter. among them there is certainly good fiscal policy and there are reforms. i won't insist but it's absolutely fundamental. we share this sentiment with the commission and i would like to say so here. i would also like to mention something, mr president, which i think is very important: the question has been raised of our independence, of our relations with the executive branches, with parliament, with the commission. we invite mr almunia to the governing council of the european central bank every two weeks and we invite the president of the eurogroup every two weeks. i myself, as mr almunia said, am invited every month by the eurogroup. that's three invitations a month. and as far as our own invitation is concerned, it is in accordance with the treaty. the treaty itself says so: we meet every two weeks and we invite the president of the eurogroup every two weeks. three times a month, therefore, in application of the treaty, there is the possibility of dialogue in strict respect of independence. the european central bank is totally independent and this is essential. we wouldn't have the interest rates we have at ten, thirty and fifty if we didn't know we were independent. if there was any suspicion about our independence. but, again, personal contact is permanent. i have more contacts with the relevant committee of the european parliament through mrs beres and the plenary of the european parliament than my colleague alan greenspan has in the united states with the american congress. this is not necessarily perceived, but the contacts are extremely frequent and, in the same way, the contacts with the executives are incredibly frequent since they are possible three times a month. as regards transparency, i would like to say how much we attach to it, we consider it absolutely essential. we have invented a new concept of transparency. the european central bank was set up and it was decided that we would make our diagnosis immediately after the decision of the governing council and that there would be a press conference to enable us not only to make a diagnosis but also to answer questions. this was not the case before the european central bank was set up, it was not the state of the art of central banking at all, and we influenced other central banks to explain what they were doing. they used to simply explain it five or six weeks later, when they published the minutes of their deliberations. i would like to emphasize that what we are doing goes further, since we are immediately issuing a diagnosis of four or five pages, which is the diagnosis we ourselves agreed to in the governing council. and on top of that, we have the press conference. it is true that at the moment my colleagues and i consider it much more important to project the collegial position of the governing council than to give individual positions. we are in a particular environment, the european environment, and we have the single currency for 12 sovereign countries. we feel that our duty is to project this college which is the relevant entity. but, believe me, we're not at all embarrassed by a consensus idea, we discuss among ourselves. there is no question of delaying any decision. and i can provide proof of that. we were able to make very important decisions in a matter of hours after the tragic events of september 11 in new york. so i can give you full assurance on that point. so we really believe that our concept of transparency, which has been innovative, which has been beyond what was the state of the art for central bankers, is the right concept for the european central bank.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending for the twenty-second time council directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (phthalates in toys and childcare articles) (5467/1/2005 – c6-0092/2005 – 1999/0238(cod)) (rapporteur: antonios trakatellis) (a6-0196/2005).
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– mr president, it is remarkable that it has taken eight years, three european commissions and eleven council presidencies for us to actually reach this point. it is long overdue, but we are at last able to take action to protect children from these high concentrations of toxic substances in their toys. toys are meant to be fun and they are meant to be safe. soft pvc toys containing hazardous substances are neither fun nor safe and that is why this ban is so important. it is scandalous that children’s toys containing phthalates could weaken the immune system, cause liver damage and affect the hormone balance, especially when there are other alternatives. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, professor trakatellis, for his work on reaching this agreement and i echo his call to parliament to support the compromise amendments in the vote tomorrow. i am pleased that we have agreed on the ban, rather than labelling for children under three years old, which would not have been effective. the fact that this will cover all toys that can be put into the mouth is also vital as are the commission guidelines on exactly what this will mean and what products will be covered to ensure the highest level of protection. we have heard about that from the commissioner. i believe that this is a real achievement, despite the fact that it has taken so long and despite the lobbying by the industry. i believe we have come to the right conclusion and that this legislation will protect the health of young children.
mr president, i am very pleased that we have this balanced compromise and i am glad that we have rejected the idea of a ban only on products designed to go in children's mouths. anybody who has spent any time with young children and babies will know that they put anything in their mouths so that false division had to go – as did this idea of children aged under three and over three, which we discussed in our committee. i am very pleased that the common position has been changed and we now have a compromise. what swung it for me, when i looked at this for the first time in detail, was that there is an alternative. it is possible to use alternative chemicals so it is quite right that we ban these dangerous chemicals. i have a question for the commission regarding the compromise talks about a review of the use of phthalates in medical devices. does the commission now have a timetable for that review and any idea of the scope? i have been concerned about a recent study from harvard which shows high concentrations of dehp in young babies, new-born babies, who have had intravenous drugs, possibly because of the chemicals leaching from the intravenous tubing and the fluid bags. finally, i would like to thank mr trakatellis. he stood his ground. he would not give in despite a lot of lobbying and i think that we have got a very good compromise.
mr president, the intention here is to take action to prevent harm to children and who could disagree with such sentiments? very few politicians will wish to speak out against such proposals, for fear that their words may be misinterpreted, but there is some concern that the link between the use of phthalates in toys and a risk to children has not been firmly established. phthalates are dangerous chemicals. so are pesticides, but we still eat food containing them every day. our actions here are guided by the precautionary principle and on balance i accept that its use is appropriate. none of us want harm to come to children. however, some of my colleagues feel this is the wrong judgement. they argue that the precautionary principle is being applied more on emotional than on scientific grounds, that harmful links have not been indisputably established and that this is an inappropriate basis for making legislation.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i shall try to respond to members’ questions. firstly, in reply to mr schnellhardt, neither labelling nor fragrances is included in the final package. i can confirm to mrs jørgensen that amendments 22 and 23 are not part of the compromise package. for that reason, i urge members to reject the two amendments. in response to mrs mcavan, the commission is aware of the recent study she mentioned, published by the united states national institute of environmental health science on 8 june 2005. we have, therefore, requested the opinion of the newly established scientific committee on emerging and newly-identified health risks. this will allow us to decide the future of eu policy on phthalates use in medical devices. i promise you that we will do that very quickly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the next item is the report by riitta myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on stimulating technologies for sustainable development: an environmental technologies action plan for the european union (2004/2131(ini)) (a6-0141/2005).
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the newspapers today are full, once again, of stories about the need to reduce burdensome regulation upon industry, but there is at least one sector that not only welcomes new regulations, but thrives upon them: environmental technology is promoted and advanced as a result of regulatory requirements demanding improvements in current performance. such requirements can bring about changes in investment priorities, ensuring that money is channelled into research and innovation, with great potential for the future. indeed, if we listen to president bush, the world will only be spared the consequences of climate change if such investment is stimulated. in preparing its proposals, the commission is now committed to making impact assessments, but the environmental industries do not believe that these properly take account of the real stimulus to innovation derived from setting high environmental standards. they say that the commission should look again at its methodology. its impact assessments need to be adjusted to take full account of the huge economic benefits that this stimulus can give to our economy.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking members for their constructive remarks. development of the wider use of environmental technologies is not only a task for technology developers but also requires the full involvement of all eu companies and citizens concerned. the european parliament has an essential role in explaining the importance of this project and mobilising the necessary public support. before i say a few words about funding and investment, i would like to say that i fully agree with mr davies regarding the importance of impact assessments, extended correct state-of-the-art impact assessments for environmental technologies and for environmental policies in general. regarding funding, as with many technologies, the development of environmental technologies requires substantial investment. bank financing has an important role to play. this is why the european investment bank is involved in implementing the action plan and has urgently developed facilities such as its support for low carbon investments related to the european union emission-trading scheme. this is one of the cases where regulation has led to the emission-trading system and is a very important incentive for developing new technologies. risk capital is also crucial to support small and medium-sized enterprises. in the future framework programme for competitiveness and innovation, the commission has proposed a continuation of the venture capital fund, with particular emphasis on investment financing for eco-innovation. other community programmes also have a role to play in support of investments in environmental technologies and eco-innovation. this is particularly the case for the structural funds and the cohesion fund. i would call on member states and their regional governments to seize the opportunity and include eco-innovation in their programming in order to maximise the synergies between environment protection and economic development. naturally, all commission proposals are highly dependent on the issue of the discussions on the financial framework for the period 2007-2013. finally, fighting the fires in spain and elsewhere, especially during this period of drought, is very important. i know that rain has not fallen in certain areas in spain and portugal for more than a year. i am sure that new technologies to fight and prevent forest fires could be developed.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the next item is the commission statement on thematic strategies on air pollution.
member of the commission. mr president, i consider it very important that i have the opportunity to inform you of the thematic strategy on air pollution. this thematic strategy is the first in a series of seven strategies which represent a new way of developing a coordinated environmental policy. the atmosphere strategy is now in the final stages of preparation, having first undergone an extensive consultation process in which the european parliament has been actively involved. air pollution is known to have very harmful effects on human health: respiratory problems, bronchitis, lung cancer and premature mortality in both young and old. today, some 350,000 premature deaths are linked to air pollution each year. even when current policies and legislation are fully implemented, we will still have over 270,000 premature deaths in 2020. air pollution has adverse effects on the environment and ecosystems. so they will continue to be threatened by serious hazards up to 1 million square kilometres of natural ecosystems. in short, the damage to health and the environment is so great - over 200 billion euros a year in health effects alone - that we must step up our action. we must bear in mind that well-planned environmental policies can make a positive contribution to competitiveness and the creation of high-quality jobs. air pollution has significant negative economic effects. the health problems it causes and the poor quality of the air we breathe lead to the loss of 150 000 million working days a year, to a loss of productivity and, therefore, to significant health costs. the agricultural sector is losing 2.5 billion a year from ozone damage. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in addition, european citizens themselves consider that community action in the field of the environment is more effective: it provides, it creates added value. such action on atmospheric air will have immediate benefits for european citizens. it will bring about a significant improvement in the quality of the air we breathe. it is something we owe to the citizens of europe. i look forward to your support in this new stage of environmental policy that is beginning and i hope to be able to present the strategy on air pollution soon.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this is of course the case of the disappearing strategies and the debate has come about because we wonder where they are. under the sixth environmental action programme, all thematic strategies were supposed to come to the european parliament and council within three years. commissioner, the three years are up on 22 july. in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we were given a splendid outline on 21 june of which strategies would be coming in which months, all of them by 5 december: one in december, two in november, one in september, two in july, three in june. five – on air, waste, sustainable use of resources, marine and aviation – would be with us before the summer. then we were told that we would be starting with air pollution and the marine environment by july. now we are into july and we have none of them. there have been rumours in the media – which we always believe – of dark deeds in the commission: ‘barroso mugs dimas’, we read in the headlines. then dg environment confirmed that there had been no withdrawal, but that there was to be an orientation debate. well, i thought orientation took place before you started on the journey, but apparently the journey has been interrupted while we work out where we are trying to go. if we are to assess compatibility with the lisbon agenda, i wonder why that was not done before. the commissioner has rightly drawn attention to the problem of air pollution. there are some 370 000 premature and preventable deaths a year from outdoor and indoor, industrial, traffic, farming and dust pollution. of course there is a cost to be considered, but i think parliament believes that we should be working on the strategy with the commission and the council now and that, at the very least, we need a stated timetable on when each of the thematic strategies is going to come to us.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for your comments on thematic strategies. as mr bowis says, thematic strategies 6 and 7 are provided for in the sixth environmental action programme. they are supposed to be presented within three years of the programme’s adoption. you said that i was furious with mr blokland. i very rarely get furious. i always stay calm, even when something is unpleasant or difficult for me. i shall try with all my power to overcome any difficulties that arise, with your help. the contribution of the european parliament remains very important. parliament has participated actively in the preparation of the air strategy. with continued cooperation between parliament and the commission, we will be able to provide the european union with an effective and efficient way of addressing the impact of air pollution on human health and the environment. mr seeber quoted figures which are really very impressive and which supplement the figures i quoted previously. in terms of timing, the air strategies are ready, the preparatory work is completed and the inter-service consultations are over. the commission will now have to take its final decision. given the scale of the health and the environmental problems caused by air pollution, i expect that decision to be reached soon. i have heard some concern expressed that the air strategy is not ambitious enough. i fully agree that the effects of air pollution are serious and the strategy must ensure further substantial improvements. the strategy will be ambitious, but it should also be achievable. we know that environmental policies can promote competitiveness and create high-quality jobs. interestingly, the countries that have come closest to meeting the lisbon targets are those with the most ambitious environmental policies. in any event, the potential impact for europe’s competitiveness has been analysed and we are satisfied that the impact of the air strategy will be very limited. moreover, our competitors in china, india, korea, the united states and japan are also taking serious action on air pollution. let me finish by reiterating the importance of an ambitious and forward-looking air strategy. cleaner air will reduce the human suffering that air- related diseases cause: asthma and bronchitis, lung cancer and increased infant mortality. air quality reduces the life expectancy of the average european by eight months. it destroys our lakes and forests and this is our overriding challenge. the air strategy has been thoroughly prepared; it is based on sound science and economics. it has gone through extensive stakeholder consultations and full impact assessment, as well as cost benefit assessment.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment (com(2003)0740 – c5-0643/2003 – 2003/0301(cod)) (a6-0099/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, at this point, it is well worth remembering why the commission put forward this proposal back in 2003. in the long, hot summer of that year, the electricity systems in europe could not cope, and a blackout in italy and some problems elsewhere meant the commission deemed this proposal necessary. this proposal should give transmission system operators the tools to balance supply and demand in a much better way. the elements of the proposal concentrate on cementing good regulatory practice, to open the electricity market and to encourage investments in infrastructure in a more competitive market. furthermore, the proposal clearly requires the necessary steps to be taken to meet the needs of the electricity industry. i wish to thank the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy for their commitment to security of supply and infrastructure. in his report, mr chichester has introduced many important and positive amendments to the commission’s original proposal. the parliament has contributed a great deal to the improvement of the text. the compromise amendments set out clearly the roles and responsibilities of stakeholders regarding the delivery of secure electricity supplies and the upkeep of the networks. the commission is therefore in a position to accept most of the amendments. however, the importance of cross-border interconnector projects has not been reflected sufficiently in the amendments made by parliament. there is a clear regulatory gap in this area and the directive as drafted by parliament does not fill this gap adequately. at this stage, the commission takes note of the agreement between the european parliament and the council while regretting the change concerning article 7. the commission maintains its position as to the need to strengthen the regulator’s role with regard to infrastructure investment. consequently, the commission maintains reservations about compromise amendment 23.
rapporteur.– mr president, i am sorry the council is not here tonight. i wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy for their cooperation in the work on this report and on this proposal, which has enabled us to come before parliament with a clear and united position. i also wish to compliment the council on working with us in informal trialogue towards an agreement at first reading. picking up on the comments of commissioner piebalgs, whom i naturally welcome here this evening, i should like to console the commission for the way in which we and the council have cut back its text and therefore some of the proposed powers that were envisaged, which we deem unnecessary. when it came to us originally, this proposal reflected a certain element of split personality, because it addressed physical security of supply – keeping the lights on, and investment in infrastructure – but also market measures aimed at the same thing. it is not possible to underestimate the importance of energy in general and electricity in particular to our way of life, to our quality of life and to our standard of living. it is a vital element in a modern society and economy. consequently, it is ironic that parliament has chosen to put this item of primary legislation as the last item on monday evening, although, naturally, i hope that we have saved the best until last for your edification. security of supply is about keeping the lights on. it must be admitted that we had quite a debate with the council about whether to include a definition of security of supply in this proposal and, if so, what that definition should be. i am glad to say that we have prevailed and that a definition has been included in article 2. the question arises: how does this directive help address security of supply – keeping the lights on, avoiding blackouts and outages – and what have we in the european parliament added to it? the objectives are quite clear: it is about establishing measures to safeguard security of supply and ensure proper functioning of the internal market – these two elements of the proposal. it is about ensuring adequate generation capacity, an adequate balance between supply and demand and appropriate levels of interconnection. that is referred to quite clearly in the text. then we in parliament have insisted on the definition of the roles and responsibilities of a full list of players – stakeholders, if you will – in the electricity supply industry. we have sought to make member states define those roles in the cause of security of supply so that everybody knows who is responsible for what. that includes member states themselves. we have achieved the inclusion of a requirement for a report on overall system adequacy for operational network security for the projected security balance of supply and demand over the next five years and prospects for the security of electricity supply over the next 15 years beyond that, thereby flagging up what investment requirements will be needed. we can also claim credit for slimming down the original proposal and giving it more focus. this directive will not guarantee that there will be no more blackouts: that would be impossible. but it points out where responsibility rests and it will be for member states to spell that out in detail so there is no uncertainty. primary operational responsibility must be with the transmission system operators and, to some extent, the distribution system operators. but we should all recognise that a whole range of factors are involved in maintaining overall security of supply, not just transmission and interconnection. we must remember that the primary responsibility for that at present rests with the member states. i commend this proposal to the house.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to start by commending the rapporteur on the job he has done. the method used to find the best possible solution for the proposal made by the commission is very admirable. the result is extremely good. at the same time i should like to say that we have faced the same objective. all of us would like to strengthen the security of the supply of electricity. that means that we should find a way to secure long-term investment, stability of investment, conditions for investment, standards for transmission system operators and also inter-connection capacity in the european union. strategically the commission has agreed with all discussions going on in the council and parliament. the only difference we have is on how to strengthen the connection capacity. from that point of view i very much hope that the proposal based on the collaboration between the council and parliament will work. if it does not, then perhaps we will need to find other methods to strengthen inter-connection capacity, because it is the link in the european energy supply. in general, as already mentioned, this directive definitely cannot rule out blackouts in some places in the european market. it definitely decreases the risks of such a blackout and strengthens the role that the energy sector plays in the well-being of european citizens. even though the commission expresses a reservation on one particular issue, if the directive is agreed on this basis at parliament's first reading, the commission will welcome this directive. i ask the house to support the compromise amendments tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
member of the commission. mr president, as commissioner mccreevy is unable to be present today, i will represent the commission in this debate. i wish to begin by thanking michel rocard, the rapporteur on this complex and technical file, for his hard work on this dossier. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have also made a major contribution to the work of parliament on this issue. this proposal is not only relevant to inventions implemented on a standard computer – a laptop for instance – it covers many everyday consumer goods and devices increasingly important in our daily life, such as cars, washing machines, mobile phones, cameras, dvd players, tv sets, vacuum cleaners or medical equipment like scanners. the proposed directive neither aims to abolish the current practice of the european patent office nor to extend it to cover the patenting of pure computer programs, as many of the opponents of the proposals have claimed. indeed, many have equally – and mistakenly – claimed that the directive is introducing the notion of patentability of software inventions in eu patent practice for the first time. the proposed text clearly excludes patents for pure software, as well as patents for business methods as such. only technical innovations embodied in a computer program and meeting the patentability criteria of novelty, inventiveness and industrial applicability can be patented. a legal framework ensuring patent protection in this area is of key importance in enabling european industries, including small and medium-sized enterprises, to be competitive in a high-tech environment. patents can guarantee a return on r&d investments, attract venture capital and provide bargaining power. this has a spin-off effect which boosts innovation. the commission believes that the common position meets the requirement of introducing a predictable legal framework that promotes and rewards innovation. amendments seeking rejection of the common position have been tabled. i would like to point out that this would only increase legal uncertainty with respect to the inventions in question. lack of harmonisation in this field would prejudice the competitiveness of the european undertakings and continue to be an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the internal market. in this spirit, the commission continues to support the line taken in the common position. we can accept amendments that introduce useful technical or contextual clarifications, subject to minor fine-tuning or interpretative statements where necessary, but the overall balance of the proposal must be maintained. the current definition of technical contribution in the directive is taken from existing case-law so, while it might be possible to word it more elegantly, we cannot turn it around. instead, it seems more useful to focus on the scope of patentable subject matter in article 4, bringing the exclusions out more clearly. changing them in contradiction with the european patent convention would, however, simply cause confusion. in addition, interoperability concerns can be addressed by allowing access where possible to necessary technologies while protecting the legitimate rights of inventors. the report prepared by the committee on legal affairs generally maintains the balanced approach of the commission’s proposal. nonetheless, there are some changes that should be made to bring the definitions and criteria into line with general patent law. the commission can accept additional reporting requirements, including the establishment of new advisory committees, provided that resource implications are borne in mind by parliament. the commission cannot accept amendments which relate to the commission’s right of initiative, or the relationship with non-community institutions.on key issues of substance, the commission is strongly committed to promotion of interoperability as a means of fostering innovation and competition and to ensure that community legislation does not act as a hindrance to different software development models – ‘proprietary’ or ‘open source’. it therefore maintains a certain flexibility as to the solution found to deal with interoperability, provided that our international obligations are respected. on the scope of patentability, further clarification of the common position is acceptable but not significant changes departing from the current situation or from general patent law solutions. i should signal here that we see particular drafting problems with certain amendments relating to technical contribution and inventive step. on claims to computer programs on a carrier, where such programs implement a patented invention, the commission can accept any solution between the common position and the commission’s original proposal, including alternative formulations to achieve the same objective of enforcing valid patents. the commission has noted the high number of amendments tabled in addition to the legal affairs committee’s report. i will set out the commission’s overall position on all amendments at the end of this morning’s debate.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, computer entrepreneurs are amongst the most independent spirits in the world. i know how they feel, faced with the prospect of this directive. they, as much as anyone, reject the concept of restrictive monoliths. they know that the eu is just such a monolith. the directive is typical of the monolithic actions that they seek to reject. i have worked hard in recent weeks to help computer smes resist this directive. however, i have come to realise that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur do not change the fundamental problem. mr rocard is trying to remove non-technical features of computer-controlled inventions from the scope of the directive. that in itself is laudable, but he is not seeking to stop the directive overall; in fact he is supporting it. as such, small computer companies are left, one might say, between a rocard and a hard place. mr rocard goes as far as to state in his explanatory statement that he supports the council’s position in principle. his amendments do not reject the concept of harmonisation. they explicitly support it. one of them even says that the objective of the directive – namely to harmonise national rules on the patentability of computer-controlled inventions – cannot be properly achieved by the member states. sadly, mr rocard is one of those people, typical in the eu, who increasingly seem to think that the european patent office is some sort of subsidiary of the eu, when in fact it covers non-eu countries as well. i reject this directive completely. that is why i will vote against it and mr rocard’s version of it. i have always said that, if the eu is the answer, it must have been a silly question. today that is patently obvious!
mr president, the issue of the territorial limitations of contributory infringement is the reason why software product claims were originally written and permitted by the european patent office. the new approach in my amendment 66, eliminates software claims and therefore the concerns they raise, but extends contributory infringement provisions that already apply within most member states so as to cover imports from china, russia or elsewhere. this proposal, along with those for monitoring the european patent office, sits more conveniently in the context of the community patent and how it may be properly administered, which is where this whole matter really belongs. mr rocard, your amendments really focus on little more than programs on personal computers rather than the vast array of important technology that depends on computer-implemented inventions. almost all areas of technology are linked with use of programmable apparatus. from fermentation control for antibiotic growth to aeronautics or telecommunications, the list is endless. programmable devices are everywhere, in almost everything you can plug in or switch on, and your amendments interfere with them in apparatus and method terms, not just software. your simplistic exclusions of data processing exclude signal processing and digital technology. information is a term used since the earliest times of radio to distinguish signals from noise. applied natural science excludes engineering. the expression ‘controllable forces of nature’ is a legal nightmare for many member states. collectively, your terminology wipes out patentability throughout huge areas of technology, not just! programming. if you wished to construct a series of amendments to cripple and disperse europe’s industry, large and small, you could not devise anything more mischievous. i am sorry but, for the real world of industrial technology, your blunderbuss amendments are simply not good enough.
we have the opportunity to lead the world with good patent law, but are we up to the task? the legal framework is clear: article 52 of the european patent convention states that software as such cannot be patented. all of us believe that we must set clear limits to patentability. we simply do not agree on how best to do that. we need to tighten up the law and ensure that examination practised does not permit the patenting of software or business methods. however, let us not forget that it is our inventiveness and capacity for innovation in software and dependent technologies that can help europe to meet its objective of being the world’s most competitive economy by 2010. at a time when our traditional industries are migrating to china and the far east, we have to rely on our inventiveness to earn our living. the revenue secured by patents and by licensing out our inventions to our global competitors gives us a return on the investment and assists us in creating jobs and growth. smes that are inventors argue that without patent protection they are in no position to negotiate with big business or protect themselves from larger companies ripping off their inventions. they need patent protection that is affordable and enforceable against industry giants. but we must also ensure that small software developers are not faced with a minefield of trivial patents. they must be able to innovate, write and develop lines of code and produce software processes without violating or breaking patent law. there are a number of amendments that could solve this problem so we can have a balanced, workable eu law which will not permit backdoor patenting but will ensure that, in an increasingly cut-throat and global arena, europe’s most inventive companies can have access to patents and challenge us dominance in this field. mr crowley said that we could find ourselves in the perverse situation of paying out licence fees to us and japanese companies for the very patents and innovations that we have invented. in fact, add india to that list. in its new patents act of 2005, india now allows embedded systems to be patentable. are we seriously saying that here in europe we value our inventiveness less than those countries new to innovation and inventions?
mr president, parliament faces a great strategic challenge to create a regulatory framework that will stop the spread of patentability of software. tactically, our first task tomorrow must be to defeat the simplistic proposals to reject the second reading. we must ensure that we are able to progress steadily to amend the common position. it is simply through the conciliation procedure that a first-class piece of law will be created. to fail to legislate at all would leave the industry at the mercy of the epo, the courts and the panels of the world trade organization. i am afraid that would be a costly, legalistic and confusing situation.
mr president, towards the end of what has been an interesting debate, it is time to get back to what we are talking about, the core of the matter. this is not an extension of existing patent law; it is not actually taking us into any new fields. the whole objective of this is to clarify the existing situation because the current patent law is being applied in an inconsistent way. in many cases companies who want patents do not know where they stand. they may get a patent from one country but not from another. at the same time, i think we are all agreed that we do not want to see the sort of patent regime that appears to be running very fast in the united states and other countries, where patents for what we might call relatively trivial inventions covering business methods or simple software which ought to be covered by copyright will not be covered. however, the main issue is: does the proposal in front of us actually achieve that? put yourself in the position of a patent inspector, where you are having to make a judgement about whether to offer patents. i suggest to you that this wording and much of the wording here is not only complex, difficult and opaque but actually goes in entirely the wrong direction. part of the problem – and i sense it in a lot of the discussions here – is that many colleagues are not accepting the fact that in almost every field of technological invention, there is some form of digital technology. the notion of a computer aiding or controlling things is actually rather an outdated one. you carry in your mobile phone more computing power than a large computer of ten years ago. that is programmed by instructions and it is perfectly sensible for companies that have technical innovations encompassing that software to be able to protect it. i suggest to you that this is going in the wrong direction: it is not helping small businesses, it is not helping large businesses, it is not helping open source movement. we have to decide whether we have not failed completely in this and whether it is not time to start again.
mr president having listened carefully to the various arguments presented during this morning's debate, i would strongly urge members of this house to give their support to the 21 compromise amendments which would stop the introduction of software patents in tomorrow's vote. if these amendments are not accepted then i and many others will vote against this resolution. this draft legislation works against the interests of european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) operating in the software industry. if this legislation is adopted by the parliament tomorrow it will stifle innovation and stifle vital european smes. the parliament must vote against this legislation. we cannot afford to stifle vital european smes. smes are the lifeblood of job creation in europe. copyright does everything that it should do. software patents are not the way to go.
rapporteur.– madam president, i should just like to inform the house that it has successfully adopted, at first reading, a directive in agreement with the council.
in writing. i voted for this report. the proposal for a council decision concerns the conclusion by the european community of the agreement on the conservation of african-eurasian migratory water-birds signed by the community on 1 september 1997, in force since 1 november 1999. it is one of conservative of migratory species of wild animals. it protects 235 species of birds which are ecologically dependent on wetlands in particular in africa and eurasia. it requires coordinated measures for achieving and maintaining a favourable conservation status for migratory water-bird species using african-eurasian flyways.
in writing. i voted for this report to back legislation aimed at enhancing the protection of children's health and the building of consumer confidence through establishing a stringent regulatory framework to govern the manufacture and marketing of toys and childcare articles containing certain phthalates in order to reduce, as far as possible, children's exposure to substances which demonstrably give rise to or could potentially cause a health risk. i welcome the compromise reached in committee to ban 6 phthalates in toys for children regardless of their age.
in writing. this report has been a long time in coming. i fully support the restriction on the marketing of phthalates in children’s toys. children’s health must come first.
in writing. i voted for this report which proposes on the whole sensible and worthwhile amendments to the commission proposal. the main provisions of the proposal are aimed at establishing measures ensuring the proper functioning of the eu internal market for electricity by safeguarding security of electricity supply and by ensuring an adequate level of interconnection between member states. it also aims to establish a framework within which member states shall define general, transport and non-discriminatory policies on security of electricity supply compatible with the requirements of a competitive single market for electricity. all these objectives merit support.
in writing. i regret having to vote against this report because the author chose to focus primarily on the breach and reform of the stability and growth pact. this is contrary to an agreement that this report should not duplicate the work of other reports but should concentrate solely on the competences and performances of the ecb.
in writing. the british conservative delegation normally abstains on matters concerning the euro. we have no desire to be part of the single currency but neither do we have any wish to for the project to fail, as we hope to see a strong european economy with a stable currency that provides a good trading environment for british industry. therefore we are usually content to leave the operation of emu to those who are most concerned. nevertheless, we cannot accept this report. the problems that the euro faces have not arisen because of a failure of communication, and where the euro is unpopular it is not because the public has been inadequately informed. the euro will only revive in the minds of the public when the necessary economic and structural reforms promoted by the lisbon strategy have been undertaken, and when the stability and growth pact works in an effective way. as the report notes, at least €280 million has already been spent by european institutions on this, apart from that which has been spent by national governments. institutional expenditure of this kind is not acceptable.
in writing. the euro has clearly been an economic success in the countries that have adopted it - it has eliminated exchange risk within the euro zone, made travel easier and increased trade within the zone. nevertheless, it is dispiriting to note that despite the objective benefits of the euro and despite the generally smooth change over that occurred, seven years on, a significant section (about one third) of the public continues to have a negative perception of the euro. baffling as this may appear the commission, member states and other policy makers need to take stock of these perceptions and undertake steps to correct them. this report could make a worthwhile contribution to that effect.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of this report in view of evaluating the european monetary union's strengths and weaknesses, to propose solutions and to aid the strategy for other member states' entry into the union if they so wish. the european parliamentary labour party believes that information on the euro should be made widely available to all citizens of the eu. this however, does not negate the chancellor's 5 economic tests set for any future decision on the uk's entry to the euro zone.
in writing. i welcome this report on the communication from the commission on stimulating technologies for sustainable development - an environmental technologies action plan for the eu. i see it as a useful basis for discussion and development of more concrete proposals on how to boost environmental technologies but would like to see more emphasis on the development of the demand for such technologies. i would like to seem a more systems-based approach to environmental policy using "life-cycle" thinking where great importance is attached to the innovation and development of environmentally benign technologies. i firmly believe that environmental technologies properly resourced and encouraged have great employment and growth potential.
in writing. i welcome this report which calls for the fight against child labour to be accelerated through promoting socio-economic development and the reduction of poverty on a wider scale. while satisfying for one's own conscience, trade boycotts and other sanctions are an unsatisfactory way of dealing with this unpleasant activity. evidence suggests that children thrown out of factories in desperately poor conditions are subject to even more insidious exploitation such as prostitution and domestic slavery.
in writing. we must do everything that we can to oppose the exploitation of children in the developing world. this report links directly into the ‘making poverty history’ campaign as child exploitation is so often linked to poverty. we must do all that we can to make trade fair, to support debt relief and to secure aid to the poorest. i hope that members will sign our written declaration on the millennium development goals which will deliver on this crucial agenda. i also hope that the g8 leaders meeting in scotland tomorrow will make further progress on ‘making poverty history’.
mr president, i too would like to add my voice of congratulations to our five rapporteurs for their cooperative, constructive approach in the compilation of their reports. i cannot help but contrast that with the uncooperative, destructive approach of the united kingdom government. to be fair, i was pleased to hear mr michael’s speech mentioning partnership so often, but like so much with the london labour government, warm words will cut no ice with us unless we see some action as well. the fact is the uk position right now would see the highlands and islands, the west, the east and the south of scotland lose out on millions upon millions of much needed eu funding that the commission and this house want us to receive. if that is the uk definition of partnership, this house has comprehensively rejected it. therefore, i will be backing all five of the reports with a few amendments to strengthen in particular statistical effect and the partnership principle. i urge colleagues to unite strongly around these reports, so that the european version of partnership – rather than the british version – prevails.
(the speaker spoke in irish) mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, and i welcome in particular the report by mr olbrycht on the establishment of a european grouping on territorial cooperation. i thank the rapporteur not only for his work but also for the way in which he approached it. obstacles in the way of the common delivery of services across borders can often deter public servants and others from undertaking practical cooperation on a cross-border, transnational or interregional basis. this in turn leads to duplication, waste and lost opportunities. the commission proposal and the amendments made or coordinated by mr olbrycht will benefit my country, which has been divided by a north-south border, but it will also benefit all who wish to work more fully with their european neighbours. mr olbrycht has moved to deal with concerns about financial control, existing cooperation arrangements and partnerships that include ngos and local authorities. i particularly welcome the recognition that such groupings have a role to play in fostering reconciliation across borders where there has been civil or military conflict. i also commend the report on european regional development by mr fava and i want to acknowledge mr fava´s willingness to listen to committee colleagues and take on board a number of compromise amendments. i am particularly pleased with the report's emphasis on social inclusion and sustainable development. we can all support the commitment to remove obstacles to access for people with disabilities and the commitment to non-discrimination and equal opportunities. structural funding has helped reshape the economic infrastructure of ireland. we will be keen in future to see the investment available, in the north and south of ireland, targeted at the most disadvantaged areas, including rural communities along the border between the north and south of the island, communities that have suffered as a result of partition and conflict. in this respect, i also welcome the inclusion by mr hatzidakis of compromise amendments dealing with the specific challenges faced by the natural effect regions in ireland and elsewhere. programmes should have a bottom-up approach, where local communities have a say in the design and implementation of projects, and we welcome amendments that strengthen the contribution to the social economy. however, my party and i do not favour the use of public-private partnerships. on a broader level, the eu faces a considerable challenge in ensuring that both established and newer member states receive consistent levels of erdf funding on the basis of need. like my colleagues, i also hope that the necessary budget for all this can be agreed this year so that the next cycle can start promptly.
mr president, cohesion policy has been at the heart of the european project from the outset and it is a policy dependent upon the concept of regions at the expense of nations. in many countries, not least the uk, regions are a wholly artificial concept. it is only a short step from artificial regions within the nation states to artificial regions straddling them. if european groupings of cross-border cooperation make that step they will be entities with a legal personality, with their own statutes, organs and budgetary rules. the commission explicitly states that egccs are a means of overcoming the major difficulties in carrying out cooperation due to the many national laws. this is a momentous development hidden away as usual behind dry jargon. conservative-controlled kent county council will love all this. it has already set up an unofficial cross-border region – transmanche – with nord-pas de calais, but the people of the uk will not even accept attempts to set up regional governments within their own borders. i assure you there is no way they will accept regional government from beyond them.
mr president, my primary observation has to be that the proposed structural and cohesion funding package for 2007-2013 fails to provide adequately for those regions within the eu-15 which, though themselves deficient in infrastructure investment, failed because of the national criteria to qualify for cohesion funds. northern ireland which i represent is such a region. our water and sewage and roads infrastructure need huge investment. we have not seen a mile of motorway built for maybe 30 years. our water system requires expenditure to the tune of hundreds of millions. yet we did not qualify for environment and road infrastructure assistance under the cohesion fund because of the national criteria. our nearest neighbour, the republic of ireland, did so qualify and in the 10 years from 1993 benefited from over eur 2 billion of expenditure on such projects. these proposals with their almost total focus on the new member states do not recognise the glaring needs of regions such as mine. i therefore call for a reconsideration of the real needs of regions that still exist within the eu-15 that are now in danger of being totally bypassed. i would like to say a word about the european fisheries fund. it seems to me to be designed largely with a view to managing further decline. its prohibition on funding new vessels will do nothing to tackle the dangers and the problems of an ageing fleet. the fund rather should provide for the specific needs of the fisheries sector in each member state and, if it did, the modernisation and funding of new vessels would be top of the agenda in many areas.
mr president, thanks are due to all the rapporteurs for the open and inclusive manner in which they have handled the dossiers and for the extent of the consensus they have built. my own thanks are particularly due to mr hatzidakis for supporting the alde amendments to his own report. i speak specifically, however, of the casa report; here we wish to introduce references to an ecosystem-based approach to management, to regional advisory councils and to improved disclosure on financial control structures. i ask colleagues to vote in favour of them. on a personal note, whilst i believe that there is much to commend already in the report, there are certain aspects that, like the commissioner, i cannot support. resources allocated to the fund are limited; there are many needs to be met. the inclusion of safety improvements and of improvements to quality conditions on board vessels, and the inclusion of measures to make vessels more environmentally friendly may be acceptable, particularly for the small-scale coastal sector. however, i am strongly opposed, both in principle and as regards the practical effects, to using european taxpayers’ money for wider fleet renewal. this is simply an attempt to turn the clock back. more generally – and i turn to the president-in-office – i would like to echo colleagues from across the political groups and urge the council to take very seriously parliament’s recommendations on the financial perspectives and on structural funding as found in the berger and hatzidakis reports. otherwise, i fear serious adverse effects for both economic regeneration and social inclusion. i also believe very strongly that eu funding should be available to areas in need wherever in the union they happen to be located. in this light, i wish the uk well in its presidency, hoping that it will include a speedy rapprochement on the financial perspectives. when its prime minister spoke recently to this house, he referred to a ‘union of values, of solidarity between nations and people’. may this understanding above all inform the debate.
mr president, the purpose of the european fisheries fund should be to implement the common fisheries policy, according to mr borg. in scotland, though, a more accurate description of the need would be to compensate for the disastrous effects of the common fisheries policy on our communities and it is a worry that the total fund projected is about the same for 25 as we have had for 15 member states. i support most of the amendments from the committee on fisheries of this parliament, with the exception of vessel construction. in particular i support changing the presumption from fleet reduction to adaptation, so that account can be taken of individual circumstances in areas. i support highlighting the importance of aquaculture, priority for small-scale inshore fisheries and the compensation proposed for enforced tie-up. i welcome the fact that the commission considers fisheries important enough for its fisheries commissioner to be here for this debate. it is a pity that the presidency did not do likewise, but then that is all too typical of uk governments and how they see fisheries, particularly in scotland.
mr president, i thank the rapporteurs. regional development is one of the cornerstones of the european union. i welcome parliament’s position on regional policy per se, but i also believe that we must have sustainable development. i welcome the review of the common fisheries policy as giving a sustainable framework for fisheries. i deeply regret that the report on the european fisheries fund has been transformed into a vehicle to reopen decisions taken during the cfp review. the review clearly ended subsidies for boat building and put into place limitations on modernisation. it is disingenuous to say that engine replacement and other forms of modernisation do not increase fishing capacity. i welcome the focus on sustainability within the commission’s eff proposals. i also noted that, in his working document on the cfp, mr böge commented that the overcapacity of the community fleet still is, despite the efforts made in the framework of the previous structural programmes, one of the main reasons for the over-exploitation of certain stocks. sustainability is the key to future prosperity and development in the fisheries sector. i do not buy the argument that old small boats are unsafe and need replacing by public money. it may be undeniable that they need replacing. however, my previous old small car was unsafe and needed replacing, but i had to pay for the replacement myself. all right, i was not running a car-based business but, if i had been, i would not have expected the government to step in and give me the money. fleet renewal needs to take place, but i want that to happen on a sustainable basis. we should not subsidise too many fishermen to chase too few fish.
mr president, the structural funds are an essential example of eu solidarity – solidarity between the richest and the poorest parts of the eu – and i am delighted to see that the structural funds have been refocused to concentrate on achieving the lisbon goals. there will be better strategic planning, and there will be increased simplification, which is what we are looking for. in the hatzidakis report, we are also asking the member states to take their responsibilities seriously in terms of making sure that the money is spent properly, and we are demanding that the finance minister in each member state signs off the accounts on an annual basis. we want to see an end to the blame game, blaming the commission for the failures within the member states. in wales, we have enjoyed generous support from the eu structural funds, and i would like to see that support continue for west wales and the valleys. if the council gets its skates on, we may sort out the budget before december and we may see a situation where we receive the maximum amount of funding. being poor is not a badge of pride, but, on this occasion, it would be a window of opportunity to help our poorest communities. i am also pleased to see that there is a reference now to inactivity in helping people who are inactive in the workplace.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports and for the great deal of work they put into preparing them. the future reform of structural funding will bring about many changes to regions within the original 15 member states. that causes concern in many regions, such as my own region in northern ireland which has received excellent support over many years. a great deal has been achieved as a result of that. i believe that the greatest problem for the european union – and perhaps it should reflect upon the two ‘no’ votes in france and the netherlands – is that we try to make the one suit fit everyone, from one end of the union to the other. it does not work that way; we cannot make that happen; that is one of the great misunderstandings. while we understand the needs and requirements of many in the ten new member states, it is of little comfort to those who will lose out substantially. northern ireland, where i come from, is a much better place than it was ten years ago. it is not perfect by any means, and i would not claim otherwise, but we have, to some degree, an imperfect peace, which we did not have at that time. however, in the last 30 years we have suffered the scourge of terrorism, when our towns, cities and villages were bombed to pieces. many people lost their lives, but the will and resilience of the people saw us through those dark and terrible days. the rebuilding had to be paid for, however, so instead of gradual investment in infrastructure and the development of our road, rail and other connections to the rest of the united kingdom and europe, instead of upgrading our infrastructure, all the finance went into rebuilding the bombed-out areas. that has left us with a serious legacy of decay and decline with out-of-date structures and over-capacity in our water and sewage works. we have not built a single kilometre of motorway in that time. the west and the north-west of my province are crying out for infrastructural developments that will provide links within the province and encourage industry to those areas. our rail system has been improved in recent years but still requires further development in rolling stock. we have lost out. we will need further support. commissioner, you recently visited northern ireland and came to belfast. it was a very short visit. i hope that we will be able to welcome you back in the near future, when you will be able to see and perhaps help us on our way through some of those difficulties.
rapporteur.– mr president, i think this proposal is ground-breaking for europe, ground-breaking for parliament. we have had no previous coherent set of rules dealing with applicable law over such a vast arena of civil and commercial claims. we now have a potential roadmap for litigation and access to justice in the internal market, building on the structures of brussels i in relation to the jurisdiction of our courts. for parliament, this is the first time we have acted as a co-legislator in such an area of private international law. i am proud that via our committee we have raised the policy debate in a number of areas where we might not have been expected to tread. let me touch on some of those debates. we have thought long and hard about the kind of general rule required, looking for the approach that can best deliver justice in our courts. it seems to be one, if i can put it this way, that gives a little subsidiarity to our judges. we start from the commission’s clear rule but then give some room for manoeuvre, to deliver justice in the many and various situations that would doubtless arise in litigation. here there is a clear message about the difficulty of characterising torts inherent in the method used by the commission. our approach avoids this difficulty, unless we can find good definitions. i would accept my socialist colleague’s amendment on product liability on this basis. i think it is a good definition and rule and would add to the debate. on road traffic accidents and personal injuries in general, we have sent a clear message about the injustice of applying the damages regime of the country of the accident. if i may illustrate this, i have a constituent who had an accident in spain. he has been offered gbp 4000 according to spanish law. it would be gbp 43 000 according to english law and it is in england that he has to live out his life. this problem has to be addressed, if not here, then by further commission study and proposal. on the use of foreign law, the success of rome ii will depend on good judicial cooperation, proper use and respect for one another’s laws. the record to date is patchy. courts often avoid the application of foreign law. the court and parties should – or must – consider this issue, otherwise we are all wasting our time here. that is a matter that has to be closely monitored if we are to deliver a true area of civil and commercial justice. on defamation, where parliament was expected to be active, i was grateful for the opinion of my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i personally share their view but have always felt that we would have to go further to respect the media’s concerns about freedom of expression. we now have a compromise which has wide support across the political groups and, more importantly, across publishing and the journalistic world. it is unclear whether it will work technically, but it gives the direction for new discussion in the commission and the council. it indicates what is acceptable in achieving a balance between freedom of expression and the rights of the victims of defamation. finally to our old friend: the country-of-origin principle. i shall say it again: it is not a choice of law rule; it will not give you the answer to the question as to which law should be applied to a dispute between two civil parties. if it gives you an answer, it will probably not be the one that the supporters of the principle want. it is an important principle of community law in the field of public or state regulatory law and should be given full weight as such. i believe we have done that in the solution we have put forward in the committee’s report. i hope that will survive intact after amendments from either side. i thank everyone in the legal affairs committee and the libe committee who have supported our work on this report and express my considerable gratitude to our secretariat on legal affairs who have helped us by carrying out extensive research and making efforts towards producing a report that i believe we can be proud of as a committee.
mr president, i have a long-standing interest in belarus and i have never advocated completely cutting off contact with the belarus authorities in areas of mutual concern such as people trafficking and trade matters. it is also true that current eu policies have not paid any dividends. the regime of president lukashenko has retreated into a siege mentality, in which increasing paranoia about the intentions of the eu, the usa, and even russia at times has resulted in mounting repression and authoritarian responses. democracy has been effectively terminated, with sham elections and an end to limits on the president’s term of office, although cis observers would claim otherwise. human rights are trampled on, with unexplained disappearances of opposition figures. the judiciary is far from independent and does not question the campaign of deputy attorney general paval radzivonaw as the principal architect of the crackdown on newspapers such as novaya gazeta smorgoni and vremya. the criminal conviction of opposition figures such as mikhail marinich is further evidence of this. press freedom is virtually non-existent now, with newspapers being suspended and journalists, including foreign correspondents, harassed or fined. theoretically, belarusians can even be sent to labour camps for daring to criticise the president. one journalist, veronika cherkasova, was mysteriously murdered last year. in terms of media freedom, belarus is now on a par with some of the world’s pariah regimes, such as cuba, burma, north korea and iran. the eu and the usa stand together in condemning this brutal regime and imposing smart sanctions on officials of the regime. i strongly support independent radio broadcasting into belarus from the eu and also financial assistance for belarus journalists and for civil society. i hope that that ghastly regime’s days are numbered and that it will soon be off the map of europe.
mr president, reports before this parliament seldom contain jokes, but there is some humour, if unintentional, in this one. paragraph 43 suggests that the european union ‘offers its expertise and assistance with a view to the drafting of the iraqi constitution’. iraqis might think that the european union’s expertise and experience in this field leaves something to be desired. its last attempt produced a constitution that was opaque and confused and ran to almost 500 pages. on the other hand, the united states of america has a clear and concise constitution that runs to just a few pages of paper, with only about 27 amendments needed over the past 200 years. if the iraqis need some help, they might prefer to ask the americans to lend a hand. if the eu becomes involved it might even offer to organise the constitutional referendum for the iraqis, and that could lead to all kinds of unwanted problems.
mr president, i welcome the emphasis of the rapporteur and of amendment 12, by the pse group, in supporting the eu’s positive commitment to the social, economic and political reconstruction of iraq, to the success of the january elections, to the doubling of international partners for iraq, as represented at the brussels conference, and to our united condemnation of all violence, kidnappings and human rights abuses within iraq. the european parliamentary labour party cannot support those amendments that seek to rekindle the divisions of the past. in that context, i note that amendment 3, by the verts/ale group, seeks to delete this parliament’s commitment to fighting both terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. everyone should vote against that amendment. finally, there is a link between this debate and the next on development. twenty years under saddam hussein left five million iraqis suffering from chronic poverty, the fastest increase in child mortality of any country in the world, access to safe water for less than half the people in rural areas and 60% wholly dependent on food handouts. today the european parliament reaffirms its commitment to the right for development for the iraqi people, as well as their right to peace.
member of the commission. mr president, the post-iraq-war phase can be compared to some degree with the period after the second world war, even if it is not on the same scale. however, we have to get over all our past differences and quarrels and look to the future. that is the only solution. we cannot just talk about the situation, we have to take action, we have to turn the page. that is why the commission has been seeking over the past two years to contribute, through its support for reconstruction, to promote reconciliation within iraq and in the international community. as mr brok and mrs morgantini pointed out, we must also ensure that the rehabilitation and reconstruction of iraq produce benefits for all iraqis. that must be an inclusive approach. of course we have to look to the constitution. it has to be a constitution that gives ownership to the iraqis, that really protects the territorial integrity of iraq but, at the same time, looks to the federal possibilities. that is the only way to secure the right balance between the different ethnic elements. it also has to look to the future, creating a modern society in which women and religious communities must be given an appropriate stake. therefore, the constitution is of the greatest importance. it is also very important to build the institutions of the new iraq. there has been a great deal of talk about energy and trade. i believe that, in order to restore the possibility for iraqis to develop themselves, there has to be capacity-building with the ministries of trade and energy. we supported the elections and we will support the next elections if the security situation will allow it. it is also very important to ensure the further development of the iraqi police and judiciary. the ‘eujustlex’ mission that began on 1 july will be of great importance and will hopefully make a significant contribution. this involves the training of 770 policemen and judiciary members. we also have to refocus on the social services, such as education, health and sanitation. people must be allowed to live their lives. at the moment they only have electricity for a few hours per day, in a climate where temperatures reach 50 degrees centigrade. we know how difficult it is. conditions on the ground are exceedingly difficult. we are also aware of delays in some implementation because of the difficult situation. we therefore have ongoing discussions with the world bank, the un and the iraqis themselves. it is clear that the main responsibility lies with them, but we must give them all our assistance. i agree that it is very important that the international community encourage iraq’s neighbours to adopt the same approach, striving towards reconciliation and unity in iraq. that is the clear message we gave in the international conference. we support the wto proposals regarding iraq. trade and cooperation agreements could be the next step, subject to negotiations with the iraqis. there is a chance for them to build – in a new way – on the current situation in which we are providing them with assistance, but this must be done in a much more orderly way. i am very grateful for the support of the european parliament. i congratulate mr dimitrakopoulos for the excellent work he has done. you see, i can learn and will do better next time.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, may i through you thank all members of the european parliament for a very constructive debate, which has been very interesting for me as well. of course, it is right in one sense to say you cannot discuss the future without understanding the past, and there are different analyses of the past. i happen to think that war was justified at the time. i still do. i respect those who take a different view. what i would say, however, is this: we can argue – and we will argue for a long time – about the legitimacy of the military action, but please do not now argue about the legitimacy of what is a democratically elected iraqi government. there were some speakers who challenged the legitimacy of the current government. with respect, that is wrong. the elections that took place on 30 january took place under a united nations mandate, under intense international scrutiny. they were fair elections: 8.6 million iraqis voted, and they produced a representative assembly which now has instructions from the united nations to bring forward a draft constitution in august and to have it ratified in a referendum in october for there to be further elections leading to a more permanent national government in december. i suggest that it is responsibility of the whole of the international community, in support of that unanimous united nations mandate, to ensure that this process works and ! works effectively. i am deeply grateful to the commission and to the parliament for the support that they are giving to that process. yes, the situation in iraq today is serious. yes, too many are being killed, but i would remind those who describe it simply as some kind of legitimate resistance that the overwhelming majority of the victims of this terrorism are not coalition forces, they are ordinary iraqis. i would also remind colleagues here that in many – not all – areas of iraq there is a fair degree of normality. there have been very few incidents. why? because the terrorism there has been defeated. where there is abnormality, it is because of the terrorism. i am not naive. i accept that, where there is this level of terrorism, there has to be a political process to try to bring people in as well as an immediate security response. it is a matter of great regret that most sunnis decided not to participate in the elections in january. what has happened since – and commissioner ferrero-waldner and i met representatives of the sunni community and discussed the matter with members of the shia and kurdish communities – is an effort by the iraqi government to bring sunnis in. it has been difficult but, just two days ago, the national assembly decided to confirm the representation of 15 sunnis on the constitutional committee. that is of profound importance, a first step in reaching out to the sunni community. there have to be other steps taken as well, so you end up with an iraq that represents all the communities. the other thing i would say is that any analysis of opinion in iraq suggests that, despite the violence today, most iraqis prefer what has happened and is happening today to what was going on before. and yes, there was terrorism before the war: it was state terrorism that led to the death of hundreds of thousands of ordinary iraqis. and no – hundreds of thousands have not been killed since the war, some scores of thousands have been. it is too many, but at least now the iraqis can look forward to a democratic, peaceful future in which they control their destiny, which they never could under saddam. there have been arguments within europe as elsewhere about this situation in iraq. given those, we greatly welcome the very constructive approach adopted by mr dimitrakopoulos and his committee. i thank you very much for that. i know, given the range of opinions, that it was a very hard task to bring together a sense of this and of action for the future. it is well illustrated by today’s debate. i am grateful to mr dimitrakopoulos and also to the commission. for our part, in the presidency, we will do all we can over the next six months actively to support the work of the european union as well as accepting our own responsibilities within iraq as one of the contributors to the coalition.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, those of us who were in edinburgh on saturday were left in no doubt about the strength of popular support for making poverty history. i hope that the g8 meeting this week keeps faith with that passion. i welcome mr straw’s comments on the doha agenda, but the fight against poverty will be won or lost not in headline talks between world leaders but in the anonymous rooms where civil servants hammer out the detail of trade agreements. therefore, could the commission and the council give us an assurance today that, when it comes to nitty-gritty trade discussions in the months ahead, making poverty history will still be top of the agenda, away from the world’s media and away from parliamentary scrutiny? in the detailed backroom discussions on agriculture production, export subsidies, sugar reform, imports of processed goods, rules of origin, the contentious economic partnership agreements, will poverty reduction still be the commission’s and the council’s priority, even when european agriculture and big businesses are lobbying heavily? we must go one step further than trade agreements and support developing countries in building their capacity for trade through things like microcredit and better transport links, as commissioner michel mentioned, so that both regional and world markets can be accessed to the full. some trade-related technical assistance already exists: for example, the commission’s pesticide initiative programme, which helps african farmers meet european food safety standards. however, that initiative is a drop in the ocean compared to what is needed. liberals and democrats have always stressed the importance of fighting corruption and fostering good governance. part of that is a duty of respect to democratically-elected governments, whether we agree with them politically or not. indeed, in its report, the commission for africa stressed the importance of pragmatism, of having a programme of action based not on ideology but on sound evidence about what works and what does not.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, the british presidency, the commission, the president of parliament, bob geldof: everybody is talking about it. and we are all slapping ourselves on the back; there is a mood of self-congratulation over our giving more money to africa, as if, somehow, money will solve the whole problem. well, i am afraid that i remain a bit of a cynic and i see foreign aid as poor people in rich countries giving money to rich people in poor countries. frankly, i think the atmosphere here on monday, when we discussed this, and again today, smacks of rank hypocrisy: all the while we have the common agricultural policy; all the while we have high tariff barriers against agricultural goods; all the while we have the sugar regime and the export credit system. i know that mr blair wants to reform the common agricultural policy. i suspect he is going to struggle, but there is one thing the british presidency could do over the course of the next six months to really help africa. we have spent over eur 2 billion of european taxpayers’ money bribing poor black african governments to allow the spanish fleet in to fish. it has had environmentally disastrous consequences, we have taken away the livelihoods of tens of thousands of indigenous poor black africans, and we have actually killed hundreds of them into the bargain. starting with the comoros deal, renewable in september, will you in the british presidency please stop these appalling fisheries deals and do something to really help africa?
mr president, last sunday my mother celebrated her 100th birthday, a century which has seen wars, famines and pandemics, but also enormous strides in scientific knowledge and capacity. when she was 69, the world food conference pledged a world free from hunger. when she was 91, the world food summit abandoned that pledge and aimed only to halve the number to 400 million by 2015. now that pledge has slipped to 2030. the last century saw millions killed in wars. the last 50 years have seen 400 million die of hunger: three times the cull of a century’s wars. in health, the year 2000 saw, as we know, three million die from aids. but, as we probably do not know, 2.9 million died from diabetes. when we were in mali recently i saw the consequences of the inability to afford medicines, insulin, specialists and nurses: amputations, blindness and early death. so many diseases are untreated or poorly treated and the result is millions incapacitated, with enormous costs to families and to nations. it really is a case of no health, no wealth. those are the challenges, and the answers are capacity-building aid, untied aid, micro-credit schemes to build economies from the bottom upwards; avoiding putting money into the pockets of corrupt officials and politicians; avoiding making aid millionaires; helping to end tyrannies in countries like zimbabwe; avoiding waste on consultancies and top-heavy charities; cutting subsidies in europe and removing the obstacles to trade from developing countries. often when we set new standards for europe, we do not help the developing countries to meet those standards so that they can meet our import requirements. lastly, on debt, let us not make the developing countries uncreditworthy. let us find ways of repaying the debt repayments into those countries, into the millennium development goals, into the country strategy papers, and then debt can be a benefit rather than a burden.
mr president, i have just come back from the civil society alternative g8 meetings in edinburgh, where thousands of people debated how to make poverty history. i want to highlight two important conclusions. first, free trade is not the answer to africa’s problems. while moves to cancel some african countries’ debts are welcome and long overdue, the policy conditionality in the package on offer, the enforced liberalisation and privatisation, are as onerous as the debt it relieves. second, poverty in africa is not the result of some kind of accident of nature. i was very happy to hear jack straw agree that poverty is man-made, but amazed that the men he had in mind were ones that lived in africa alone, not in the g8. poverty in africa is largely the direct and logical consequence of the policies of the g8 nations and their corporations, which have been driving africa’s accumulation of debt, which have been selling weapons, which have been stealing africa’s resources, which have been enforcing neo-liberal economics, which have been privatising public services and which have collectively impoverished so many millions of people. until that changes, until we have an approach based on ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i will begin by saying how proud i am of the uk presidency’s very strong commitment to making poverty history. this is a time of unprecedented opportunity in the world. and i believe that, for every obstacle we might face, there is a solution. the world must at last be ready to keep its promises to africa: on aid, on unpayable debts, and on fair trade. african leaders, as others have said, must deal with governmental issues and with corruption. we must also understand that poor governance is as much a result of pervasive poverty as it is a cause. there are now no ifs or buts or whens. we can work together to invest in better crops, to improve malaria control, to get medicines to the sick, to develop an aids vaccine, to protect fragile eco-systems. we can get millions of children into school and we can save precious mothers’ and babies’ lives. we can speed up developments by empowering women, who in africa are 50 % of the population but 70 % of its poor. conflicts can be resolved, the arms trade can be controlled, and companies can and should be made to trade openly and ethically. africa’s route out of poverty has now been very clearly charted and we need, as gordon brown has said, to have a new relationship with africa. we can be the generation that makes history by transforming the life chances of millions of africa’s people.
mr president, i am privileged. i understand spanish without the headphones. if you speak in spanish to those standing up at the back of the chamber, how can they possibly understand you without their headphones on? could you use french or english so they can understand you? (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, since i became an old-age pensioner three months ago, i am finding it very difficult to raise my hand fully into the voting position in the one-tenth of a second you are giving us!
rapporteur.– mr president, it is quite simple really: there are two dates in articles 26 and 27 regarding the implementation of this regulation. those dates have already passed, so it would probably be a good idea to delete them. i hope the house will consent to that.
mr president, i should just like to speak from the point of view of britain concerning that announcement. may i first of all pay a compliment to the hard work and the very combative way other european cities have fought for the olympic games, particularly our colleagues in madrid and paris. there had to be one winner. from a london point of view, i hope everybody here will attend those games and we will fight at those games in a competitive spirit to show europe at its very best. (applause)
in writing. one of the objectives of directive 2002/95/ec is to contribute to the protection of human health and the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment. the directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in new electrical and electronic equipment put on the market from 1 july unless exempted under the annex. i regret the commission's decision to add decabde to the annex against the advice of its scientific advisors. i call on the council to oppose this proposal.
madam president, i want to explain why i voted not to reject the computer-related implemented inventions directive. rejection prolongs the uncertainty about patentability of software-related inventions and is running away from the need to take a decision. i regret that meps have proved incapable of coming up with a sensible version of the text, one which could ensure support for innovation but also reassure software writers and users that we are not going down an american-style route of allowing patents for pure software. the process has displayed all the defects in the way we legislate at eu level, and these failings must be addressed if meps are to avoid portraying themselves as incapable of legislating on complex but vital subjects. first, secrecy in the council of ministers: it is impossible to be well informed on its reasoning. second, obstacles to understanding because of its impenetrable website. third, the wrong choice of european parliament rapporteur. the convention that a report is the property of a group and it is ‘not done’ to query its allocation to a particular member must be junked. fourth, the stupidity of using a misleading shorthand description like ‘software patents’, which is deeply misleading. fifth, the absence of ‘parliamentary draftsmen’ similar to those at westminster, who can give meps guidance on the precise meaning of terminology.
in writing. today i voted against the common position on the directive on computer implemented inventions (cii) in view of the increased control and over-powering dominance it would give to large software companies and the consequential harmful effects that it would impose on small and medium sized enterprises. i see the proposed legislation of making software patentable as a threat to an industry which requires creativity and innovation in order to thrive. this directive would simply reduce competition hence leading to higher prices and lower quality for software consumers and non-technology businesses. in my opinion, the anti-innovative behaviour that this directive would undoubtedly create would result in nothing but ruinous consequences to democracy, competition and employment.
in writing. europe needs clear rules. there is no question of patenting software which is otherwise well protected by copyright. this would be to sterilize innovation at the expense of research, smes and europe. the common position was in the right direction but left some areas of shadow which had to be removed by voting for the rocard amendments. i would have voted for them if they had been put to the vote. an unnatural coalition has formed to reject the common position outright without attempting to amend it. those who felt that the common position was inadequate joined those who feared that the amendments would lead to a ban on software patenting. the rejection of the proposal in its entirety has the effect of giving them the benefit of the doubt, and the european patent office could thus continue to develop case law favouring the patentability of software "as such". all this at the expense of freedom of thought and therefore progress. i abstained because i cannot approve the common position and because i would have preferred to amend the proposal and not allow the present vacuum and confusion to continue. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. i welcome today's rejection of the draft legislation on the patenting of software. i joined this rejection after careful consideration and discussions on its implications with small and medium sized company directors from my constituency, which includes 1,500 technology companies with around 40,000 employees based around the hubs of cambridgeshire and hertfordshire. one small businessman told me that the proposed legislation was akin to patenting tomatoes in a recipe, so that no new recipe could ever be produced again which contained tomatoes. today's vote is a clear victory for creativity, entrepreneurship and common sense.
in writing. i voted to reject the common position, not because i am against the idea of a european wide patent but because this specific proposal was badly drafted and left some vital definitions of what could be patented clouded in confusion.
in writing. i welcome the recommendations given in the report, in particular the acceptance of my opposition to arbitrary limits on maritime borders eligible for cross border cooperation, which would have left norfolk and other parts of my constituency without the possibility to access funding, despite strong historical and cultural ties across the north sea. my region has participated fully in inter-regional cooperation and parliament's insistence that an independent strand is maintained for such cooperation is good for the east of england, britain and all those who want to benefit by joint working and exchanges across european borders.
in writing. i believe it is essential that we have a better understanding of the amounts of polluting substances omitted by installations and for this information to be made easily available to the public by requiring operators to report their emissions. these objectives are contained in this legislation which aims at establishing a european pollutant release and transfer register and is linked to the proposed decision for the eu to accede to the en-ece protocol of 21 may 2003 and to incorporate its relevant parts into european law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which should guarantee a continuation of european money to the highlands and islands in scotland and offers hope that other parts of scotland will continue to benefit from access to eu structural funds. of course until we have a budget settlement it is impossible to know the extent of the funding flow. i welcome proposed reforms that should enhance the quality of eu structural funds expenditure such as more simplification, better strategic planning, cutting bureaucracy and more transparency and accountability.
in writing. the hatzidakis report sets out the european parliament’s perspective on the future reform of structural funds. the inclusion of ‘statistical effect’, the recognition of natural effect regions, the rejection of the 150 km limit for defining maritime regions, the emphasis on equality issues and the strengthening of environmental concerns should all be welcomed. on amendment 42 and original paragraph 13 the eplp abstained due to the language of the text.
in writing. i strongly welcome the adoption of my key amendments to the erdf regulation, which will ensure full access to the funds, without discrimination, and will also seek to use the fund to tackle the particular social, economic and environmental problems faced by predominantly rural areas, such as my own constituency, particularly through diversification measures, entrepreneurship and through stimulating local employment. i also welcome the adoption of my amendments to mitigate the environmental impact of business and domestic activity, and prioritise climate change, biodiversity, environmental management, and sustainable energy production in the use of funding - growth areas of massive potential in the east of england
in writing. i welcome this report in general but am particularly pleased with the overwhelming support given to proposals to ensure non-discrimination and accessibility for 50 million disabled persons to goods and services, infrastructures, buildings and ict funded by the new regulations for 2007-13. the position adopted on article 2 of the erdf promoting social inclusion and recognising the need to remove barriers faced by disabled people in accessing goods and services in built up areas is particularly welcome.
in writing. the british conservative party support the european social fund and in general the amendments made to the report by the rapporteur. in particular, the initial block vote of 80 amendments contained positive modifications looking to promote womens' participation in the labour market and promoting work-life balance. however, conservatives do not support amendment 58 which looked to specifically promote capacity-building and the networking activities of ngos.
in writing. i strongly welcome a majority of the amendments adopted to the esf regulation, aimed at using esf funding to reinforce social inclusion and sustainable inclusion in the labour market. in particular, my own amendments which seek to improve accessibility for disabled persons in the workplace, and to train employers in equal opportunities recruitment, disability awareness and non-discrimination. i also welcome the adoption of my amendments that prioritise the involvement of local communities and enterprises and promoting local development initiatives, such as urban social projects, lifelong learning and active citizenship. voluntary organisations at the grassroots level must be enabled to take part in our funding programmes. finally, the emphasis on my amendments to supplement employment and growth criteria with social indicators such as skills deficits, numbers of elderly persons and lone parents - mean that pockets of poverty in otherwise relatively more prosperous regions ! like my own in the east of england can continue to have their needs heard at the european level.
in writing. the casa report reopens the cfp reforms negotiated in 2002. the eplp cannot back the report due to the report's inclusion of issues such as boat modernisation and renewal and joint ventures. the use of public money to build new boats and therefore to increase capacity cannot be acceptable at a time when so many fish stocks are under threat. if the european parliament is serious about sustainability then it is a sad day that so many have backed this report.
in writing. i voted for this report which draws attention to the situation of women in turkey. it rightly notes that turkish women face economic hardship, a high rate of violence against them and a low rate of participation in politics - only 44 of member's of parliament are women. however, it is also correct to note that the situation is improving and recent legislative reforms, especially in the penal code, have improved the situation.
in writing. i support the rapporteur's efforts to move the debate on iraq away from the rights and wrongs of the war and the pre-war situation in the country, onto an analysis of the present situation and the future of iraq. the report clearly condemns all forms of terrorism and acts of violence. i welcome its references to the need for respect of international legality and for relevant international covenants of human rights, the respect of women's rights and all minorities in the country and the condemnation of the violations of prisoner's rights in abu grahib prison the report suggests a series of workable measures for the humanitarian, social and economic rehabilitation of the country.
in writing. to be consistent with previous votes on iraq, i have abstained on the whole report and all amendments. this report is badly drafted and detracts from the main issue before the house today which is 'making poverty history'.
in writing. i spoke in our plenary meeting in luxembourg all those years ago in support of the first live aid event. today we have just seen the enormous upwelling of support again following live 8 for making poverty history. yet politicians have failed to deliver, with almost a billion people in the world living on less than one euro a day. words are not enough; we need action. the globalisation intergroup in parliament, which i chair, has over 100 members. we commit ourselves to pursuing fair trade and further aid here in parliament. this will require enormous resources. we believe one source will be through promoting a capital transfer tax. france and belgium have already passed the necessary legislation and italy is considering the same. i call on all other member states to look urgently to emulating them and, in doing so, to raise enough funds to provide basic housing, healthcare, sanitation and education for all those living on less than one euro a day.
in writing. i warmly welcome this resolution as a further step towards the realisation of the millennium development goals, especially with regard to the g8 summit currently being held in gleneagles and the uk presidency of the eu. i particularly support the resolution's call on the uk to use its presidency of the g8 to put poverty at the heart of the international as well as the european agenda, and for member states to underline their commitment to the eradication of poverty by seizing the opportunities offered in the coming months. whilst focus on development policy must remain a key feature of the european union after 2005, i strongly believe we must also be careful to maintain a balanced approach to the eradication of poverty, using trade as central tool.
in writing. the 'make poverty history' campaign has placed the plight of the world's poorest at centre stage. there is an opportunity, as the g8 begins its deliberations today in scotland, to make real progress on africa and climate change. i hope the leaders will grasp this 'thistle' and make a real difference to those most in need.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i speak on behalf of the party of european socialists. this compromise resolution is one that we support, because we believe that it is important that the european parliament speak with one voice. however, understandably it does not exactly represent the views of my group, nor for that matter those of the other groups that have signed it. it is exactly what it says: a compromise. the far east is an increasingly important region for trade and aid with increasing globalisation of both economics and politics. security issues affect us all: now when north-east asia sneezes, we all threaten to catch a cold. i would like to make three main points. first, with respect to the arms embargo with china, it was rightly imposed after the horrors of tiananmen square. we rightly still have concerns about china’s human rights record, but, as the council said, things are moving in the right direction. for us, it is the lack of a full legal base for the code of conduct on arms that is as much a problem for the lifting of the embargo as the situation in china. second, with respect to north korea, as you have said, commissioner, a delegation is leaving tomorrow, of which i am part, under the leadership of ursula stenzel. this will be the first meeting between a standing delegation of the european parliament and the supreme people’s assembly of the democratic people’s republic of korea. this parliament has made its position clear in the past and will reiterate it in the vote tomorrow. the european union has contributed eur 500 million to humanitarian aid, development and kedo in north korea. we believe increasingly that we should have a policy of ‘no say, no pay’. we will seek to continue critical engagement to bring north korea back to the table, out of the cold and into the world, but we want a place at that table when they come back to it. lastly, no country is immune from blame for the current tensions in this region: the china-taiwan, china-japan, japan-south korea issues and that of the korean peninsula itself. there is a continuing need to come to terms with the region’s history. the countries might well learn from the historical franco-german and german-polish reconciliations here in europe. as commissioner rehn said in a previous debate, ‘there is no lasting peace without reconciliation around truth and justice’.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am honoured today to have the opportunity to open this debate on ‘a world without landmines’. support for international mine action is one of the most important political priorities of the european union and i am genuinely grateful for the efforts of the european parliament in helping to ensure that this issue has not dropped down the international agenda. the european union took an active role during the first review conference of the convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction in november 2004, which was referred to as the 2004 nairobi summit on a mine-free world. the european union considers that the first review conference of the convention was an important milestone to take stock of what has been achieved up to now in implementing the convention and identifying what needs to be done to renew the commitment of states parties in eradicating the inhumane effects of anti-personnel mines. there is a risk that we may lose sight of the importance of this issue when debating safely today in the heart of europe or, for that matter, in new york or geneva. i would therefore like to set the scene for this afternoon’s debate with a reminder of the extent and the severity of the problem and why it is important that the european union and the european parliament continue to play such a leading role. it is estimated that between 15 000 and 20 000 people are killed or injured by landmines each year. these deaths and injuries take place in more than 80 countries around the world, from angola to zimbabwe and even closer to home in the balkans. astonishingly, this equates to more than 40 casualties per day, a figure which i am sure everyone here today will agree is simply unacceptable. the vast majority of these casualties occur in countries no longer in the grip of conflict. however, landmines do not recognise the end of hostilities. it is a horrible truth that millions of anti-personnel mines still exist and, in some parts of the world, are still being laid, affecting the poorest people in the poorest countries, the people least able to deal with the threat and the people most in need of our help and support. anti-personnel landmines are merciless and indiscriminate. they cannot be accurately targeted; they do not distinguish between soldiers and civilians, adults or children. the injuries inflicted by landmines on those unfortunate enough to come into contact with them are truly horrific. this is no mistake. anti-personnel landmines have been designed to maim rather than kill their victims. the victims of landmines suffer horribly, being literally blown to pieces. put simply: landmines cause deprivation, random death and untold suffering in many innocent civilian populations. so it is right that the international community should take action and that the european union should be amongst the front-runners. the ottawa convention or ‘mine ban treaty’ prohibiting anti-personnel landmines has enjoyed wide international support and there are now 152 signatories. much progress has been made to combat the scourge of these terrible weapons since the convention’s entry into force in 1999. the convention is a success story. before the convention, 34 nations were thought to be trading in anti-personnel mines. now, apart from some illicit activity, virtually no such trading is taking place. 54 nations used to produce anti-personnel landmines; today 15 nations are thought to have the capacity to produce mines, but most of these countries are not actually doing so. seven years ago mines were used in 19 countries; now it is probably 5. effectively, the ban on these anti-personnel mines is global because of the huge and appropriate stigma now attached to t! he use of these weapons. over 37 million stockpiled anti-personnel mines have now been destroyed. large areas of the world have been cleared of mines and made productive again. these are achievements that the international community can be proud of and would never have come about were it not for the mine ban treaty. but that does not mean we should relent on our objective for a complete universalisation of the ottawa treaty and we must work towards an agreement to ensure that the comprehensive action plan at the nairobi review conference is implemented fully. standing here today before you, i am particularly proud and grateful for the role that the european union has played in the fight against anti-personnel landmines. the european union has helped maintain political cooperation as well as practical assistance. i fully support the european union’s goal to ‘drastically reduce the lingering threat and impact of landmines in the context of increased local security and regional confidence’. some may argue that the european union’s target of ‘zero victims’ is too optimistic and is, indeed, unachievable. but it must remain our goal and we are committed to work towards reaching this target. the european union’s 2005-2007 mine action strategy operates on the basis of three thematic objectives: to reduce the anti-personnel landmine threat, to alleviate mine-victim suffering and aid socio-economic reintegration and to enhance local and regional impacts of effective mine action capacity. in pursuit of our aims, we have demonstrated both political and financial commitment to making them a reality. we will continue to do so. the european union has sought to promote all efforts likely to contribute to the goal of the total elimination of anti-personnel landmines, including through joint action and diplomatic démarches, dialogue with third-party countries, as well as activity in international fora. there is still much to be done. the european union has and will continue to back policy in this area with resources. financially it is projected that the total european union assistance for mine action under our 2005-2007 strategy will amount to at least eur 140 million, which will be linked to the european union’s wider development goals. member states are backing this up with additional bilateral funding to countries in need. it is clear that where there are landmines, there is little prospect for development. the very presence of mines exacerbates poverty by preventing the productive use of land and infrastructure, while the cost of treating injured survivors of landmine accidents drains the poorest nations of already scarce resources. this is why humanitarian de-mining is particularly important. we will continue to support mine action focused on the poorest countries. future mine action will depend strongly on incorporating mine action into countries’ development plans. failure to do so will adversely affect the hopes to achieve the millennium development goals, which will be such a focus of the millennium review summit in september. let me conclude by saying that the european union is determined to achieve the complete elimination of the threats posed by the landmines, by promoting universality, destroying stockpiles, clearing mines and assisting victims. we do so in close cooperation with the international community, be it governments, international organisations or, indeed, non-governmental organisations. let us continue to take concerted action until the last anti-personnel mine is cleared from the face of the earth and the target of zero landmine victims is finally achieved.
member of the commission. mr president, besides being extremely important to the international community and to the european union, the topic of landmines is also of great personal interest to me. during the war my father trod on a land-mine and had a leg amputated, so you can imagine that in a way that marked my whole childhood. i therefore, as foreign minister, felt very strongly committed to the fight against landmines and i think it is a centrepiece to our work on human security. as we have heard, landmines remain a threat in too many countries. five years after the mine ban treaty entered into force and after the successful outcome of the nairobi review conference last year, the international community, with the european union as a leading force, has achieved significant progress towards a world without landmines. to date 144 countries have ratified the mine ban treaty. whilst we have indeed achieved great successes, a lot remains to be done and there can be no long-term security without human security. support for international mine action therefore continues to be amongst the most important political priorities of the european union. our efforts to combat landmines are an integral part of our foreign humanitarian and development policy. in response to the nairobi action plan, the european commission adopted the second mine action strategy for 2005 to 2007 at the end of last year. its overarching objective is a zero-victim target. what we want is a world where no-one will be injured or killed by landmines. this is not a remote political dream. it is an achievable goal. to make it reality, the commission is further strengthening international assistance in mine action, by strongly encouraging states to ratify the mine ban treaty and also by helping them implement it. in this regard, it is my pleasure to announce that, following the recent ratification by the ukrainian parliament of the mine ban treaty, the commission and the ukrainian government have just agreed the details of a major project for the destruction of land-mine stockpiles. we have explained to our ukrainian partners that they needed to ratify the mine ban treaty before we could release any funds. this is therefore an encouraging example of concrete cooperation that promotes universal adherence to the treaty. our strategy is supported by a budget of eur 140 million, 10% more than for the 2002 to 2004 strategy. this money is well spent, not just on marking, clearing and destroying mines, but on alleviating the suffering of the victims, socio-economic reintegration and the enhancement of local and regional capacity. to give you just one specific figure, in afghanistan we shall have spent approximately eur 40 million between 2001 and 2006, in order to make the country safe for the civilian population. i would like to stress that since the signature of the mine ban treaty overall financial support from the community and the member states reached a record figure of over eur 1 billion, almost half the global budget for land- mines. this proves that here too the european union is a global actor that can make a difference and it also proves that the european parliament and the commission, together with the council, are a strong team in foreign affairs. i very much welcome and support all your initiatives and thank you for having put them on the table. finally, i would like to say that we currently face heavy weather, but that is no reason to become introspective. we must remain firm in pursuing our ultimate external policy goal and that is a secure europe in a better, more secure world. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i should like to thank mrs ferrero-waldner for her remarks and commitment. i particularly welcome the british minister of state for europe, mr douglas alexander. it is very nice to see him here. i have been involved in action against the scourge of anti-personnel landmines for some 10 years now. it is a pity that we still have to raise this subject. as the minister has mentioned, many of the poorest parts of the world are still afflicted by these weapons. it is estimated that there are still about 15 000 mine victims every year and millions of mines are still stockpiled. the fact is the armed forces of afflicted countries are not involved enough in mine clearance. too much is left to ngos and the international community and there is a danger that the political campaign that supports mine action will head off in other directions instead of concentrating on what really matters: making safe those areas where the suspected presence of mines is a bar to normal life and economic development and assistance to mine victims. it is most important that the landmine problem is, to all intents, overcome by 2010, in just five years’ time, and does not become one of those problems that never go away. this requires accelerated commitment of political will and of resources by the international community and the affected countries. the commission is to be congratulated for the size, quality and continuity of its contribution, but it needs to attach even higher priority to this problem and we need to ensure the right multiannual commitment of funds and ensure that money is well spent. it is also important that we remain sharply focused, taking account of the requirements of our own professional and responsible armed forces. some seem to forget that it is not the western democracies that are the problem. for the most part, they are part of the solution. i refer to our own governments – the british and other european governments, and also that of the united states, which is among the world’s largest contributors to mine action. the ppe-de group is putting forward its own resolution and is not able to support the resolution by the other political groups, which emphasise widening the campaign to include anti-tank mines and other categories of munitions. this week attention is focused on africa at the g8 summit in gleneagles and here in the european institutions. let us remember that many african countries are amongst the most afflicted by landmines and their presence is a major barrier to the rapid development that needs to take place across the continent if the people of africa are to escape from poverty. let us renew our commitment to overcome the awful impact of anti-personnel landmines.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, just a few weeks ago a bus in nepal drove into an anti-tank mine that had been put on the road by rebels. more than 60 civilians died. that incident – just one among many thousands – highlights the appalling damage that can be caused by modern anti-tank mines. the ban on anti-personnel landmines set out by the ottawa treaty was an important first step. however, for a truly mine-free world, it is vital that we go beyond this and call for a comprehensive ban that covers all types of mines, including anti-tank mines and fragmentation bombs. i am sorry that the ppe-de group cannot join us on this. the horrific incident in nepal illustrates the urgent need to allow specialist ngos to involve non-state actors as well in cleaning mines from areas under their control. we must not forget the role played by financial institutions. i warmly welcome the initiative taken by private belgian banks to stop investing in companies involved in the production of landmines. the eu and member states should work hard to make this fine example of corporate social responsibility legally binding throughout europe. i hope we will send a strong message tomorrow by adopting this excellent resolution and take forward the vital campaign to finally eliminate the scourge of mines, which has killed and maimed so many.
president-in-office of the council. first, let me thank the honourable member for his kind words of congratulation to the united kingdom on securing the 2012 olympic games for london. i would have been delighted if any european city had secured those games, but i was particularly delighted that london has been successful today in singapore. i hope that it will be a truly outstanding european event, and i am sure all members of parliament will be warmly invited, along with citizens from right across this continent. on the specific supplementary question that the honourable member raised, i can assure him that the british government is fully aware of the views of the greek government and the views previously expressed by this parliament on the issue of the parthenon marbles. the united kingdom government considers that this is a matter for the trustees of the british museum, who are, in the case of the united kingdom, independent of government. i understand that the position is that the british museum considers the british museum to be the best place to house the parthenon sculptures. i reiterate that this is not an appropriate matter for the presidency to deal with; it is better taken forward by bilateral discussions between the greek and united kingdom authorities.
while you are absolutely right to say that the issue of the parthenon marbles is a bilateral issue between greece and the united kingdom, would you not agree that there is a need to further discuss our common european heritage and to find ways of sharing, to the best effect, europe’s valuable historic resources?
president-in-office of the council. the council shares the view of the honourable member that efforts must be pursued in order to make more effective the fight against torture and other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment throughout the world. article 3 of the convention against torture, to which all eu member states are a party, provides that no state shall expel, return or extradite a person to another state where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture. regarding the assertion of the honourable member that, both within and outside the european union, certain states have seized and rendered terror suspects from one state to another that is widely recognised as employing torture as an interrogation technique, the council is not aware of the ‘mounting evidence’ claimed by the honourable member. it is for the committee against torture set up by the convention against torture to monitor the implementation of the convention. the council is, and will remain, actively committed to the prevention and eradication of torture and other cruel and inhumane or degrading treatment, in line with the eu guidelines on this subject.
i have heard the answer and am quite happy to forward evidence in my possession, through my office, to the relevant committee and, indeed, to the presidency. it surprises me somewhat that they do not have that information. i can tell the house in very clear terms that there are disturbing allegations that eu member states themselves have allowed their territory to be used as landing points for planes used in extraordinary renditions. member states that allow their territory to be used in this way and allow flights to leave in such circumstances are colluding in serious and persistent breaches. what action does the council plan to take to investigate these allegations and, if member states are found to be responsible for such breaches, is the council prepared to take action under article 7 of the treaty on european union and suspend certain membership rights of those states?
in january the commission reported that only three member states had fully implemented the framework decision of june 2002 on joint investigation teams by the deadline, not including the uk. the commission said it encountered many difficulties in gathering the relevant information. is it not time to stop the tradition whereby the council does not name and shame those countries not implementing the framework decision? is it not also necessary that the council take advantage of the provisions in the current treaty to convert the hopelessly ineffective as well as undemocratic intergovernmental provisions in the law enforcement area to community competence so that suitable enforcements of the law are agreed by the member states? otherwise, how are we ever going to combat crime and terrorism?
president-in-office of the council. the honourable member is undoubtedly aware that in deciding that turkey fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria sufficiently to open accession negotiations, the european council on 16 and 17 december 2004 clearly stated that the union would continue to monitor closely the progress of the reform processes within turkey. in that context, the specific case mentioned by the honourable member is known and has been followed closely. without going into the details of the ruling given recently by the turkish supreme court, the presidency can state that it has prompted some concern on the part of the union with regard to respect for both freedom of expression and association, and for the cultural rights of minorities. the proceedings are still under way and the trade union organisation in question has also stated that it might appeal to the european court of human rights. the presidency can, nonetheless, assure the honourable member here and now that, if need be, and while respecting the principle of the independence of the judiciary, the union will not fail to raise this issue with the turkish authorities, as it does regularly in the various fora for political dialogue as well as within the bodies of the association agreement regarding any problems that arise in implementing the reform process.
president-in-office of the council. although i am respectful of the point made by the honourable member, it is important to recognise that the turkish government has made enormous progress over the last couple of years through the adoption of a series of constitutional and legislative reforms. major reforms include the abolition of the death penalty, new protections against torture, greater freedoms of expression, association and religion, ratification of international agreements on human rights, greater cultural rights for kurds and others, and reduction of the military’s role in the government. the december european council to which i referred endorsed the 6 october commission recommendation that – and once again i quote – ‘turkey has met the copenhagen political criteria that accession negotiations be opened’. the council’s conclusions welcomed the decisive progress made by turkey in its far-reaching reform process and express confidence that turkey would sustain that process of reform. turkey’s human rights record will be the subject of intense scrutiny during the accession negotiations. we remain confident that all remaining concerns will be addressed during that accession process.
supreme courts are by definition laws unto themselves and i think you are absolutely right to emphasise that this one unfortunate and unsupportable decision should not in any way impinge on the progress of turkey towards membership of the european union. they have, as you have outlined, made significant efforts to meet european norms and we should not blow this one incident out of all proportion. does the council agree?
i welcome the minister to the house. i hope he is enjoying the experience. i wonder if he could tell me whether or not he agrees with the comments made by president papadopoulos who said recently that proposals to open direct trade with northern cyprus would have no real or substantive economic effect but would amount to a political demand aimed at politically upgrading the north? would he agree with me that the treatment of turkish cypriots – who are after all eu citizens – by their neighbours on that island, which amounts to nothing less than economic apartheid, is unacceptable and must be stopped, and will he give some indication of the practical steps his presidency will take over the next six months to bring this about?
president-in-office of the council. the council supports the establishment of an eu human rights agency, which will play a major role in enhancing the coherence and consistency of the european union’s human rights policy. following the adoption by the european commission of the proposal to establish the fundamental rights agency, the council will place the proposal before a working party for examination. as for the protection of minorities, the honourable member is kindly reminded that legislation has already been adopted in an effort to tackle discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. the european commission is due to report in 2006 on the state of transposition of directives 2000/43/ec and 2000/78/ec. furthermore, the council takes note of the communication of the european commission of 1 june 2005 on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all, a framework strategy, in which the commission proposes to establish a high-level advisory group on social and labour market integration of disadvantaged ethnic minorities. under the united kingdom presidency, the council, as well as the european parliament, will deal with the european commission’s proposal for a decision on the european year of equal opportunities for all – i.e. 2007 – built upon four key themes: rights – raising awareness of the right of equality and non-discrimination; representation – stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of under-represented groups in society; recognition – celebrating and accommodating diversity; and respect and tolerance, promoting a more cohesive society. the total proposed budget is eur 13.6 million, which would cover preparatory actions in 2006, as well as the activities due to take place during the european year itself in 2007.
i hope it was not the scottish accents coming across. the president-in-office is extremely clear. i should like to welcome him to his office with no irony at all – as we have heard from one or two other members – and thank him for that very positive answer. i would like to remind the president-in-office that the united kingdom has implemented all the directives that he mentions. we have taken a lead on this. many member states have yet to implement anti-discrimination legislation. could i ask whether you agree with me that the eu fundamental rights agency, which has broad support in this house, is something that could be strongly developed under your watch and that we should ask the member states who have yet to implement anti-discrimination legislation to do so as quickly as possible?
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for his question. i am respectful of the expressed desire that i speak slightly more slowly. i hope it was a reflection on my speed and not my accent. i can assure you that if i appeared speedy in my initial answers, it was only through my desire to reach as many questions as we can in the course of the limited question time available to us today. i am also grateful to the honourable member for acknowledging the work of the united kingdom government on this particular issue. i personally judged that it would be deemed rather unpresidential for me to boast in that regard, but i note the comments he has made. i am grateful for his warm welcome to my speaking role today. the united kingdom welcomes the commission’s proposals, and the presidency also does so, on the establishment of a fundamental rights agency. we are in favour of an effective, independent fra, with well-defined work objectives that do not duplicate the work of existing bodies. that was the subject of a discussion that i held with colleagues in the council of europe this morning, just across the river. we believe that the agency should give priority to areas such as racism and xenophobia, building on work already done by the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia. we will work with other member states to develop the details during the course of our presidency.
without wishing to undermine the very serious question put by my good friend and colleague claude moraes, i notice that you welcome this particular agency. i wondered if you could share with us your thoughts on how many agencies you believe the eu should have and whether you would agree with me that the eu generally needs fewer agencies and more action?
president-in-office of the council. i do not wish to break the consensus that appears to have broken out in the chamber when answering the honourable member’s question, but i have never seen a contradiction between the establishment of a necessary agency undertaking important work and action being taken by the european union. perhaps that is simply something on which we disagree.
minister, welcome to your debut in the european parliament. on the issue of the fundamental rights agency, i have deep concerns about the risk of duplication with the existing excellent work within our own parliament in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the work of the council of europe and the un’s human rights commission. how can you ensure that there will be no be duplication and therefore no waste of eu taxpayers’ money?
president-in-office of the council. the council refers to its reply to written question e-0229/02. regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 19 december 2001 on cross-border payments in euro has applied since 1 july 2002 so far as electronic payment transactions, cash withdrawals, and card payments are concerned, and since 1 july 2003 to cross-border credit transfers. it provides for charges levied by financial institutions for cross-border transactions between member states and the euro area to be aligned with the charges levied for similar transactions within the member state in question. other member states may apply the regulation to cross-border payments and credit transactions in their own currencies. it is recalled that the commission has exclusive right of initiative in the field of community regulation referred to by the honourable member. however, should the commission decide to send a proposal to that effect, the council of course would consider it.
thank you very much for that answer. like you, i am very familiar with the ruling of the 2001 council, to which you referred at great length. however, putting that to one side. would you consider personally that it is a matter of concern that international banks are making huge amounts of profit at what is now the touch of a computer button for people transferring money within the internal market?
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i am happy to take questions 9, 10 and 11 together. as the honourable members are aware, the council is committed to the fight against incitement to hatred in broadcasts. article 22(a) of the television without frontiers directive provides that member states should ensure that broadcasts do not contain any incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality. however, the directive does not apply to broadcasts intended exclusively for reception in third countries, nor to broadcasters not under the jurisdiction of a member state. following the measures taken successfully by the french, dutch and spanish authorities on the basis of the directive, al manar is no longer broadcast by any eu-based satellite company and the television without frontiers directive no longer applies to it. the council discussed the issue of incitement to hatred in broadcasting from countries outside the european union at its meeting on 23 may 2005 and took stock of work initiated to respond the problems posed by satellite broadcasting of non-eu channels in the european union. this followed a meeting of the presidents of national broadcasting regulatory authorities on 17 march 2005, which agreed to reinforce cooperation between the regulatory authorities and identified concrete measures to strengthen this cooperation, notably information exchange regarding channels authorised in member states, establishing a contact point within each national authority. in the council, delegations took note of the measures and proposals outlined to combat incitement to hatred in broadcasts. they recognise that consideration should be given to the means of combating more effectively the broadcasting of such material in the context of the revision of the television without frontiers directive, n! otably the adaptation of this instrument to the most recent technological developments.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for the honourable member’s generous words and good wishes at the outset of our presidency. as i sought to reflect in my initial answer, we wholly condemn actions which are taken towards inciting the kind of terrorism and acts of violence which he describes and i hope my earlier remarks reflect the seriousness with which we regard this problem.
i would like to thank you for your considered reply and also for the fact that the british government has belatedly given consideration to banning hizbollah’s so-called civilian wing, whereas in fact there is no difference between the civilian and the military wing. today was a great day for the city that i represent, london, in our winning the olympic bid for 2012. one of the messages from the prime minister in singapore was that the olympics will be used as a vehicle for peace and friendship amongst nations, as a way of combating this kind of hatred between peoples. what more can be done to stop eu member state registered companies giving advertising revenue to television companies like al-manar? in addition, what pressure can you bring to bear through the council on the governments of egypt and saudi arabia to stop them broadcasting to the arabic-speaking communities resident in eu member states listening to this hate-filled type of broadcasting?
president-in-office of the council. following the declaration by the heads of state and government on 17 june on the ratification of the constitutional treaty, the council has not taken a decision on what further steps, if any, might be taken on the preparations for the introduction of the european external action service.
since the external action service would exist to assist the union foreign minister, since the union foreign minster can only exist pursuant to the constitution, and since the right to act on behalf of the eu only arises on foot of the eu itself having a single legal personality, does it not follow that its legal authority arises from the constitution? since there is a pause for reflection with regard to the constitution, should the same not apply to the external action service if that pause is genuine, rather than cosmetic? for if implementation action continues, is the council not then flying in the face of the public rejection of the constitution and all its manifestations?
president-in-office of the council. clearly the future of preparatory work on the european external action service is tied up with the future of the constitutional treaty. the honourable member is right to acknowledge that there is now a pause for reflection following the decisions reached at the brussels european council just a couple of weeks ago. that time – now for reflection, as identified by the european council – will continue for a number of months. let us be clear, first of all, that the preparatory work to date has consisted of discussions between the member states, the council secretariat and the commission, as tasked by the heads of state and government in october 2004. it is the case that the luxembourg presidency took forward preparatory work as tasked by that intergovernmental conference and, indeed, by the december european council. this work, however, has not pre-empted the ratification process: it has consisted of discussion and exchange of ideas in brussels. as i said in my initial answer, no formal decisions have been taken.
does the presidency accept that the constitution in some places makes mandatory things that are already perfectly possible and legal under the current treaties? for instance, the council could decide, by changing its rules of procedure, to meet in public when dealing with legislation. national parliaments could be better involved with early information, and some aspects of the external action service may, for instance, be explored in due course. i note that mr allister prefers not to go down that route. presumably, he, as a good federalist, wants the external representations of the union to remain under the commission and not under mr solana.
thank you very much, president-in-office. i do not think i have ever had such a full reply to a question. i am very grateful for that. i must also say that i have never seen the council benches so full. i think this is the first time that the people on the council benches outnumber the rest of parliament put together. what an impressive start you are making. my supplementary question is this: there is nothing wrong with the president-in-office saying he does not know the answer to the question, as he did in his previous guise a month ago, and promising to write to us. however, is he now saying that a promise to write to us after question time will not produce a reply and that we must put down a supplementary in order to get the answer? or, if he does not know the answer, will he in future do what he said in his previous life and write to us as he promised?
president-in-office of the council. the gleneagles g8 summit, taking place in scotland this week, will focus on two key issues: africa and climate change. africa, because the continent contains 18 of the world’s poorest countries. it is currently not on target to meet any of the un millennium development goals first set out at the millennium summit in 2000. the continent needs a step change in development, financing, health, education, governance and the capacity to trade in global markets and programmes for dealing with killer diseases and building african peacekeeping capacity. climate change is our additional priority, because it is clear that our world is warming up. major irreversible change in our climate is a real threat and the most important issue we face in the long term. tackling the problem needs a global approach. the summit is an opportunity to move forward the debate at the highest political level and to help forge a common vision. the european union plays a leading role in both issues and has already agreed policies on them. the g8 agreement does not bind the european union, but may serve as a catalyst for future discussions within european union structures. the g8 summit outcome may give rise to discussion in the relevant council formations. for example, the 12 july ecofin meeting will discuss development financing. all political and legislative initiatives at european union level will, of course, follow the normal eu procedures for discussion, agreement and adoption as appropriate.
before getting to the substance, i too should like to congratulate the president-in-office, not just for the quality of his responses but for their speed. he might be interested to note that i was speaking to a group of scottish visitors just before coming back here for question time. they asked me about the g8 and i told them that i had a question – no 16 – but there was no chance of reaching it, so i am very pleased that we have indeed reached it. he is absolutely right to say that the g8 does not instruct the european institutions, but it would be foolish of the eu institutions not to respond to the outcome of the g8 discussions. he has already given a partial answer to this question, but will he go further and consider asking both the commission and the council secretariat systematically to go through the g8 conclusions to see where follow-up action is required by the eu institutions?
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the european parliament's support for the conclusion of the agreements on the association of switzerland to the schengen and dublin acquis. this positive attitude is all the more important now that the political procedures for ratifying these agreements have been completed in switzerland, the most important step being the referendum on 5 june. we all, not least the european parliament, should take advantage of this upsurge in switzerland to create a positive mood for the european cause. this of course includes completing the procedures on our side as quickly as possible. the agreements signed in luxembourg on 26 october 2004 are a positive sign for the further development of relations between the union and switzerland. the schengen agreement, which is being voted on, will also bring concrete improvements for eu citizens. this is particularly true of the many thousands of commuters, professional drivers and travellers who have to cross the border every day. these persons will benefit from considerable relief, particularly after the implementation of the agreement. the schengen and dublin agreements also provide greater security through cooperation in the fight against crime and in the field of crossborder data. that is why it is so important that the european parliament should support the conclusion of the agreements. unfortunately, there are differences of opinion between the commission and the council on the one hand and parliament on the other as regards the procedure to be followed for the accounts. the commission has reviewed its position. there is a point on which there is agreement: the two agreements are not association agreements within the meaning of the ec treaty, even though the word association appears in the title. however, the commission also considers that these agreements do not create a specific institutional framework for cooperation procedures. the existence of a joint committee alone is not sufficient. i would like to stress in this connection that the joint committees are only responsible for deciding whether the conventions should be maintained in force if switzerland fails to comply with its obligations under the treaties, in particular the transposition of the schengen or dublin acquis into national law. these joint committees also have considerably less powers of organisation than existing joint committees established by other bilateral agreements with switzerland. for these reasons, the commission considers that the legal situation is such that both agreements do not require approval. the commission therefore sees no reason to change its proposal for a decision at this stage. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your attention and look forward to the debate.
rapporteur.– mr president, like a curate’s egg, as they say, that introduction by the commissioner was good in parts but not in all parts. i am greatly honoured to have conduct of these matters. my respect for not only the institutions of europe but also for the swiss institutions and people knows no bounds. it was only because of the willingness of the swiss people, through their referendum on 5 june, to see greater cooperation between switzerland and the eu that i was able to proceed with my proposals. as the commissioner has already pointed out, these are good proposals. they are radical, particularly from a swiss perspective, because although switzerland retains its independence, if the report is adopted its borders will now effectively allow more movement of people. it will retain strong control over movements of goods but there will be greater movement of people, much better cooperation between law enforcement authorities and, through switzerland's involvement in the dublin acquis, close involvement in determining who is responsible in the case of difficult asylum applications. these are all very good, progressive and acceptable developments. they could well be the start of many more agreements based on a similar approach, an approach that was adopted previously with both norway and iceland and is now being used with switzerland. as i said, i very much respect the decision of the swiss people on 5 june and i am therefore happy to proceed. however, although i have heard the commissioner's explanation on the mixed committees and hence the legal base, i still have considerable problems. i look at this not so much as a lawyer myself, but on the basis of our legal advice, which appears to be ambivalent. from my point of view it indicates that the right procedure would have been the assent procedure rather than consultation. that is the basis on which i intend to proceed. i still hope that we might be able to reach an accommodation here, because the purpose of my two amendments to this report is to make sure that this is an assent and not a consultation procedure. obviously there might be an ongoing dispute. i am disappointed in that part of the commissioner’s speech, because she seems to indicate that she is happy that her legal advice is better than mine. i suppose you do not always have the same legal advice when you have two lawyers, any more than two economists ever agree on financial matters. nevertheless, i feel very strongly that this is important, not only in this particular case but also for other matters and agreements that we might bring to parliament for consideration in future. my committee is quite clear about this, having taken advice, and i too feel very strongly. i do not want to be seen to be blocking progress or obstructing the will of the swiss people, who are very interested in the outcome of our discussions and what i am doing here. however, it is in everybody’s interests that we make it clear that the european parliament very much guards its right to be involved in assent procedures in the limited fields in which they apply. we feel very strongly about that. i hope that the commissioner will be able to reconsider. the council is not present, but it had a similar view. i would like to see the matter reconsidered, because these freer relationships can only be to the benefit not only of the swiss people but also of all of us in the european union, especially its institutions, and in particular the european parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mrs zimmer on her report on the impact of the european investment bank's activities in developing countries. we believe that this report raises many very important questions, and i will not hide from you that i share the analysis of many of them. before commenting in more detail on the report itself, let me first give my impression of the state of implementation of the investment facility. some of you know that i wrote a letter to mr maystadt in february this year expressing my concern about the cotonou investment facility. i am glad to say that the situation has improved considerably since then. the improvements that can be seen include a greater willingness to take the risks inherent in investments in developing countries, or the systematic application of a new framework for measuring the impact of development operations. we are in contact with the eib for a simplification of the decision-making structure for the projects of the facility. in short, we believe that the investment facility is on the right track in the acp region. i now wish to make five comments on the report, and i shall begin with services of general interest. we fully share the need to improve the provision of services of general interest in developing countries, for example in the water and transport sectors. as many of these projects are not commercially viable, they obviously require an element of subsidy. we have therefore proposed to the member states that the interest rate subsidy package for the acp investment facility be doubled to eur 400 million for the next budgetary period. as regards cooperation between the eib and the commission, we recognise that even more needs to be done to improve infrastructure services in developing countries. the commission is preparing a communication on africa, as you know. this communication will propose to significantly increase the availability of regional and transcontinental infrastructures. this will require substantial efforts in terms of coordination between the eib and the commission, and even with other financial institutions or bodies. in this context, a group of commission and eib officials is currently analysing how our two institutions can cooperate better in the future. of course, it will also be important to cooperate with other donors, as i have just said. as far as microfinance is concerned, we fully support the reference to microfinance in the report. as 2005 has been declared the international year of microcredit by the united nations, this issue is a political priority. in this respect, the commission has recently decided to significantly professionalise the commission's assistance to microfinance. an important pillar of this new approach is to cooperate more closely with development banks, notably the eib, in the provision of micro-credit. the commission therefore strongly supports the european parliament's call for increased support for eib microcredit. as regards development indicators, we also recognize the need for the eib to adopt the commission's key indicators for assessing the results of its operations and to have an independent evaluation unit. finally, with regard to the revision of the external mandates, we recently proposed, at a meeting of the commissioner for external relations with president maystadt, to increase the development dimension of the eib's external activities outside the acp region. the review of external mandates, which is currently being initiated by the commission and the eib, offers the opportunity to do so. i would not like to end this speech without paying tribute to president maystadt and his team, who have shown, at any rate in all our meetings and contacts, a very open mind. clearly, at least at the level of the eib presidency, i feel very strongly that there is a very wide openness to development and that if president maystadt cannot go further in efficiency, it is also because, unfortunately, there are rules and that his goodwill has limits. but he is a man who is open to reform. it is even considering the possibility of reforming the eib so that it is more sensitive to development issues and that the development dimension is taken much more into account in the decision-making bodies, which is obviously difficult in the present state of affairs and given the way the decision-making bodies are composed.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs zimmer on her excellent report and congratulating the commissioner for his proactive initiatives. i know he has been going up and down to luxembourg to see mr maystadt and i think something very good is going to come out of all this. the eu is the largest aid donor in the world. the eib’s lending facility is four times the size of the world bank. but you, mr president, know everything about the world bank. who knows anything about the eib? unless we do something about it, we could even change the eib’s name to the european invisible bank. the eib should be europe’s premier financial institution for lending and development. it should lend to infrastructure and to smes. it should lend microcredits. it should lend beyond the edf. it should be able to lend to all the developing countries that the european institutions help. the eib’s statute needs to be strengthened by parliament: to create a legal base, to have a grant funding element so that its lending and its interest charges can be much more competitive and be given with some security. for example, if the eib were to lend at 1 % a eur 1 billion loan, it is only going to cost eur 10 million. if it were to charge 2 %, it is only eur 20 million. what is eur 20 million in our development budget? very little, but it would enable the eib to give billions to create infrastructure, create small businesses, create microcredits, and it would cost our community aid budget eur 20 million. that is all we are talking about. i think it is high time we did this.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome your interest in the community action plan on regulation, governance and trade in flegt forestry. however, an action plan is not enough, it must also be implemented. this is why the commission adopted proposals to implement the plan in july 2004. these proposals consist of a regulation establishing a voluntary authorization system for imports of timber and a recommendation for a directive on a mandate to negotiate partnership agreements with timber-producing countries. these proposals are currently being examined by the council. i hope that an agreement will be reached this year. in the meantime, we have set aside €17 million to finance pilot programmes that address the key aspects of the action plan, including to encourage independent monitoring of logging operations, to strengthen local civil society and to encourage the private sector to follow the broad policy guidelines set out in the action plan. we also committed €3 million to support international and regional dialogue on improving forest governance and combating illegal logging. a €15 million technical assistance programme is also due to start in indonesia in 2005. we have also endeavoured to develop a common approach with the member states of the european union. as part of our joint work plan, bilateral agencies of european donors are currently conducting informal consultations on flegt partnership agreements in potential partner countries, including ghana, cameroon, the republic of congo, gabon, malaysia and indonesia. this should facilitate the formal negotiation of partnership agreements once we have a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the community. we have also committed ourselves at commission level to analysing the feasibility of additional legislation to support the flegt action plan, i.e. something a little more coercive and voluntary. the evaluation is ongoing and is being carried out in close cooperation with the member states, as many potential measures are obviously within national competence. options assessed include public procurement policy, money laundering, stolen goods and anti-corruption legislation, in addition to the feasibility of the practical aspects of the new legislation to control imports of illegally harvested timber. i hope that this work will be completed during the year. in conclusion, i would like to say a few words about the calls for a unilateral ban on the import of illegal timber. i personally fully understand the interest behind these calls. however, a unilateral ban on the import of illegally harvested timber into the european union would not, it seems, provide our customs authorities with an instrument to confirm the legality of the timber. to do this we need the full cooperation of the exporting country, which is why the commission has proposed a voluntary system based on partnerships with the producing countries. these partnerships will combine a set of governance reforms in producer countries with measures to combat illegal timber imports into the eu, including an import licensing system. this approach would enable us to tackle both the supply problem in the producing countries and the demand problem in our own markets.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, every so often i am in touch with father hector turrini and he with me. this is in order to keep him alive. he is a priest living in acre in brazil. he and his mission seek to protect the local communities from the loggers. some of his mission have been murdered and he tells me that he expects one day to be killed himself. those are the lengths that illegal loggers will go to for criminal gain at the expense of the environment, local communities and even human life. in papua, stone age communities are exposed, their health contaminated, their cultures destroyed by loggers bulldozing their greedy way through rainforests. the european union is still one of the largest importers of illegally sourced timber. in europe we have lost most of our ancient forests and woodlands, to the detriment of our environment and our native species. it is not too late to protect the less developed parts of the world and thus protect the two-thirds of the world’s land animals and plant species that live there. but we need to move fast. papua new guinea has already lost 65% of its rainforests. globally, 10 million hectares are lost every day. since 1970 an area of rainforest the size of france has been lost in the amazon. twenty million people in the amazon and 12 million in africa are at risk, not to mention the great apes and other species of mammals and birds found nowhere else in the world. in 1998 the g8 agreed that action was needed. in 2003 the flegt was designed to help developing countries to stop illegal logging and to reduce the trade in illegal products, particularly those that come into the european union. but it is not yet being implemented. the commissioner has helpfully told us what action is being taken. i would say to him that every day we delay, lives, livelihoods, environments and species are being lost.
for the pse group mr president, i am very glad that you are here, commissioner, tonight, because it gives me the opportunity to thank you for your contribution to the debate on poverty this morning. at the same time, i think that the theme of this evening is development and, as mr bowis said, life and death. mr president, this morning we had a long debate about poverty. we talked about how we can resolve it and about governance issues. illegal trade is a key factor in bad governance. as we have just heard, the european union is one of the biggest importers of illegal logging. when the governments of developing countries don't get any revenue, don't get their duties, that is money that could have been spent on the millennium development goals. this is a very important issue in terms of both development and the environment. i am glad that the commission is taking action. i am glad that the flegt is going to be implemented, but i am not sure that it goes far enough. i am not sure whether any voluntary measures go far enough. you said something, which i didn't catch, about some kind of legal framework; i'm not sure what that means. we need something more than voluntary systems and something more than a trade measure. we need something that is an environmental measure, using the proper environmental parts of the treaty. we also need something which can be debated in the public domain. we do not want something done through trade, with parliament only having an opinion; we want codecision on this very important issue. you are a relatively new commissioner. you have inherited this file from your predecessors. i hope that you will bring forward proper legislation under the environmental heading and tackle this very important development issue, which is vital if we are ever to make poverty history.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, first of all can i say how glad i am that we are having this discussion tonight. illegal logging has not, until now, been given the priority it deserves in the commission or the council, despite the fact that half the logging in vulnerable regions is illegal and that every year an area of rainforest the size of belgium disappears. the motion for a resolution deals comprehensively with actions that can be taken to stop illegal logging, but the most important thing is that some action is taken. this is a case of the best being the enemy of the good. we do not need further delay while we argue how far action should go. voluntary partnership agreements are a good place to start. developing countries will need support to get the necessary certification systems in place, but such support is already available as an element of development cooperation, as the commissioner has just indicated. it is widely believed that voluntary partnerships will not put a stop to all illegal logging. i hope, therefore, that the council and the commission will clearly flag up right now that further action is anticipated down the line in order to deal with the refusniks who are not prepared to go down the path of voluntary agreements. however, there are several things we can do from the european side to make voluntary agreements a success. twenty per cent of timber in europe is purchased by governments, so member state public procurement policy has a huge role to play. by insisting that governments purchase only legal timber, member states can wield an enormous carrot, pulling producer countries towards certification. so far, unfortunately, only five eu member states have moved towards a public procurement policy. secondly, we can make use of consumer power. over 70 european timber firms have already signed up to a declaration committing them to trading only in legal wood. they are not being altruistic. they know that consumers do not want to buy furniture from illegal sources and that people are quite prepared to pay a little bit extra to make sure that their tables and chairs have not added to the destruction of the rainforest. i hope, therefore, that we will have no more delay. let us get on with implementing the flegt action plan.
mr president, commissioner, we look to you to take a lead. we look, first of all, for you to get this legislation which, as you said, was approved by the commission on to the statute books. it is now two years since the commission gave the approval, but where is it? it is not stuck in this parliament, that is for sure. we have no say over the matter. it is stuck in council. that logjam needs to be unblocked. i hope the uk presidency will give you support in making sure that happens but, if there are member states which are standing in the way, which are making life difficult, then we look to you to name and shame them. let us have these ngos putting pressure on them. as mr bowis said, people are dying to save the forests and some member states are just showing reluctance to get a sensible, positive measure of this kind up and running. and where were the commission’s resources? minimal resources were being devoted to this behind the scenes. i am told by some people that you have about one person devoted to making this legislation happen. that is pretty minimal. please wave the flags, say you need more. last month you met a delegation of members of this house to discuss the possibility of introducing legislative options. i know that you are not yet convinced, but you explored some very interesting ground then. you said you might be able to put some proposals to the commission in september. can you still stand by that statement? and have you considered the possibility of introducing legislation as a back-up means, to use your own words, as a ‘carrot and stick’ to encourage countries to sign up to voluntary agreements with the threat of a more difficult regime to follow? commissioner, there is nothing more to be said, except that we all know that the forests are disappearing at a huge rate. the best we can possibly hope for is to slow that pace of destruction, but we simply cannot stand by. we need you to help us focus our efforts, produce results, and we want to give you as much support as we can in achieving that objective.
mr president, i very much regret that we are having this debate at this time, as it sends a confusing and essentially negative message to the people of bulgaria. i must say that, as parliament’s rapporteur on bulgaria, i was not consulted or even informed about any suggestion that parliamentary observers should be delayed or indeed that some fresh emphasis should be placed on the possibility of delaying bulgaria’s accession until 2008. at the last meeting of the committee on foreign affairs in brussels on 21 june, attended by commissioner rehn, i asked for and received an assurance of the commitment to the timetable for enlargement, in spite of the failure of the european constitution. i recall the commissioner’s words that bulgaria and romania were the last enlargement, not the next enlargement. their accession is guaranteed. the question, perhaps, is when exactly? we all recognise that much still needs to be done if bulgaria is to be ready by 2007, but the task is eminently achievable. the one mechanism for delaying accession is the safeguard clause. in the case of bulgaria, unlike romania, this would require a unanimous decision of the council. i see no merit, therefore, in raising any false spectre of delay. i remain optimistic that bulgaria will accede on 1 january 2007. i have always underlined the need to ensure that each country is dealt with on its own merits and that the fates of bulgaria and romania should not be inextricably tied together. it is widely accepted that bulgaria has fewer problems than romania. i am only too aware that the elections in bulgaria on 25 june have produced an unclear result. the process of building a government coalition is urgently under way, with a view to convening the parliament on 11 july. the debate tonight merely adds to uncertainty, both in government circles and among the citizens of bulgaria. they are even beginning to think they are not wanted. i strongly reassured them. what is required in bulgaria is continuity, stability, commitment and clarity, not uncertainty and negativism. on the question of the observers – and i hope you will bear with me as the rapporteur for bulgaria – i agree with the commissioner and thank him when he says that the arrangements for the observers are a matter for this parliament. it was confirmed to me in writing just two weeks ago on 16 june by the leader of the ppe-de group. he said as follows: ‘the conference of presidents has decided on its last meeting to invite the observers from both accession countries romania and bulgaria to join the european parliament for the september ii session in strasbourg’, which means from 26 september onwards. observers from last year’s ten accession states had been invited to join us as soon as possible after signature of the accession treaty. that is the precedent we should follow. any other decision would send an unhelpful signal to our bulgarian and romanian friends. i very much look forward to welcoming them here in september as observers and as full members from january 2007.
mr president, our parliament overwhelmingly approved the accessions of romania and bulgaria to full membership of the european union during our plenary session in april. the week before, our parliament’s jpc delegation, chaired by my group colleague mr podestà, visited our romanian parliamentary colleagues and met with the president, the prime minister and the home affairs and justice ministers. on 9 june the conference of presidents sent the invitation to the romanian and bulgarian parliaments to nominate their european parliament observers and for them to take up their duties on 26 september. last week i was invited to return to bucharest to address the appointed observers. i regret the european parliament appears just now not to have maintained a consistent common approach, and that my own group at present may not be wholly associated with the joint motion for a resolution to be voted tomorrow. i have had the privilege of belonging to the ppe group for over 15 years. it is a privilege i firmly intend to preserve. i hope, even at this hour, we may come back to a common agreed position. we have given our word, expressed in our name by the president of our parliament to the observers, that they should take up their duties from 26 september. if we were to go back on our word, what signal would that send to romania; to those brave statesmen, politicians and public servants who are struggling to bring democracy, economic, administrative and legal reforms? they regard the prospect of eu membership as the guarantee that they will achieve their goal. let us remember the difficult history of these countries. in bucharest, before the senate house, opposite the royal palace, there is a memorial inscribed with the words ‘glorie martirilor nostri’ dated december 1989. it commemorates the fact that over 1 000 young people, students and soldiers lost their lives demonstrating and defending the demands for freedom. how should we honour their memory? this moment of uncertainty in the eu is a time for our parliament to show courage and perseverance. we have given our word. we intend to abide by it and welcome the romanian observers as promised on 26 september this year so that together we may work for a further successful enlargement of our european union.
mr president, the g8 leaders in scotland are exercised about the sustainability of our world. if they travelled a little way to the cairngorm mountains and the abernethy forest reserve, they would see one of europe's natura 2000 sites, covering 13 000 hectares of ancient caledonian pinewood, moorland, lochs and mountains, which is the habitat for rare species such as the capercaillie and the black grouse. the former, which was previously thought to be the bird most likely to become extinct in the united kingdom within 15 years, is now doubling its numbers. the reserve, with its osprey centre, attracts some 100 000 visitors a year and gbp 1.7 million a year and provides 87 jobs in a previously poor rural economy. we are seeing such results all over europe, from scotland to spain to germany. the iberian lynx in spain has been saved by natura 2000. in brandenburg, where the great bustard population had fallen from 4 000 in the 1930s to a few hundred, 9 500 hectares of monoculture have transformed its prospects and also brought economic benefit to an economically depressed area. we are talking about our european heritage, which we have a duty to protect. life + is the new financial instrument that, with the structural funds and rural development fund, will enable natura 2000 to continue to succeed. on 8 june, parliament voted for ‘a significantly strengthened life + programme’. i know that the budget will not be easy this year, but we pick up the proposal for a ring-fenced amount of eur 21 billion over seven years in that resolution of 8 june. we suggest how life + could be significantly strengthened. life iii, with its three components of nature, environment and third countries, has been a success in all respects, but particularly perhaps in the natura 2000 sites of life nature. life + will take this forward and this report will help that process. i hope that the commission will respond supportively, constructively and imaginatively.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the issue of textiles and clothing after 2005 in many ways marks the demonstration of a new era in world trade practices and the growing strength of emerging economies. this new era is one that belongs to the innovative, those with relevant knowledge and those who are able to recognise changing world climates and adapt accordingly. there are many well-rehearsed arguments setting out the current difficulties that we are facing in the textiles sector here in the european union. whether they are that, as a continent, we simply were not prepared for 1 january 2005, or that the chinese state involvement in the production processes of its manufacturers distorts true market competition, it is certain that the experience we are having today with textiles will, in time, prove not to be unique. indeed, i just read a report in the guardian newspaper this morning that sets out details of the first round of imports of 4x4 vehicles from china, at a price that i cannot see any current suppliers ever being able to match in the eu. that is the extent of the competition that we are now facing. we must recognise that the economic world order is now changing at a pace as never seen before. that creates for us many managerial challenges at eu level and it is here that we, as an institution, must do all that we can to empower our entrepreneurs with knowledge so that they may continue to compete and lead the field in our areas of expertise. it is not desirable that management of the sort that we have recently had to endure through negotiations with the chinese should happen again with any of our competing partners. the commission was right to take the steps that it did, but that is no long-term solution. our experience should widen our vision, strengthen our position, so that we may seize the opportunities that lie within the management challenges that we face. i represent a constituency with a long history of leading in the textiles trade. the cotton mills of lancashire helped form the backbone of the industrial revolution in the united kingdom. much of that has changed over the years. mills that once employed thousands now employ in the very low hundreds. that change started in the 1980s, when changing conditions demanded computer-generated production processes and the longer-term efficiencies that they produce. it was unfortunate in lancashire that the management of the process was not provided at a governmental level, and many valued and skilled people found themselves with redundant skills overnight. the vision, lack of provision of knowledge to empower and innovation was not catered for at a national level. the new changing circumstances that we face must not be allowed to be a repetition of that experience, but rather a window in which we evolve our industry. the report, as finalised by the committee on international trade, is one that i am able to recommend to this house. i congratulate the rapporteur.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i thank mrs saïfi for her timely report and believe that the end of the multifibre agreement poses a very great challenge to a great many countries around the world. the world bank and the world trade organization predict that as a result of the abolition of all quotas china’s share of world trade in textiles and clothing will rise from 17% in 2003 to over 50% by 2010. some argue that to date china’s imports have mostly grown at the expense of imports from other third countries which have seen their share of the eu market decrease, but it is already very clear that the eu textile and clothing industry is experiencing significant pressure. according to the european apparel and textile organisation, eurotex, the sector could risk losing 1 000 jobs a day and up to a million jobs before the end of 2006. i welcome the steps that the commission has finally taken to address the problem but i wonder what makes them so confident that a few years’ breathing space will really make any long-term difference. since the sector in the eu has already had ten years in which to make adaptations to this new reality, what more will they do in the next few years that they have not already done? my concern in saying that is that the commission is under-estimating the size of the challenge we face. its response has been to urge european manufacturers to produce higher-value products rather than competing with china on basics, yet china’s ability to climb rapidly the value-added ladder across so many sectors shows how unhelpful this advice is. the commission has also failed to acknowledge that this challenge is a systemic one, not a one-off sectoral one. the textile sector is likely to be only the first sector among many. as mr karim has just said, we already know that there are many other sectors that are about to cause us concern in terms of chinese competition. i am thinking of footwear, bicycles, machine components, and also high-tech goods. but if the impact in the eu will be severe, in many parts of the developing world it will be devastating, especially for women who are disproportionately represented in these sectors. in 2000 textiles and clothing accounted for 95% of all bangladesh’s industrial goods exports. in laos they accounted for 93%, cambodia 83%, pakistan 73%, the list goes on. the sector employed nearly 2 million workers in bangladesh, 1.4 million workers in pakistan. little wonder, then, that several dozen countries led by bangladesh and mauritius made an eleventh hour appeal to the world trade organization to save their textile industries. it is very unfortunate that their appeal fell on deaf ears, because china’s deflationary pressures are already driving down wages, pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in a bid to remain competitive. in the philippines, for example, the government has ruled that its law on the minimum wage will no longer apply to the clothing industry. the bangladeshi government has recently announced that it will increase the number of authorised overtime hours and reduce the restriction on women’s night work. now, part of the solution undoubtedly lies in pressure on china to meet social and environmental standards, so that its competitive advantage is not based on the appalling exploitation of workers or the environment. but that alone is not enough. the challenge posed by china raises some fundamental questions about the logic and direction of free trade itself and it demonstrates the destruction that happens when a country has not just a comparative advantage but a more or less absolute advantage in so many areas. the old theories about free trade always being a win-win arrangement are shown to be fundamentally flawed and therefore the commission urgently needs to undertake more research in order to understand these new trends better and formulate appropriate policy approaches. finally, i just want to say that i regret that two of the amendments submitted today link textiles and reach. i think those amendments are very misleading and unhelpful and unfortunately, largely because of those amendments, my group will abstain on the final vote on this report.
mr president, important as this debate is, it pales into insignificance when compared with the atrocious terrorist attacks in my capital city today. i would like to join, i am sure in the name of all in this house, in utterly condemning that terrorism and in expressing condolence and sympathy to those who have been injured and killed. we live in an age where terror seems to know no bounds. coming from northern ireland, where we alas have known much of that in our history, one’s heart goes out to the people affected by this morning’s terrible events. turning to this subject, northern ireland, like many parts of europe, once boasted a vibrant and large textile industry. today it is reduced to all but nothing, with thousands upon thousands of job losses. since trade policy was foolishly handed over to the exclusive competence of the eu, the plain truth is that member states are powerless to act in the face of cheap imports ravaging their textile industry. the plain truth is also that the eu has failed the textile industry. the abolition of import quotas on 1 january 2005 has, in the uk and elsewhere, caused soaring imports, especially from china. whereas we are denied import quotas, china’s state owned factories benefit from export subsidies, state aid and even free electricity, as well as the benefits of its artificially undervalued currency. little wonder that we cannot compete. commissioner mandelson’s decision to impose anti-dumping duties on certain synthetic fabrics is welcome so far as it goes, but often such fabrics are then further processed in china to give them added value, thereby avoiding the anti-dumping duties. for example, a synthetic fibre that might be subject to that duty is given added value by making it into a roller blind, whereby it escapes the anti-dumping duty and is dumped in the eu at ridiculous prices. that loophole must be closed. generally, the commission needs to be much more robust with china than it has been hitherto.
deputising for the rapporteur.– mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur and under rule 53 of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask the commission if it is now prepared to accept the amendments of this house.
member of the commission. honourable members, the commission maintains its position as stated yesterday by my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner, meaning that the consultation of the european parliament is required.
deputising for the rapporteur.– mr president, in that case, again on behalf of the rapporteur, i should like to ask the house to refer this back to committee for further consultation.
deputising for the rapporteur.– mr president, i rise under the same rule, for the same rapporteur, and i put the same question to the commission, please.
member of the commission. i take note of parliament's position and will certainly inform the college of this.
deputising for the rapporteur.– mr president, that may be half a step forward, but i should still like to refer the matter back to committee for further consultation.
in writing. i'm voting today for my report on the initiative by the grand duchy of luxembourg with a view to adopting a council decision adjusting the basic salaries and allowances applicable to europol staff because we have received some assurances that there will be a greater level of accountability and transparency in the way that europol's activities are conducted. europol is extremely important to european citizens and to the european parliament. its activities on issues such as drug trafficking, illegal trafficking of human beings and other organised crime is vital work which has increasing importance with the enlargement of the eu and potential further enlargements. in voting for my report, i have noted the ep hearing with the new director in june 2005 of europol and the ep visit to europol's headquarters in april 2005. it is important we support the work of europol, but that, in turn, the council understand the urgent need for accountability and transparency in europol's core work. at present we have not yet achieved this level of accountability.
in writing. i voted for this report. life+ is the key instrument for the development, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and communication of community environmental policy and legislation. it will notably support the implementation of the 6th environment action programme. we must ensure that a proper budget is established for life+ commensurate with its ambitious goals.
in writing. the massacre in srebrenica, bosnia, ten years ago should never be forgotten. in july 1995, the bosnian serb army took control of the small spa town which had been declared as a un ‘safe area’. within five days 7 000 men and boys were brutally murdered. this was the worst case of genocide in europe since the second world war. a decade later and still the men who ordered the massacre are at large. the eu must do all it can to put pressure on the relevant authorities to capture and put to trial those responsible for this atrocity.
in writing. the epp-ed group abstained on the resolution tabled by the other political groups on anti-personnel landmines largely because we do not support those parts of the resolution which call for a widening of the anti-personnel landmine campaign to include anti-tank mines and other categories of munition, which are currently required in the inventories of our responsible armed forces. these weapons are, in any case, under consideration by the parties to the convention on certain conventional weapons (ccw) - a highly responsible group which is examining matters such as detectability, fuse design and self-destruction in order to minimise collateral effects. we attach importance to maintaining a broad consensus on the anti-personnel landmine issue, and therefore remaining focused on what really needs to be done - making safe those areas in many parts of the world where mines are a threat to the civil population and an obstacle to economic development and assistance to mine victims.
in writing. the illegal and unsustainable exploitation of forests has a devastating effect on both mankind and nature. in vulnerable regions such as the amazon, central africa, south-east asia and russia more than half of the logging activities are illegal. the government of brazil announced last year that the destruction of the world's largest tropical forest, the amazon, proceeds apace. in the 12-month period ending last august, farming and logging, much of it illegal, destroyed 10,000 square miles of forest. this was the biggest one-year loss since 1995, when the amazon shrank by about 11,000 square miles. internationally the eu has committed itself to protect the last ancient forests and to fight the illegal exploitation and trade of timber through cites, wssd and cbd. in may 2003 the european commission published the forest law enforcement governance and trade action plan. i urge them to speed up implementation of this important initiative.
in writing. my intention was to abstain on the vote on the resolution as a whole on the kauppi report.
in writing. i welcome this report as a contribution to finding a way forward in completing the internal market for financial services, specifically in the area of clearing and settlement for securities transactions. a common regulatory and supervisory framework for clearing and settlements is necessary for the further integration of the single market in financial services. this report sets out a reasonable approach to devising such a system.
in writing. i warmly welcome this resolution on observers from bulgaria and romania. the presence of observers from the bulgarian and romanian parliaments can make a useful contribution to the preparations for a successful accession and i look forward to their arrival.
in writing. the european democrats and many others within the epp-ed group fully supported the joint motion and acted to oppose negative proposals, which were then withdrawn. we regret the fact that this issue was unnecessarily brought before the house at this stage. we confirm our commitment to the early enlargement of the eu to include bulgaria and romania and to welcoming parliamentary observers from these countries in september. this is as soon as possible after signature of the treaty of accession, in accordance with precedent. we all recognise that much still needs to be done if bulgaria and romania are to be ready for accession on time. but at this stage it is most unhelpful to talk of delay and prematurely to raise the spectre of safeguard clauses. in this regard we reiterate the need to ensure that each country is dealt with on its own merits. the elections in bulgaria on 25 june produced an unclear result. it is most important therefore that a stable and broad-based coalition government, with strong elements of continuity, is put in place as soon as possible to implement the necessary programme of modernisation and reform with urgency and effectiveness.
author– mr president, as masses of people demonstrate about the situation in africa, the g8 leaders are meeting in scotland. it is most apt that we should have a resolution on zimbabwe. ‘operation drive out rubbish’: that is what robert mugabe calls his latest atrocity. his government has been responsible for destroying the homes and livelihoods of as many as 1.5 million zimbabweans. that number will rise if we do not take the necessary action. just last week a pregnant woman and a four-year-old child were killed during the mass eviction of 10 000 people from the outskirts of harare. imagine the pain and suffering, watching helplessly as your home is bulldozed, then to have no knowledge of where you are being taken. in spite of amnesty international’s urgent appeal to exert pressure on the mugabe regime, the african union last week still refused to condemn president mugabe. the people of zimbabwe are victims of a human rights catastrophe. human rights abuses can never be just an internal matter for a country. it is up to us all to raise our voices in protest and it is even more important that zimbabwe’s neighbours condemn the atrocities. however, we should not just raise our voices and then carry on as usual. that is why the return of asylum seekers to zimbabwe should be halted now. otherwise eu governments like the uk government can quite rightly be accused of gross hypocrisy.
author.– mr president, i wish to begin by expressing, as a british mep, my deep sorrow at the news of the explosions in london. while a clear picture has yet to emerge, it certainly has all the trappings of a coordinated terrorist attack. yet again we are reminded of the fragility of our world order and the need to work together to eradicate such barbaric, mindless acts. freedom and democracy are the fundamental tenets of the union. just as we continue to espouse these principles within the union, we need to translate this commitment into tangible actions against regimes that are diametrically opposed to such freedoms. that is why i am lending my wholehearted support to the resolution on zimbabwe. it is not sufficient for the international community to indulge in the occasional ritual condemnation of president mugabe; rather, we need to see a strong and viable opposition to him. if we are truly proponents of a free society, then how can we continue to stand by and allow this dictatorial oppression to continue unabated? why, as a union, have we not levied increased pressure against the regime? why have we not tightened and enforced sanctions? why has the council refused to respond to parliament’s consistent calls in this respect? furthermore, it is a great disappointment that south africa and a number of zimbabwe’s other neighbours have chosen not to intervene in the plight of the zimbabwean people. we have witnessed the entire resources of a once wealthy state enslaved. we have seen their people denied their intrinsic human rights, and yet this oppression and destruction has elicited little response from their neighbours. i would suggest to president thabo mbeki of south africa that his choice not to criticise president mugabe is a very disturbing indictment on his views of what constitutes a fair, free and open society. at a time when the international community is galvanised to address the endemic problems that africa faces, it is only appropriate that we look beyond poverty relief to the maintenance of good governance, transparency, the rule of law and respect for human rights for all african countries. i therefore call upon this parliament to support this resolution wholeheartedly.
author.– mr president, may i first of all express my utter condemnation and disgust concerning the terrorist attacks on london today in which, according to the latest reports, over 40 people have been murdered and many hundreds injured. i extend my deepest sympathy to the victims and their families. the people of zimbabwe live under a different sort of terrorism. it is unremitting and comes from the hands of the very authorities that should protect them – the government, the police, the army. the situation there is desperate and deteriorating. since fixing the election in march, mugabe has now deliberately destroyed the homes and livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of the poorest zimbabweans, while millions more continue to rely on international food aid for their survival. what does it take before the world responds to this catastrophe? africa is at the top of the agendas of today’s meeting of g8 leaders at gleneagles and of the uk presidency of the eu. the focus on africa is bolstered by the massive wave of popular support for bob geldof’s live 8. all recognise the need for improved aid, debt relief and fair trade. they also all acknowledge that, without good governance, much of the value of such assistance will be destroyed. the attitude of african governments to zimbabwe is a true test of their commitment to such good governance, yet south africa, the key to bringing about change in zimbabwe, continues its quiet complicity with mugabe’s oppression. i have asked the british foreign secretary and president-in-office of the council, jack straw, to urge president mbeki, who is at gleneagles today, to condemn mugabe and to use every means at his disposal to bring about change for the better in zimbabwe. opposition leaders from southern african countries know what needs to be done. i have spoken to some of them here today in this parliament, but their governments must be empowered to act and the eu itself must get serious. the council and commission must have a fresh determination to get a result. it should no longer tolerate excuses for evasion of its sanctions and those sanctions must be toughened and extended. and they must ask themselves: what specific additional action should we be taking? this parliament will give them some advice in its resolution today, and i hope they will take notice.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share quite widely what has been said and what is included in the resolution. of course, the mugabe regime is an unacceptable regime, which does absolutely unacceptable and abhorrent things. we agree on that. i would like to add a few nuances to the answers that need to be given on a tactical or strategic level, given the regime in place and the means at our disposal to make things go forward in a positive way. when you talk about sanctions, for example, i naturally share your view on sanctions which directly affect the zimbabwean authorities: let them be applied! and i would even add: what are we waiting for to apply them? i agree, of course. however, we must be very careful that certain types of sanctions have a negative impact on the population. i am not in favour of sanctions in general, and i would rather be in favour of political dialogue. we have seen that sanctions, when they affect the population, are usually directed against those who apply them and not against the authorities against whom they were intended to be applied. that is a preliminary point i wanted to make. now, i'd like to say something, knowing that by saying it, i'm exposing myself. but it would be wrong of me not to tell you how i feel about this debate. it is very easy for us europeans to denounce, to attack almost every day through press releases, mugabe. you should know, however, that every time mugabe is attacked, he reinforces his iconic image as a black hero versus the evil white colonizers. someone once said, i think it was mr meijer: it is clear that mugabe is using this infernal mechanism to regain political health, popular health. you have to know that. there is something else you need to know, or the information will be incomplete. i certainly agree with you that maximum pressure must be applied, but it must be done subtly. it should also be noted that the leaders of the other african countries that you denounce for not daring to take a stand, or make a value judgment on mugabe's behavior, these leaders are put in trouble in their own country every time mugabe reinforces his iconic, heroic image. you must know this and you must also know that it is extremely difficult for mr. mbeki, and i say right away that the plot of the old boys... (mr michel interrupts a member's question)...no, but of course not, there is no plot by the old boys i'm sorry, it's an insult to the south african president to talk about an old boys' plot! what mr mbeki and other african leaders fear is, in reality, that the phenomenon of violence, the phenomenon, somewhere, of "anti-colonialist uprisings" will spread to neighboring countries. i have discussed this issue many times with the representatives of the african union, with the various heads of government of these neighbouring countries. i can tell you that they wish, they want, to put pressure on mugabe, but they want to be in a position to do it. and it is not enough for the extra-african community to revive the debate and to raise the threat of sanctions by saying, forcefully, more sanctions are needed, we must be tougher. first of all, what do you mean when you say you have to be tougher, tell me what to do? should we send in troops? what do you want to do? president barroso condemned in the strongest terms mugabe's attitude to the recent expulsions. apart from that, apart from the vengeful, sometimes morbid press releases and the mechanical roundabouts, i would like someone to explain to me what it means to be tougher, unless we open a debate among ourselves about the duty or the right to interfere. i'm ready to open it. i am not closed to such a debate, but i am not sure that on that day, when we come here to ask for troops to go and bring order to zimbabwe - and the african union must also accept - we will not cause great harm to africa and to the african regional institutions. and i'm even less sure that we'll find candidates here to make up the bulk of the troops needed. what i am simply saying is that we should try to be consistent when we defend points of view. we're not just a sounding board. at some point, i too must be told and the european institutions must be told: what more must be done? we denounce, we keep denouncing. i met konare in sirte four days ago with president barroso. the essence of our conversation was to say: but, mr president, why do you not denounce mugabe's behaviour, the african union? to which he replied: but, my dear friend, every time you attack mugabe, you make it much more difficult for us, because our people consider mugabe not a tyrant, not a dictator; they see mugabe as, at heart, standing up to these evil colonialists and embodying the true resistance, true to history. that's what i hear and i believe it. so at the very least, even though i know we can't do it, we should, for a few weeks, keep a low profile and not talk about it too much. i am almost certain that the african union, the regional organizations, president mbeki and others would then be put in a position to exercise their peer review duty. i'm almost certain you'd put them in a position to do that. as long as we continue to bombard mugabe's attitude with statements and vindictive cries, with ostentation, excuse me for saying this, we will not be able to get the judgment from the african union and the african organizations that we expect. but it is the only way to influence, and i believe that is the way to do it. i don't think there's any other bias that's going to make us successful. you must know that. i am very often in these countries and i am quite hurt to see this infernal mechanism: the more tyrannical it is, the more the european union or other international bodies intervene to denounce it, the more popular it is. but if this infernal mechanism did not exist, it would undoubtedly not last long. because that's all he cares about. what mr meijer said is true: it is this mechanism that works. to sum up, we must be very careful when we attack the african union and the african leaders in the region. we are not, i absolutely deny it, supporters of this regime. i can tell you that i am not at all a supporter of this regime and i can tell you this because i have repeatedly tried to make things work with south africa. at one point, south africa tried to convince mugabe to open his government to a national unity government, to bring tsvangirai and his party into the government. at one point, things had moved in the right direction. then came the sanctions, which again created an extremely difficult climate. i condemn in the strongest terms mugabe's attitude. i believe that the measures, the sanctions against the zimbabwean authorities must be implemented. there is no reason not to apply them, that goes without saying. i agree with the main points of the resolution. i'm just trying to explain to you the limits of what we can do usefully, because the problem is actually doing things usefully.
mr president, on a point of order, the commissioner has had almost ten minutes to stand up and make an apologia for mugabe’s regime and the inaction of mbeki, the commission and the council. this is disgraceful. there is a procedural problem in this house. how can we have a proper debate when we are limited to one or two minutes and then the microphone is turned off, while the commissioner can stand up and make this disgraceful response? he has denied everything that every member of this house, right across the political spectrum, has said. (applause)we do not have the power, you have the power, commissioner. i have been talking, along with other colleagues today, to members of the political opposition in many countries in africa. they do not share your view, commissioner. (the president interrupted the speaker)it is the most disgraceful outburst i have heard from a commissioner in a long time.
author.– mr president, guatemala has been caught up in a culture of violence which the government seems unable to curb. there is a feeling of terror, mainly among families living in the slums, which suffer the highest murder rates. trafficking of women and children is commonplace. ‘no protection, no justice’. that is the title of an amnesty report published last month which estimated that nearly 1 200 women and girls were brutally killed between 2001 and 2004. many had been raped. fewer than one in ten murders have been investigated. a nine-month study beginning in 2003 discovered that 688 girls were trafficked into different guatemalan cities. these girls were not only from guatemala, but from other latin american countries as well. as the girls were recruited by criminal organisations, all the victims were between 14 and 18 years old. they were led to believe when recruited that they would work as waitresses in guatemela, only to be told the true nature of the job afterwards. they are often beaten up or locked in a room for several days without food for being disobedient. they do not run away as they are living in a state of fear. the government must prosecute the criminals who are involved in this trafficking. other illegal practices have developed, including kidnapping babies, payments to mothers to rent out their wombs and buying of babies from very poor mothers. guatemala must bring in specific legislation on adoptions and apply the hague convention on intercountry adoption. measures must be taken by the government on all these issues. if it does not do that, we as an international community are quite right to condemn it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, in this debate on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in ethiopia, i cannot allow the dreadful events in london today to pass without comment. i do not represent london – or england – but i will say that we scots stand foursquare beside our nearest neighbour, our friends, our colleagues and indeed our families in london and elsewhere. tomorrow will be for questions and for reasons. today is for decency and humanity. in our interconnected world, an attack on the rights of the innocent in london, in ethiopia, anywhere is an attack on the rights of us all. and in the light of today’s events, it makes it all the more imperative that those of us on the side of human rights and the rule of law speak with a clear, loud and forcible voice in the world. if we agree on nothing else, it must be that illegal violence against the innocent is never and can never be the answer. on the widespread abuse of human rights in ethiopia, i wholeheartedly endorse the earlier comments of my group colleague mr romeva i rueda and would add that press freedoms must not be forgotten in this debate. the freedom of the press is pivotal to a free society and a free world. these freedoms are also being widely infringed in ethiopia and i would add my condemnation to that of the house. there is little debate within the house on the substance of the motion for a resolution before us, but events outwith this house make it all the more important that we protect these rights.
mr president, i believe this has been agreed by all political groups. in paragraph 17 of the resolution, we should like to delete the words ‘government of national unity’ and insert the words ‘transitional government’. could i also suggest that in paragraph 18 we also include the g8 governments.
mr president, i implore you, on behalf of edinburgh in scotland, to reconsider, with the bureau, its flawed decision to hold the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in strasbourg, rather than in my home city, edinburgh. it is bad enough that we have to come to strasbourg, without inflicting it on innocent third parties. edinburgh and scotland hosted the g8 summit this year. the uk currently holds the presidency of the european union and scotland wants this meeting to be in edinburgh. the edinburgh bid was better and cheaper. the scottish government will commit 100 000 scottish pounds to help this event take place. we are used to welcoming hundreds of thousands of people to scotland with warm scottish hospitality every day. we want this meeting to be held in edinburgh and we are willing to play our part to make it happen. i hope you and the bureau will be able to play your part and reconsider.
mr president, last week marked the first anniversary of the beslan massacre, which resulted in the deaths of 331 people, of which 186 were children. astonishingly, the self-confessed perpetrator of this crime, shamil basayev, was appointed deputy prime minister of the so-called chechen government-in-exile on 25 august. this man is a wanted war criminal and has close ties to islamist terrorist groups like al qa’ida. the so-called foreign minister, a mr osman ferzaouli, who resides in denmark as a political refugee, says this will result in basayev being more responsible in future. the culture minister, akhmed zakayev, resides in my city, london, also as a refugee, and in the past has denied any links with mr basayev. surely russia will accuse the european union of double standards when we rightly demand that they punish those guilty of atrocities in chechnya whilst we in the eu are giving harbour to these individuals who support terrorist action. the governments of denmark and the united kingdom should revoke the asylum status of mr ferzaouli and mr zakayev.
mr president, the lower clyde on the west coast of scotland has a fine record for building world-class ships. that industry has been in serious decline for the last 30 years. now ferguson’s – one of the few remaining yards – sees its future threatened. mr president, as you know, all new orders for ships in the european union have to go out to public tender. ferguson’s recently lost a competitive tender to a company called remontowa in gdansk in poland. they believe they lost it on unfair terms. the commission is now investigating suspected state aids to that particular yard. i am raising this matter today because two new ships are out for tender and it is important that the next competition be based on a level playing field. mr president, i ask you to join me in urging the commission to complete its investigation as a matter of urgency so that we can know that this tender process will be on the basis of equals tendering for the contract and not with one company facing competition with one hand tied behind its back.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to a major industrial dispute in my constituency of london which affected many thousands of air passengers around europe – that of the gate gourmet workers, 670 of whom were arbitrarily dismissed from their jobs on 13 august without any redundancy payment. this led to a major strike by british airways staff and caused major disruption for many passengers. having visited the workers during the summer recess, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the poor industrial relations records of some of these companies and the need for an amicable settlement. all that the workers want is reinstatement, and if that is not possible, then redundancy payment. the company is moving in the right direction, but we should send the signal that throughout the european union we want fair and balanced industrial relations, and observance of the law, so that consumer disruption of this kind can be avoided and workers can get on with their lives, and so that people with over 30 years’ service in such companies receive the justice they deserve.
mr president, (the speaker spoke irish) on 28 july, the ira made an historic decision to end its armed struggle. sinn féin believes that there now exists the opportunity to achieve irish republican objectives through purely peaceful and democratic methods. this courageous initiative removes all remaining obstacles to real political movement and a shared future. those who held up the ira as the only impediment to peace have no more excuses. there is an onus upon the democratic unionist party to engage with my party. thus far, they have refused. there is also a responsibility on the british government to implement the aspects of the good friday agreement on which it has so far reneged. meanwhile, the summer months have been characterised by attacks against vulnerable catholic and nationalist homes. bricks, petrol bombs, pipe bombs and gunfire have been an ever-present reality. residents feel vulnerable and powerless and they feel angry at the inaction of the police service of northern ireland and the relative silence of unionist political representatives. the job for all those connected with the irish peace process is immense.
mr president, since we last met, a member state of this union, the republic of ireland, has been shamefully harbouring three convicted international terrorists. ira terrorists monaghan, connolly and mccauley were duly convicted of training farc guerrillas in colombia. they skipped bail – partly put up, it is said, by the dublin government – and now, on the back of a sordid deal with the ira, and despite interpol warrants for the three men, they are brazenly flaunting themselves in dublin. to date, ireland has done nothing to meet its international obligations, but continues to provide complicit sanctuary for these international terrorists, making a mockery of their affirmations in this house, when president of the council, that they were committed to the fight against international terrorism. i condemn that duplicity, i condemn that hypocrisy but most of all i call on the dublin government to end the shame and to return these fugitives forthwith.
mr president, along the same lines as mr allister, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that, during the summer, we witnessed the return to dublin – to the republic of ireland – of the so-called colombia three. as you may be aware, mr president, the three men involved were convicted in colombia of assisting farc terrorists there. in the interests of fighting international terrorism, these men should be returned to colombia to finish the sentences they were given originally, and not be allowed to go free, as they are at present, to flout international will. you cannot, on the one hand, pay lip-service to the fight against terrorism if, on the other hand, you overlook what is actually happening within a member state of the european union. this has got to be acted upon, and acted upon positively, and the response should be made in a very responsible and effective manner.
mr president, i am grateful to you for drawing the attention of the house to the catastrophe in louisiana and new orleans. some of these people are of french and spanish descent and are, of course, american citizens. the european commission has an ability to provide extremely good advice and support through echo. all around the world in crises of a similar type, echo has played a prominent advisory role – in the tsunami in indonesia and sri lanka, and in other instances such as the mozambique floods. i have discussed this matter with commissioner michel and am requesting this parliament to ask the commission to send an echo team to advise the united states authorities, both state and federal, on our experience of dealing with these matters. it is our chance to give something back to the american people.
mr president, on 29 july, criminal indictments against subsidiaries of ubs, deutsche bank, citigroup and morgan stanley were announced by prosecutors in milan who are investigating the collapse of the giant italian dairy company parmalat. within 48 hours, a former member of the citibank board fell to his death from his new york apartment and a former president of the european central bank, wim duisenberg, was found dead in his own swimming pool. mr duisenberg, of course, enjoyed the support of deutsche bank in his fight for the presidency of the ecb. given the curious coincidence and timing of these unusual and unexpected deaths, this house might hope that europol and the intelligence services will look closely at the surrounding circumstances.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i welcome the commission's initiative requiring the best practice of some member states to be applied to all. it is certainly the case that an impressive number of parliament's amendments have already been adopted and i think congratulations are due to the rapporteur. i am sorry that the council has introduced a number of loopholes. i rather prefer the commission's more ambitious proposals. well, let us see how the votes go. but even if some of the more controversial amendments before us are accepted, i think that the council and industry should understand that parliament's representation on the conciliation committee will be positive and pragmatic. it is not in any of our interests to require steps to be taken that would hinder the efficient and economic operation of this industry. we must accommodate some of the concerns expressed, for example the need for a proper transitional period to ensure that problems with mines closing prematurely in order to avoid the obligations of this directive are circumvented. but the council should understand that parliament must insist that reasonable steps are taken to ensure that the natural environment is properly protected from commercial interests otherwise tempted to think only of short-term gain. as the rapporteur and the commissioner have pointed out, the sins that have been committed in the past need to be avoided in the future.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group . – (the speaker spoke in irish.) mr president, although mining is less widespread in ireland now than it once was, some mining companies have left a legacy that continues to pollute our land and water due to a lack of proper checks. a case in point is the situation in tynagh mines in co. galway in the west of ireland, which, since its closure in 1981, has continued to be an environmental hazard. throughout the european union, hundreds of millions of tons of waste are generated by mining and many sites left in a condition which poses grave dangers. it is important, therefore, to deal not only with waste generated following such a directive but also to deal with historical waste arising from facilities that have been abandoned or which were not shut down properly. we should also reverse the council's lifelong exemption from some of the key provisions for certain existing facilities. the rapporteur's proposals, as one of my colleagues has already said, are balanced; they should be welcomed by responsible companies within the mining industry, as well as by people whose lives and livelihoods have been damaged by irresponsible mining operations. i commend this excellent report by mr sjöstedt and thank him for his work.
mr president, ´one size fits all´ is one of the curses of eu legislation and, if the committee on the environment, public health and food safety gets its way, we will have under this directive another classic illustration of it in action. although not all extractive industries have the same environmental and safety impact, if the committee on the environment succeeds, then this legislation will make them all needlessly subject to the same restraint. legislation to fit the need is one thing, legislation not tailored to need is invariably oppressive and destructive of competitiveness. so it is here, with the rapporteur trying to require all sites – regardless of size, product and complexity – to comply with all articles. there is no sound reason why the shallow sand quarry should be subjected to the same legislative demands as the large, deep mine producing hazardous waste. the requirements for non-hazardous or inert waste should remain proportional and not, as proposed by the committee, be largely subjected to the same stringency as category a hazardous-waste sites. the framework directive on waste and the landfill directive make adequate provision for non-hazardous waste quarries. there is no convincing or compelling reason for these further burdens to be placed on this important sector of our economic production.
mr president, i am delighted to have the opportunity to contribute to the debate this evening. i am extremely concerned about this issue, because once again europe is trying to bring in and implement a draft regulation that tries to make one suit fit all. i do not think this can work and that is where i have a problem. we should not be so dictatorial with our directives. as someone has already pointed out in this debate, not all quarries that are extractive industries are the same. i have no doubt that some of the very large industries will be able to cope with this and take it in their stride, but the small entrepreneurs trying to develop small industries and get them off the ground are probably going to be hit very hard. i have no objection when we are talking about hazardous waste, because that always has to be controlled. but it will be the smaller businesses where jobs will be lost; they are the ones that will go to the wall. nor do i believe we should bring in directives that are not implemented in the same way in each member state. i have personal experience of this. i come from northern ireland, part of the united kingdom, and across the border, in the republic of ireland, the waste oil directive is interpreted differently. in quarries six miles apart, one in dundalk and the other in newry, a european directive is being implemented differently in two member states. waste oil is considered hazardous in the united kingdom, whereas in the republic of ireland it is not. this is forcing quarry owners to move from northern ireland to the republic of ireland in order to compete, because otherwise they cannot. i do not believe that we should be producing european directives that can be interpreted in different ways. i believe that will happen with this one as well, and quarry owners are not happy about that.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i welcome the commissioner’s statement. liberals and democrats opposed a reference to a christian heritage in the preamble to the constitution because the union also has a jewish, a muslim and a secular heritage. we do not oppose article 52, which imposes an obligation on the state to maintain a dialogue with faith groups. cavour’s famous dictum ‘a free church in a free state’ should be the basis for relations between the two. yet it is not only across the atlantic that a regression can be seen: proposed concordats with the holy see in some member states show that the division between church and state in europe needs reinforcing. relations between church and state should be based on mutual respect. one of the problems of the secular state is that respect has sometimes given way to indifference towards faith groups and occasionally even to scorn. belief is an integral part of the human condition. for many citizens, religious faith is a part of self-development, and government at eu- and national level must value and respect individual faith and its expression through faith communities.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the commission has provided us here with the very barest of outlines, when we could have had much greater detail of what was being said. i also echo the remarks made by other speakers concerning the separation of church and state and wish that it applied to my own member state. a number of us have been raising questions because we are concerned, for example, when money is involved and given to particular religious organisations for their events, without it being at all clear what the criteria for that decision were and whether they will apply to other organisations, faith-based or not. questions also arise about how organisations signal to the commission their interest in participating in such dialogues and just what the criteria set by the commission are for the involvement of particular organisations. we have to avoid the ghettoising of certain faiths around certain issues, but ensure that we have a very inclusive dialogue across a range of questions. many of us would also be interested in knowing who decides the agenda for this consultation. there are many difficult political agendas around: for example, on how we achieve the millennium goals and gender equality. it would therefore be useful to know how the agendas are determined and who gets invited on what basis. i would echo what my colleague mr de rossa has said about the need for a public record in order to allay worries.
madam president, first of all i wish to point out that organised religions have only been around for some 2 000 years, and we are in danger of elevating them to a position that they should not have. of course there should be a dialogue, but it should be on the same the basis as for any other non-governmental organisation. we have to ensure absolutely the separation of religion and politics. religions have achieved a great deal on behalf of citizens but, equally, they have opposed advances. in my own country, the rights of women, lesbians and gay men have been opposed every single step of the way by organised religion. there was a mention of slavery by the previous speaker. indeed, when we were trying to end slavery in the united states, the religions there tried to prevent its abolition. therefore, we should have that dialogue: a dialogue where we tell them what we – the institutions – intend to do, where we listen to their arguments as to why we should modulate or change, but we must have the courage to act in advance of public opinion and in advance of those sectors within religions that would prevent any progress. when these meetings take place, the minutes, recommendations and list of attendees must be available for public dissemination. if they are not, i would point members to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which assures public access to documents held, received or produced by the institutions and the agencies set up by them.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i listened carefully to the various speeches. i would first like to recall briefly that a press release was published on the commission's website to cover this spring meeting. i would also like to point out that, in accordance with regulation 1049/2001 on access to documents, the commission can respond to any request for a list of participants. that's a practical first observation. you are right, the dialogue must be transparent and everything must be clear to all those who might have questions. parliament is very much insisting on the need for dialogue, provided, of course, that it is balanced and transparent. i think i can say that this is the intention of the president of the commission. there is no reason for this dialogue to be unbalanced in favour of any particular community. i can confirm that a specific meeting with non-religious representatives of civil society, and in particular representatives of the humanist movement, will take place this autumn. so there is a will to balance. i am personally quite convinced, not so much by certain words of mr combes, but by a politician whom i have read and liked a lot, aristide briand, who has indeed brought us a law on the separation of church and state, a law which, in my opinion, he has made to be adopted with great respect. i believe that in today's civil society it is necessary for the authorities, at both national and european level, to be able to listen to a civil society in which beliefs are expressed, albeit different, but respectful of each other. i can also say that the sectarian phenomenon must, of course, be fought with great determination. i would like to say this very simply, and i hope that this dialogue can be extended and that all the conditions you consider legitimate will be respected.
madam president, what the commissioner has said in relation to regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is incorrect, and i speak as the rapporteur on that regulation. not only can the list of attendance be requested, but also minutes, agendas, decisions taken and any other material accumulated or discussed. any documents that are requested can be refused only under article 4 – exceptions – and article 9 – sensitive documents. i should like to reassure the house that it is not only the list of attendance that can be accessed by parliament and members of the public.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 july 2004 the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the deployment and operation phases of the european satellite radio navigation programme. you will be debating this proposal in a few moments. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support of the galileo programme from the outset. i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky in particular for her very good report and for her very intelligent support of the galileo programme. we want to set up at european level the world's first civil satellite radio navigation system, a project that is part of the european union's growth strategy defined by the lisbon european council in 2000. this is the first major european industrial and space project. it is a technology whose development and applications are booming. moreover, thanks to the capacity developed under this programme, the european union is now in the forefront of taking advantage of what is being called the great technological revolution, after the computer and telecommunications revolution. the development phase of the programme is proceeding normally. the first experimental satellite is due to be launched in december 2005. the construction and launch of the first four satellites of the galileo constellation will follow. the current development phase will be followed by the deployment phase and then the operational phase. the system will be phased in between 2008 and 2010. the institutional pattern adopted for the deployment and operation phases differs significantly from that of the development phase. during these two phases, the construction and management of the system will be entrusted to a private concessionaire under the control of the authority, a community agency created by the council regulation of 12 july 2004 which will act as the contracting authority. the concession solution was found to be the most appropriate to ensure the success of the programme in a public-private partnership. the proposal before you is designed to ensure the financing of the community part of the galileo programme during both the deployment and the operational phases. it provides for a financial contribution from the european community of eur 1 billion for the period of the new financial perspective 2007-13. this amount will be paid to the supervisory authority for use in accordance with the provisions of the council regulation of 12 july 2004. the proposal also provided for a specific legal instrument to support the programme, which was consistent with the future european space programme and which was as responsive as possible to the need for sound financial management. a separate budget line should be created for the deployment and operation phases of the programme for three reasons. firstly, the programme is mature. it has taken on a dimension which goes far beyond the sectoral policies pursued by the commission. secondly, the size of the actions imposes obligations of transparency and budgetary rigor, as well as scrupulous monitoring. thirdly, the institutional scheme and the budgetary framework must be clear and consistent to the system operator, on whom the community will impose comparable transparency and consistency requirements. i would stress that the funding of the galileo programme by the community budget will be limited in time. the commercial revenues generated by the operation of the system will eventually have to ensure its financial balance. i would remind you that several third countries - china, israel, india, ukraine - have planned to participate in the programme. i would add that the commission will ensure that the future concession contract provides for the reimbursement of public financial contributions in the event that the profits received by the concessionaire eventually exceed a certain threshold. in conclusion, the proposal for a regulation which has been submitted to you meets the requirements of a proper implementation of the deployment and exploitation phases of the programme, of sound financial management and of the need for a major european project which has reached an advanced stage of maturity. that is what i wanted to say to you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. i hope very much that parliament, like mrs barsi-pataky, will give us all the support we need for this great project. it will undoubtedly bring the european union many technological successes and create many jobs through its many applications.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets.– madam president, i served on the committee on budgets for many years as the united kingdom conservative spokesman. i recently moved to the committee on industry, research and energy and i have also served for many years on the committee on transport and tourism. so this evening, although i have to apologise that mr lewandowski is unable to participate in the debate, i want to give this project our full backing. in the early years, we had reservations. we thought that the american system did not need a european alternative. however, the british and the conservative party have been brought round. i pay tribute to the rapporteur and the constructive attitude of the commissioner on this subject, which is extremely important because of the added value that europe is bringing to it. we have managed to achieve a great deal of progress to date and we need all 25 countries to pull together to achieve success in the future. i also admire the way that accountability is uppermost in this proposed regulation. parliament and the council need to be fully convinced at all stages that the proper steps are being taken and that accountability and transparency are the order of the day. i particularly welcome the involvement of the small and medium-sized enterprises, because they see this as a huge opportunity for them to increase their knowledge of technology in commercial concerns and to back up the very large operating body that will provide overall supervision. i also agree with the method by which they were appointed; it was slightly contentious at the time, but the results have been successful. i wish the project every success. i hope we will make sure that accountability is always the order of the day and that any financial guarantees that have to be given by the council or parliament are most carefully adhered to.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr csaba őry, on his excellent report and his commitment to the completion of this difficult dossier, which is the optical radiation part of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from physical agents. the commission continues to attach the greatest importance to all measures aimed at ensuring better protection of the health and safety of workers, as these are essential elements in terms of quality of life at work. the most recent scientific evidence indicates that overexposure to optical radiation, whether of natural or artificial origin, can have serious health consequences, particularly for workers exposed to it as a result of their work activities. since the adverse consequences of exposure to optical radiation are independent of the artificial or natural origin of the source, the proposal covers all cases of occupational exposure to optical radiation. however, the commission accepted the approach taken in the council's common position to introduce a differentiated treatment to reduce the risks from exposures to natural sources such as sunlight, or from artificial sources such as lasers or uv lamps. the proposal sets exposure limit values for artificial sources and provides for a series of preventive measures, including a risk assessment: prior assessment, with a view to eliminating or minimising risks. in addition, in order to avoid unnecessary burdens on undertakings, the proposal states that the evaluation may take account of data provided by manufacturers of optical radiation equipment where they are covered by a relevant community directive. as regards exposure from natural sources, the presence and intensity of which are not controlled by humans, the application of exposure limit values was not considered appropriate. however, in this case the directive stresses the importance of information, training of workers and a prior risk assessment taking into account simple protection measures adapted to the situation on the ground. mr president, i shall have the opportunity to make the commission's position on the amendments known shortly, but it is desirable that i leave the discussion to it. i would also point out that i am dealing with this matter because of the absence of mr vladimír špidla, who was visiting the eu-china summit. i am able to take the place of my colleague, and i do so all the more so since it is a question of working conditions, a subject on which i myself have had many opportunities to work. i thank parliament in advance for providing us with all the information and reflection it has at its disposal.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i thank mr őry for his excellent work as rapporteur. he worked very closely with all the shadow rapporteurs, improved an already pretty good common position and produced a good draft report for the committee on employment and social affairs. it is only a pity that that good work was put in jeopardy by the stance taken by his own group, the ppe-de, and a faction in the liberal group on one aspect of the proposal: the provisions relating to the occupational risks arising from exposure to natural radiation. sadly, we have come to expect totally misleading and sensational press releases from the right, misrepresenting important pieces of health and safety legislation. when we worked on the issue of industrial noise, we were accused of trying to ban bagpipe playing in scotland. our work on the risks of whole body vibration was evidently to stop farmers from driving tractors after only three or four hours, even at the height of the harvest. now our work on this proposal is presented as an attempt to force citizens to carry umbrellas. this is absolute nonsense. the commissioner himself said that the original proposal envisaged a far lighter-touch approach to natural radiation than artificial sources. however, this time i sense something more than an attempt to grab cheap tabloid headlines, something more ideologically driven. i believe that those sitting behind mr őry and trying to undermine his work think that, with the stalling of much of europe's social agenda, they have a chance to push for deregulation and the renationalisation of important elements of the social legal base. if that is so, then let me tell them that they should think again. we will do all we can to stop them in their tracks and continue to improve, and not undermine, worker protection. in reality, our amendments on natural radiation have nothing to do with the ridiculous stories fed to the media. we are trying to do three positive things. first, to make explicit what is already implicit in the proposal. we are not talking about expensive duties being imposed on employers. where the employer finds a risk associated with natural radiation, information will be provided to workers. in the vast majority of modern occupational settings there will be no risk. secondly, by taking the sentence from the council, granting member states a role in determining the criteria to apply to the risk assessment in the light of national circumstances, we are acknowledging the obvious fact that, as both speakers have already said, the risk from natural radiation is somewhat lower in newcastle than it is in naples. thirdly, we are trying to provide greater legal certainty for employers. although the right try to deny it, the 1999 framework directive clearly imposes a duty on employers to assess all occupational risks. the 1992 directive on construction sites certainly goes further and specifically mentions environmental considerations. we should use this proposal to introduce greater legal certainty. that is exactly what we are trying to do in our amendments, by seeking to highlight the provision of information to workers. we are talking about a very serious risk. according to cancer research uk, skin cancer is one of the most common cancers in the uk. cases of skin cancer there have more than doubled since the 1980s. the uk now has more cases of skin cancer than australia. more than 69 000 new cases are diagnosed in the uk each year and over 2 000 people die each year in the uk from skin cancer. that is not specific to the uk. in germany, skin cancer among agricultural workers has risen by between 15% and 20% over the last decade alone. please take a look at the statistics in your own countries. this is a global, not a national, phenomenon. so let us use the eu-wide legal base we have to provide greater protection for all our workers. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i speak on behalf of the whole of the alde group, contrary to what mr hughes was implying. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation on this directive. i now hope that all meps, including the socialists, will see sense and either completely remove natural radiation from this directive, or at least pass the compromise that we voted for in committee and leave it up to member states. it is absolutely ludicrous to keep it in. i thought it was a joke when i first read it. i did not believe that the council and the commission could actually be serious about this. it would bring the eu into further disrepute if we legislate against the sun in the workplace. apart from that, this is a reasonably sensible directive, to protect people like welders from artificial radiation, but we should not include natural radiation from the sun. as the text stands at present, employers would be required to do a risk assessment every day, bringing in technical and organisational measures to protect workers. what does that mean? keeping them in from the sun a lot of the time? providing protective equipment, such as sunglasses, hats, or sun tan cream, and making sure that they wear them? it is no business of the eu to tell workers that they cannot be bare-chested or wear shorts. they are adults. imagine the language if workers were told to cover up when they were trying to get a sun tan from their holiday. and how would you prove liability? if a worker gets skin cancer, was it in the workplace, was it on the beach, was it in the back garden? it would in my opinion be a legal nightmare. yes, everyone should be warned about the dangers of the sun, but that should not be up to employers. government campaigns should warn everybody. if we pass this directive and include natural radiation, this would be taking the 'nanny state' mentality too far. i sincerely hope that all meps will either vote to remove natural radiation from the text, or vote for the compromise in committee.
mr president, why do we in this house continue to bring ridicule on ourselves by promoting such egregious measures as this one? in germany the media have mocked it because of its effect on bavarian barmaids' bosoms. in britain the press have poked fun at it because it restricts bare-backed building workers. i accept that a brickie's cleavage is not a pretty sight, but we have no business in this house making rules about it. when will we start to treat european citizens like grown-ups, able to make their own decisions? how long will we continue to treat them like small children, seeking to regulate and control every detail of their lives? how long will we continue to pile cost, liability, uncertainty and vast bureaucratic burdens on employers, making european economies less profitable and less competitive? i have been approached by organisations ranging from the national farmers union to the federation of master builders, which are deeply worried about the impact on their businesses. sadly, i have not been approached by any bavarian barmaids, but my door is always open should they wish to see me. this is an unnecessary and damaging measure. the only people to benefit from it will be compensation lawyers. we should reject the natural radiation aspects of this proposal out of hand.
mr president, i echo the remarks of mr hughes: this measure has been used by the small-minded, anti-european factions within this house to whip up confusion rather than to legislate sensibly, as nobly demonstrated by mr helmer, who made a speech full of nonsense and half-truths, then left, presumably to sit in the midday sun somewhere. no serious person would question the desirability of protecting workers from skin cancer. in scotland, despite our northern latitude, this is a serious and pressing issue. the question for us is whether the inclusion of sunlight within this measure would achieve it. the inclusion of natural light renders, sadly, the sensible proposals within this package unworkable, legally difficult to enforce and practically difficult to manage. i am glad to hear the rapporteur mention subsidiarity. hopefully, if all else fails it will allow a greater degree of common sense to be brought through in the application of this measure. the scottish national party is concerned that these measures, while laudable in aim, will not achieve the desired result. rather, we fear that the inclusion of sunlight in this package will add to the burden upon farmers, fishermen, foresters, businesses in general and others, without necessarily achieving the desired health effects. we believe that there is a need to legislate in this area. we do not accept that this is the way to do it.
mr president, i am sorry that the commissioner himself cannot be with us today, but i understand he has to be in china. i hope the sun is shining upon him there and that he is being instructed to cover up well. the previous part-session, in july, was the first attended by the uk as presidency of the council. we were promised many things: the new presidency was going to simplify the burdens on business, reduce red tape and provide leadership to make the eu more relevant to the people. the whole house, including this side of the house, should support such an agenda if, indeed, it happens. this is the first part-session since then, the first chance for all of us to judge the uk presidency on whether it means what it says. today the judgement is already becoming clear, because what we have on the agenda is more red tape, not less: we have a directive that calls for businesses to record how much the sun is shining. the uk presidency is trying to downplay this whole directive, claiming that it is all very straightforward and that the fuss is far-fetched. if that were true, why have i and my colleagues been getting increasingly frantic messages from organisations and individual companies of all sizes, in such major industries as agriculture, horticulture, construction, tourism and hospitality? they have not taken their information from so-called 'misleading press releases' – despite the predictable spin from mr hughes and his socialist colleagues – but straight from the directive. they are not just imagining problems for the sake of it; they are detailing specific problems in the common position that the council simply did not foresee when it nodded it through. the presidency in particular should have very red faces now, though i suspect not from sunburn.our role in this house is clearly to help shape eu legislation that is appropriate and proportionate. in its current form, this proposal is neither. if the uk presidency will not give a lead, our political group will. we have tabled amendments to throw out the common position completely, to remove all references to natural sunlight and to get some sense back into this directive. we are glad to have support from many of the liberal democrats, as well as from other political groups. however, this whole house should give out the message loud and clear. people do not want politicians to protect them from sunlight; increasingly, people simply want to be protected from politicians.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish) mr president, i welcome the report by mrs jöns and thank her for her work. in particular i welcome the emphasis placed on social inclusion, gender mainstreaming, people with disabilities and the role of the ngo sector in this programme. i also want to throw my support behind calls for an increase in the financial aid proposed and for a co-financing rate of 90%, rather than 80%, in relation to the role of ngos and social partners. let us be clear: the current economic strategies are driving more and more people into poverty within the european union, and our hope is that progress can help play an important role in the fight against social exclusion. the strengthening of gender equality should be supported wholeheartedly by this parliament, especially those elements which emphasise actions promoting gender equality that aim to combat discrimination and access to employment, career development, pay and training, and that fight the causes of poverty and social exclusion. this is a real and immediate issue for women in particular. in ireland, for example, the gender pay gap has substantially increased for women and the gap between men's and women's pay in ireland is among the largest of any eu member state. irish women are paid 17% less for the same work as irish men and, according to a recent report by the central statistics office, one-parent families are three and a half times more likely to experience poverty. if we want to see fundamental change within society and bring in this fundamental change in mindsets and conditions, we must support this programme and this report. i will be voting for this. (the speaker spoke irish)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, employment and social solidarity go together. the greatest social benefit, the greatest solidarity, is for people to have jobs. however, fuller employment will not come about through bureaucratic plans and schemes such as lisbon, which the rapporteur and others seem to think will help and which is now discredited, surely: halfway through its time span and less than half implemented. employment is encouraged by removing restraints and scrapping regulations. i point out again in this house that those countries that have not adopted the euro have the lowest levels of unemployment. however, it goes deeper. in the committee on employment and social affairs in july, david blunkett, the united kingdom secretary of state for work and pensions, said that we must not work against member states, that different countries have different solutions and that defining best practice is the first step. therefore, we must observe what others do and learn from each other, taking and adapting from each other what suits best. we must not conjure up new projects with ever increasing budgets. the rapporteur rightly says that red tape must be cut through but is sceptical about the european union's ability to do so. likewise, david blunkett said that many regulations were being passed which were impossible to implement. just so: the first measure to be discarded is this well-meaning but artificial attempt to create social solidarity. i voted against it in committee and i ask this house to do the same.
mr president, i warmly support my good friend and colleague, our rapporteur, mrs jöns, in her work to strengthen this funding proposal. it underpins our european work on the critical issues of discrimination and social exclusion that continue to hold back so many people in our societies. if the lisbon strategy is to mean more than just words, parliament is right to expect a significant increase in funding for this area. if politicians in brussels are genuinely worried about disengagement and alienation, as reflected by the votes on the constitutional treaty and in other ways, it is right for us to insist that the commission should strengthen, not weaken, the role of both social partners and of non-governmental organisations in this programme. i strongly support combating all forms of discrimination. as many colleagues are aware, i have a specific interest in working with the disability movement. i would like to remind parliament and commission that this is the programme which provides the core funding to enable disabled people, and indeed other groups that are discriminated against, to meet and to represent themselves at european level. if we fail to allow this, we exclude the most disadvantaged people from our work in the european union. i remember very well the budget crisis back in 1998, when the funding for such ngos was called into question in a wholly unjustifiable manner. it was resolved at political level by the member states, on the clear understanding that the work of these organisations on combating discrimination is vital in pushing forward the eu agenda. let that be remembered today. i want to reiterate that it is important for these networks to be independent and capable of representing the concerns of their members. the commission too often sees them as agencies for promoting and implementing its work. no, they must represent the views and experiences of disadvantaged people themselves. i believe in gender mainstreaming, but it should apply to disabled people too, with disabled, not able-bodied, people representing them. our amendments, which provide for adaptations, accommodations and accessibility and include publicity, are absolutely crucial in ensuring that disabled people are involved. finally i want to express support for the small disability organisations for blind and people, or people with intellectual disabilities. they too have a right to meet at european level and we should not forget them and try and lump people together in large groups. there is room for all organisations, large and small.
mr president, i have long believed that the audiovisual sector has great potential for scotland and europe. i myself spent a day on work experience on a film set in glasgow during the summer. i would add my own congratulations to our rapporteur for a very sensible and ambitious report. this is not an area lacking in legislation; quite the reverse, the question for us is how effective that legislation is in this mobile digital internet age. i would, however, take some issue with paragraph 21 of the motion for a resolution. scotland has, of course, a specific cultural, national and, indeed, commercial potential and i believe that the scottish parliament should be responsible for broadcasting, although fortunately there is nothing in the eu rules to preclude that. i also warmly support paragraphs 10 and 11, calling for an extension of the media plus programme. this has demonstrated what a positive impact the eu can have. i hope the commission will rise to our challenge and be as ambitious as we are.
mr president, the phrase 'television without frontiers' seems innocuous and perhaps it is relevant to the television programme, jeux sans frontières. some might think it is clever to use early television images of pan-european friendship as a metaphor for eu cultural integration. actually, the concept contains a deeper truth, which supporters of this proposal miss entirely or are deliberately concealing. television is without frontiers. twenty years ago, communist regimes could stop human beings getting across the berlin wall, but they could not stop television signals being beamed into east german homes. today technology has moved on and people all over the planet can watch what they like, where they like. yet the eu presses ahead with this paranoid, illiberal plan, with its quotas of european programming, and we all know what chaos quotas can create. the fact is that, if viewers want to watch american or any other programmes day and night, then nothing can stop them, certainly not the eu – or is that the hidden reality? in the uk jeux sans frontières is called 'it's a knock-out'. europe's viewers, not the politicians, will deal the knock-out blow to this pipedream project, because ordinary people know that if the eu is the answer, then it must have been a stupid question.
in writing. i welcome these steps to regulate the international trade in raw tobacco. however i look forward to the day when this trade is eliminated entirely.
in writing. the british conservatives today abstained on this report. while we welcome long-overdue moves to end the eu's eur 1 billion-a-year tobacco regime, we feel that the reforms agreed in 2004 do not go far enough soon enough. we strongly condemn the fact that tobacco-growing member states were given the option of retaining up to 60% of the existing aid on tobacco as a coupled payment until 2010. most other cap sectors have been fully decoupled and we see no reason why such a glaring exception was made for tobacco, a product that kills hundreds of thousands of eu citizens each year.
in writing. the excessively complex rules which fishermen are expected to comply with, have become more and more burdensome to the industry, as well as enforcement agencies, as the common fisheries policy has evolved. in one instance recently, a scottish boat was wrongly accused of using illegal fishing gear because the enforcement agency wrongly interpreted current rules. i supported mr. casaca's report because in theory, the use of new technology has the potential to ease some of the burden of paperwork but the best course of action for scotland would be to scrap the cfp and return fisheries management to local control.
in writing. as there was no debate on this report, i would like to emphasise the importance of data on fishing activities. with dwindling fish stocks the collection of accurate data is critical if we are to have a sustainable common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. i welcome this report which is designed to ensure that we have legislation in place that covers mining waste. mining waste is currently covered by general waste directives, but some serious incidents involving quarrying and mine waste led to the council to ask for a specific directive on mining waste. the only controversial issue is whether a new category of waste for this directive - non inert, non-hazardous waste, for example, chalk and lime would be created. while this category does not exist in the landfill directive on balance i think there is a sensible case for this new category.
in writing. i welcome this report by karin jons, which stresses the continuing need to fund and support measures designed to end discrimination in employment opportunity, social protection and working conditions. in particular i support the rapporteur's intention to better recognise the role of ngos at local and national level in successfully implementing these aims. i hope that the commission will regularly seek the views of those most closely involved in plans to implement anti-discrimination measures, and ensure that co-financing levels should not be so high as to discourage local networks from participating.
in writing. i welcome progress which will make a substantial contribution to achieving the objectives of the social policy agenda under the lisbon strategy. in particular, this proposal contains much needed attempts to simplify and rationalise by combining specific action programmes. however, care must be taken that costs are actually saved, duplication avoided and more administrative clarity and transparency achieved. i also support the rapporteur's steps to strengthen parliament’s role in monitoring the programme and increase its influence on implementation through measures such as a regular exchange of views with parliament held by the commission and an interim report evaluating the results achieved and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of programme implementation.
in writing. the current dispute with china highlights a growing trend, which is making life difficult for our own textile and knitwear industries. i supported amendments which would require that labour standards at sites operated in non-eu countries be monitored, including at sites outsourced by eu companies. the ongoing drive towards low-cost imports should not be an excuse to continue utilising sub-standard production facilities with unacceptably poor working conditions and wages.
in writing. this is a timely report on the situation of the textile industry after the removal of export quotas and the outlook for its future. it is clear to me that there is no long term future for european textile producers hiding behind a wall of protection. the measures taken to limit chinese imports must be seen as temporary and used by the industry to restructure and move up-market. however, european textile manufactures deserve to operate on a level playing field and open access to our markets must be mirrored by similar access to third country markets. similarly if eu producers invest in new designs and materials they deserve the full protection of their intellectual property rights.
in writing. we should welcome the news today over the resolution to the eu/china trade dispute.
mr president, everyone acknowledges the role aid can play in improving development, and president barroso himself promised eur 300 million more for aid for trade at the g8 summit this year. as the budget spokesman for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i asked the commission how much we currently spend on aid for trade, and it took them two weeks to work it out, because it is currently spread over around 120 different budget lines. in fact, we spend around eur 700 million already. the trade committee believes that we need to bring more visibility to aid for trade, that we need to make it easier to mobilise aid for trade and that we need to send the right signal in advance of the wto ministerial conference to be held in hong kong in december that we take aid for trade seriously. we are therefore going to propose the creation of a new budget line called 'aid for trade'. a very modest proposal because, for 2006, we are not actually asking for any money, we are simply asking for a pm line and the creation of a legal base. therefore, in future years, if the political will is there, we will have the legal base to bring under one single heading the aid we already give for trade. this will be an important step forward in terms of being able to mobilise these funds in the future.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development.– madam president, the tsunami affected large numbers of people in indonesia, sri lanka, thailand and the maldives. the response of the european population, european governments, the european commission and the member states was overwhelming. in sri lanka alone, institutional and public commitments came to about eur 5.8 billion. in indonesia some eur 8 billion has been committed. however, promises and delivery, pledges and action are very different. i have just returned from sri lanka and indonesia. in indonesia i talked to mr kuntoro mangkusubroto, head of the indonesian reconstruction agency. he told me they cannot spend the money as quickly as we think they can. he thought he could spend it in four years, while the president of indonesia wants to spend it over a period of five years. in sri lanka, i regret to tell you that very little has happened. nothing much has changed. the government is blaming the international ngos and the ngos are blaming the government. i am the budget draftsman of the committee on development. we adopted that opinion yesterday in my committee. i tried to explain that, although the needs of the commission are paramount, i recognise that it has to make commitments, put money in the trust fund and then start spending those funds on whatever projects we have undertaken. the capacity of sri lanka and indonesia to absorb this huge amount of money transparently and properly is minimal. the sri lankans are still shifting paper around while people are still living in tents. nothing has changed in the last seven months, since 26 december 2004. it is a tragedy and a scandal. however, we need to understand that, no matter how generous we are in giving and in wanting to help the people most in need, absorptive capacity and the ability to act fast in times of crisis are limited. as we have seen in new orleans, even the most powerful nation in the world is unable to cope with tragedies of this kind. it has taught us that our humanitarian office, echo, has more expertise and is better prepared to deal with these emergencies than any other institution in the world. the one positive contribution we can make is to teach people what we have already learned on many occasions. one of the things we can do with the tsunami and in new orleans is to give advice and guidance.
member of the commission. i thank you for your kind words. if the final question is whether i am going to change my view, then the answer is 'no'. i stand by the opinion i have held until now.
putting aside the united kingdom's individual position, would you agree that, in its capacity as the presidency, it is making strenuous efforts to find consensus in this matter, by touring member states and discussing with them the different objectives? there is a wide range of views about future financing but, as i understand it, the united kingdom, as a presidency, is trying to be the honest broker and bring together these divergent views. do you accept that it is making genuine efforts in that regard?
vice-president of the commission. one part of the analysis of the problems we have entered into is that there is too much of what we call the blame game. the institutions are blaming each other. the commission will, of course, use the argument of member states not wanting to do this or that, or not implementing policies. the member states or their governments are keen to take credit for something that is going very well, but if something happens where they have to compromise, they will say it is the fault of brussels. parliament is also part of this blame game now and then. we have to create, first of all, a modern story of why we need european cooperation. when people have been asked in eurobarometer opinion polls, for example, most have said that it is a good idea to cooperate. they see the added value of working together to counter so many of the problems that one nation can no longer deal with alone. but we also have to address young people to get them on board. we have to have some kind of common message of why we need the european union. the peace argument is of course still valid but it is not enough. the young generation needs arguments about how we want to deal with today's problems and tomorrow's problems as well – the ones that they face and are affected by. we also have to ask for member state governments, of whatever political colour they might be, to be loyal to the project and to be able to explain the pros and the cons, the problems and the challenges of being involved in such cooperation. however, first and foremost, we must deliver results, so that people can see that this brings an added value to europe. we work together and we are able to solve some problems for citizens by working together in this european project.
vice-president of the commission. i can only say that i agree. leadership is definitely needed as well. european leaders have to speak out and advocate what we are doing and be able to defend it. i could not agree more.
i support what the commissioner has said on the information communication policy, which is laid out as a very clear and coherent attempt to communicate better with europe's citizens. i wonder whether she has had a chance to look at the preliminary draft budget to see what impact that might have on her ambitions? because, without joining in this blame game, it seems to me that the council will complain that citizens do not understand europe, but is it prepared to make the means available for the commission to run a proper information campaign?
the commission's vice-president of course, as you know, several provisions of the protocol to the europol convention of november 2003, which has now been ratified by 16 member states, provide for improved involvement of parliament in the work of europol: communication of the europol activity report and the joint supervisory authority, the five-year financial plan, consultation on any initiative of a member state or the commission concerning europol, possible appearance before parliament of the presidency of the council possibly assisted by the director of europol. the commission therefore urges the member states to ratify the protocol as soon as possible. europol's participation in support of the joint investigation teams is expressly provided for in the protocol to the europol convention of 28 november 2002, which has not entered into force. to date, it has yet to be ratified by five member states. this protocol can only lead to an effective development of europol's operational powers if the member states themselves have implemented the framework decision of 13 june 2002 on joint investigation teams. on this point, the commission shares parliament's view of the disappointing result of the transposition arrangements for the framework decision. as this is not a matter for the community, unfortunately - i can say this - the commission is not entitled to initiate infringement proceedings against member states which have not implemented the framework decision. nevertheless, europol has participated in several transnational investigations outside the strict framework of the joint investigation team and has sometimes coordinated some of them, such as the 13 june 2005 operation icebreaker in the field of child pornography on the internet, during which 153 searches took place simultaneously in 13 different countries. participation in this investigation has strengthened its position. finally, in its communication on the exercise of democratic control over europol 2002, the commission had advocated the idea of a joint committee of national and european parliamentarians to examine europol-related issues. this idea could be usefully revived. in this respect, the commission is quite willing to participate in such parliamentary meetings. as you may know, two half-days are planned in october in brussels between the european parliament and the national parliaments on the subject of parliamentary control over police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the programme has four sub-themes: the european arrest warrant, eurojust, europol and the exchange of sensitive data.
mr frattini, although you do not have the formal powers to take infringement proceedings, as you quite rightly stated, can you use your influence to determine a greater transparency between europol and the institutions? in a recent report on europol, all sides in this house felt that transparency was totally lacking. however, we felt that the work of europol was hugely valuable and that it is an effective organisation with a new director trying to invigorate the organisation. given the importance of the topics that it deals with, can you use your influence to increase the transparency arrangements, which will only make the organisation more effective?
vice-president of the commission. yes, i fully agree with you on that point. i will do all i can to put political pressure on member states to strengthen transparency and to try to make relations between europol and the european parliament and other european institutions more transparent.
in terms of accountability, has the commission sought a report from europol on its apparent failure in detecting and impeding the progress of three international terrorists who fled as fugitives from justice in colombia, before publicly appearing last month within the european union, in dublin? if the commissioner is not in a position to provide me with the information today, will he undertake to write to me on that subject?
madam president, on a point of order, mr frattini has been answering questions for well over 20 minutes. should we not move on to the third part of question time?
the best tax systems are those in which the rules are well understood, simple and unchanging. taxes that stay the same help businesses to plan for the future with confidence. yet we have had a continuous stream of directives and regulations on vat. while the current proposals purport to simplify, particularly for small businesses, the main drive has always been rather to harmonise - to prevent so-called 'harmful tax competition', to achieve a uniform minimum rate for vat, ending derogations such as the zero-rated items we have in the uk. ten new member states give harmonisation additional impetus. why do we need harmonised vat rates? to help the single market? but we shall never achieve a single vat rate and since there seems to be little effort to harmonise the much greater differences in rates of excise duty, one has to look for other motives. i suspect that the ultimate objective sought by the commission is to have vat centrally administered and collected, guaranteeing a continuing source of funds for the eu budget not subject to bickering between eu member states. we should be aware of this possibility and not allow it to occur.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, 20% of our citizens are under 19 years of age; in other words, 100 million of our fellow european citizens are children. that is who we are talking about today. we are talking about half the medicines we provide to help them through their young lives not being properly researched, tested or authorised. we have what i call 'the half-an-aspirin syndrome': you give a child half the dose you would give an adult, because you think it ought to have less than the full dose. that may do no harm, it may do no good or it may even harm the child, because it may not be correct for it to have the dose at all, or it should have more or less than that. therefore i very much welcome both the commission's proposal and the rapporteur's report. the key is how we provide incentives to research. that is what we want and what our children need. we have to maintain a balance between the need for more research and the need to keep costs under control. the rapporteur has mentioned the example of the united states. since the system was introduced there in the 1990s, over one hundred new children-specific medicines have come on stream. we want to catch up with that. the debate we have had, and perhaps are still having, centres on the patent extension. some wanted a variable number of months; some wanted a longer period, others a shorter period. the commission proposed six months; the council – or 22 member states in the council – proposed six months; the rapporteur proposed six months; the committee agreed six months. it must be said that six months is right: it is simple and is a single extension. i am also concerned that we avoid double extensions and double claims. therefore, the aim of my amendment to article 36 was to make clear that we should not have double rewards for the same paediatric formulation. we need to ensure that it is correctly worded. that is something that the council and the commission will now be able to look at. however, when i hear, on the one side, companies saying that it is going too far and, on the other side, generics saying that it is not going far enough, perhaps we have got it right. we welcome the mice. we do not often welcome mice into this chamber, but the mice – the fund for paediatric medicine research – is very much to be welcomed. the report as a whole and the commission's proposal are good and will help the two million children who have health problems now and could be helped through this measure in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, no civilised person could excuse the indiscriminate barbarity which claimed the lives of 52 innocent civilians in london on the morning of 7 july, a city which had only the previous day celebrated the plurality, diversity and tolerance which had won the admiration of the international olympic committee and helped award it the 2012 olympic games. following the terror attacks in istanbul and madrid, nobody can deny that terrorism today is a serious challenge for europe. my group welcomes the commitment of the uk presidency and of the commission to improve policies to strengthen security across the european union. we are concerned, however, that these policies should be measured, proportionate and value-driven. we do not agree with the president-in-office when he said in london that the human rights of the victims were more important than the human rights of the terrorists. human rights are indivisible; freedom and security are not alternatives: they go hand in hand, one enabling the other. as thomas paine warned: 'he who would make his own liberty secure must guard even his enemy from oppression; for if he violates this duty, he establishes a precedent that will reach to himself'. much as the public may dislike it, suspected terrorists have rights. they have the right to a fair trial. they have the right to be interrogated, not tortured, by the police. they have the right to legal counsel and to representation in a court of law. and, if convicted, they have the right to be imprisoned in a european jail. there should be no exception for third-country nationals. there is a worrying tendency in member states to deport people considered to be threatening public order, national security or the rule of law, to countries where they may face torture or worse. it is deeply troubling when the tools of justice and public order themselves violate the european charter of human rights and well-defined international standards. to suspend those values and invoke a form of summary justice would, in the words of the lawyer cherie booth 'cheapen our right to call ourselves a civilised society'. the language of the war on terror leads too easily to the justice of wyatt earp and 'high noon', a point illustrated by the tragic death of brazilian jean charles de menezes at the hands of the uk authorities on 22 july. governments have been all too eager to exploit the fear factor in this matter. in italy, stop-and-search powers have been given to the armed forces. in germany, police surveillance in public places has been stepped up. in france, cctv cameras cover the public transport system. any of these measures in themselves may be justifiable but, in a climate of fear without proper democratic oversight and control, they foster insecurity. no wonder that faith-hate crime has risen across the european union and many muslims feel they are being criminalised. it would be particularly ill fitting for those of us who were teenagers in democracies in the 1960s – sometimes called the 'freedom generation' – to deny our children the standards of justice for which our colleagues from central, eastern and parts of southern europe fought so bravely. liberals and democrats agree with the uk presidency that anti-terrorism measures need to be implemented fully and rapidly. why are 7 of 24 instruments considered by justice and home affairs ministers on 24 may still not implemented in all member states? why are six unratified eu conventions still occupying ministerial time, when framework decisions could be more easily implemented and enforced? why have europol and eurojust not been given the capacity to operate? why has the eu's antiterrorism coordinator not been allowed the cooperation he deserves from national capitals? the council sometimes laments parliament's objections to security measures that it wants to introduce. but the european parliament would feel far more comfortable in agreeing to urgent measures if it was satisfied that the council was operating in the normal framework of democracy. a framework decision on data protection to accompany data retention measures, for example, would overcome the understandable fears of many colleagues that rights are being eroded. a commitment to legislation in the first pillar, with transparent policy-making and guaranteed rights, would enhance the moral standing of europe's response to terror. a serious commitment to sharing criminal intelligence information – perhaps the biggest challenge – would be welcomed and supported by this house. the nub of our dilemma is that the state is the main protector of both our security and our liberty. if the european union is to provide security against supranational threats, it must guarantee liberty supranationally too. president-in-office, commissioner, if you are prepared to work with parliament in that kind of dialogue, you will have the full support of liberals and democrats in this serious issue of tackling terror. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, one of the things that i noticed in the presentation from council was that we were not only talking about terrorism but also organised crime. i think that is extremely important when we are looking at some of the measures which are before us. because, if what we are saying is that the activities of what we acknowledge is a handful of people really have the power to sway and transform civil liberties within the european union, then part of the battle that we always ascribe to terrorists has already been won. i think that is an extremely worrying factor. my group would thoroughly agree with what mr watson has said to the effect that human rights are universal. they are not divisible, they are not negotiable and they are not applicable only to certain groups. we know from our own experience in the united kingdom, when we were dealing with terrorism from the ira years ago, that we could often see that convictions took priority over evidence and over correct police procedure. that is something we need to be aware of and bear in mind. i am more than slightly concerned when i hear the minister talking about the need to re-evaluate the european convention on human rights. the debate in the united kingdom and elsewhere is already starting to refer to an 'inconvenient' article 3, which is the one that deals with inhumane and degrading treatment and which cannot be derogated from. in the united kingdom, we have already derogated from article 5. i agree that we need to build on the european convention, we do not need to dismantle it and we do not need to 'nuance' it so that it catches those that at the moment we are choosing not to support because, when we look at the history of certain of those terrorist groups, they have been supported in the past by certain of our governments. we also need to be wary of creating a feeling amongst people that everyone is a potential terrorist or criminal. we need a strong civil society, as commissioner frattini pointed out, one which is democratic, in which people feel they can participate and are not excluded on the basis of their race or religion. my group is concerned about the publication of the code of conduct for not-for-profit organisations and would be interested to know what the basis is for putting that within a context of terrorism and criminality. people involved in not-for-profit are often some of the most active and constructive citizens that we have. this feeling of suspicion is something which also feeds radicalisation and fundamentalism, which can be based on race as well as religion. we look forward to further moves dealing with race hatred and xenophobia within the european union. we would also be interested to see what the foreign policy link is going to be in this discussion on radicalisation. much of what we are hearing this morning is based on the concept of a benevolent state. we want to know where the safeguards are going to be, what the political oversight is going to be, how that is going to involve the european parliament and our national parliaments and what redress is available for those who find themselves caught up and on lists that they should never have been on in the first place. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, there is a long-established principle in the european union, established, in fact, by jean monnet himself, of the beneficial crisis: whenever something is going badly wrong, whenever national governments are concerned as to what to do, when the public are deeply fearful, then the answer, of course, is more integration and more central control within the european union. i have been watching this debate ever since the appalling attacks in new york four years ago, and that is what people in the european union have tried to do at every attempt. it is perfectly clear that is what mr clarke and the uk presidency intend to do. of course, i understand clearly the argument that telephone communication information can help us to track down people. but mr clarke said that we should share this information provided that there was a clear legal basis upon which to operate. what clear legal basis is there inside this european union? there are no rules in the european union; it does as it wishes. it would be a terrible mistake to entrust this organisation with that amount of information. we should be moving forward together by cooperating, but of course that is not the approach, is it? no, we cannot have interpol; we cannot have normal extradition treaties between member states! we have to have europol; we have to have the fatally flawed european arrest warrant. at every stage, cooperation between nation states goes out of the window and central control from the european union comes in. i was flabbergasted to hear you say, mr clarke, that this is not a sterile debate about principles. i would have thought that at this, of all times, we ought to take a step back and have a real think about good principles. in the case of the united kingdom, is it worth us losing the presumption of innocence before guilt? is it worth us losing our right to trial by jury? is it worth us losing habeas corpus, our basic protection against the police state? is it worth us losing all of these things in the name of the war on terror and in the name of pushing yet more of our law-making ability towards the european union? i would say that it is not, and, in practical terms, none of what you are proposing will work – remember that the madrid bombers and the new york bombers all had valid i.d. i am sorry, mr schulz, but there is no such thing as a 'european identity'. we should be dealing with this at a nation state level and cooperating together, rather than thinking that the european union can solve any of this. it will not.
mr president, i would like to thank the united kingdom presidency for coming here to make this important statement. terrorists constantly seek to undermine our way of life, believing that we are weak and lack the strength to defend our democratic values, and we must always prove them wrong. but it is vital that we prove the terrorists wrong by our actions, not just our words. in this respect, is there not a salutary lesson to those of us who debate and legislate here? we need to review the delicate balance of civil rights, – and i agree with that – but it is very important that those who go about their normal lives – their normal, innocent and lawful lives – should be protected. i deprecate the sanctimonious twaddle of mr watson, representing the liberals. of course each terrorist deserves justice; justice has to determine innocence and guilt. but i believe that we have to understand that the nature of justice, as it is meted out to terrorists, and the standard of justice that is available to protect the innocent, must be of a different level. i hope he understands that; hopefully, this house believes that – i and my colleagues certainly do. on the actions that we need to take, it is of paramount importance that the law enforcement authorities be given the tools necessary to defend us, without being hamstrung by too much bureaucracy. flexibility and adaptability are vital in the face of mutating threats. the terror threat is not new, nor does it recur in the same way each time. over the last three decades, we have seen black september, the ira, the red brigades, eta, bader meinhof, animal liberationists, bombs on the paris metro, american embassy bombings in africa, then the attacks in new york and washington in 2001, madrid in march 2004 and, of course, in london in july this year. those are just some of them, there are others. we have seen some successes, as targeted measures against some of these organisations have brought results. only recently, several members of eta were arrested on the basis of a joint operation between french and spanish authorities. when i hear remarks like those from ukip, it worries me. yes, some of us argue against harmonisation, but we also argue for cooperation between law enforcement authorities. without that, in an international setting, we cannot detain some of the worst criminal elements that go around the world. i was proud to be the rapporteur for this house on joint investigation teams, as i know the presidency-in-office is aware, in 2001. they are a good example of targeted, effective, cooperative effort across the eu, without excessive bureaucracy, and we must be prepared to develop this level of cooperation, particularly now that we have the advantages of technology. president-in-office, you mentioned the issue of data retention. since the advent of dna testing and mobile communications of a world nature, we have available to us tools for good and for bad. they can be used by criminals as well as to the advantage of a great number of people who want to pursue their business and private interests. we must make sure that where criminality is involved, we use the new technologies to the greatest advantage. one of my last jobs in the home office in the 1990s was to set up the criminal cases review commission. prior to that, i and colleagues had the onerous task of determining whether a case should be referred back to the high court because of an alleged miscarriage of justice. it was an onerous task, but one which i was prepared to undertake whilst i had the powers to do it. i did refer cases back where i believed people might be innocent, where new technology – dna particularly – was coming in to give extra evidence. we should always remember that in the modern circumstances criminality does not stand still either. we may have the technology now, and we must use it because if we do not use it, with the proper safeguards, then the criminal element will be ahead of us in that game, as they have been ahead of us in violence, in their lack of respect for democracy and in actions which are completely abhorrent and unacceptable – or should be – to all of us in this house. thank you for coming, president-in-office. we will support you. (applause)
mr president, the consequence of adopting a shoot-to-kill policy in response to the terrorist attacks in london is that the uk is now directly responsible for the killing of an innocent man based solely upon his appearance. he is, of course, a victim, but there is another casualty and that is the state of human rights and civil liberties within the eu. certain eu governments are targeting individuals through stop-and-search procedures based entirely upon racial profiling. however, if the security services openly state that they are targeting young, ethnic-minority men, the rest of society may also begin to view those who fit this profile with suspicion. intercommunity relations will be devastated. our response to the terrorist threat must be intelligence led and, therefore, requires the contribution of the very communities that these policies are pushing to the fringes of society. only through a healthy, constructive dialogue can we root out and tackle anger and hatred. the protection of the human rights of eu citizens who just happen to fit a particular description should not be mutually exclusive from the tracking of the perpetrators and prevention of these terrorist attacks. public security is of paramount concern, but the presidency must acknowledge that undue restrictions on the liberty of our citizens simply fulfil the ultimate goal of these extremists. if we do not avoid extremist responses, we may feed the very beast we seek to destroy. today, europe has an opportunity to respond to extremist forces within our borders in an intelligent, strong, liberal manner, considering our citizens as equal, unless and until any one of them actually takes actions which threaten the security of our society. then our response must be united, relentless and firm, but always proportionate and based upon the rule of law. let us not allow our reactions to deliver that which the terrorists' actions can never achieve. i hear much talk of the targeting of mosques. i am a european muslim. i received my religious teaching in that very same mosque system. it taught me to be a good, contributing citizen who is proud to be european and british. please do not confine millions like me to a second-class citizenship simply because of our appearance and by ignoring our contribution. in conclusion, i repeat, president-in-office, let us not allow our reactions to deliver to the terrorists that which their actions can never seek to achieve.
mr president, mr president-in-office, i would like to add my welcome to you and my recognition of the enormously difficult challenges you face. we support your emphasis on the need for implementation of effective practical measures and better international collaboration, but i have a cautionary word: i feel sure there are some useful contributions that the eu can make in the fight against terrorism, but it has a nasty habit of merely seeking to extend its own powers on the back of a crisis and not necessarily doing anything of real practical value. i trust your antennae are sensitive to this tendency. i am the last to imagine that terrorism will be defeated merely by more intensive security measures. it has to be fought by every means, politically, diplomatically, financially, through the engagement of the communities from which terrorists draw their support, through sensible media coverage and through the education of public opinion. to date, we have not been very good at any of these. but before involving the european union, mr president-in-office, let us put our own house in order. we have constituents from east anglia, from cambridgeshire, in the parliament here today and, like me, they wonder when the government is going to appoint a minister for homeland security. and it might not be a bad idea if we were to secure the borders more effectively in the united kingdom. we are not hamstrung by compliance with the schengen agreement, yet we have no idea who enters or leaves our country and at least half a million illegal immigrants should not be there in the first place. we needed the pakistan authorities to tell us that the london suicide bombers had been to pakistan and probably on to afghanistan, where they underwent terrorist indoctrination and training. we know that the protections of our free society have consistently been abused by extremists who live in britain while supporting, financing and recruiting for a host of well-known terrorist organisations. no wonder london is widely dubbed 'londonistan'. uk-based organisations which support terrorism in britain or abroad must be closed down. may i just say how appalled i was at the view expressed by mr watson, the liberal leader, that terrorists have the same human rights as their victims. mr president-in-office, you have a lot to do. you have our support for robust, effective and proportionate measures.
mr president, i welcome the statements from the president-in-office of the council and from the commissioner. however, i want to address my words to the members of this house. after 11 september, the bombings in madrid, london and turkey are a wake-up call. we have heard the council and the commission being urged to act. of course they have to act, but so does the european parliament. terrorists and organised criminals use modern technology while we, in this house, argue and debate whether our police and intelligence services should have access to the same tools and the same technology. we argue in defence of the right of privacy whilst our citizens' lives are being physically damaged, undermined and sometimes terminated. ordinary men and women look to us to make their lives and their communities safer. yes, we must achieve a balance on privacy, on the retention of data and the use of data, but not to the point where we hand the terrorists and criminals an advantage that undermines our own way of life and gives them the opportunity to commit further atrocities. in this house we must end the interinstitutional argument and act collectively with the commission and the council to achieve agreement, with checks and balances on data retention, the use of biometrics, passenger name records, schengen information system ii, vis, police and intelligence cooperation. balance is essential. but remember this: terrorists have no respect for democracy and even less respect for human rights, except their own. political extremists will exploit the vacuum we create by our inaction and our prolonged deliberations, undertaken comfortably within our secure environments. our citizens fear that we have lost touch with reality and do not understand their fears, their needs, their lives. extremists will and do use the explosive cocktail of terrorism, immigration and asylum and the fear of the stranger to pursue their own agenda, which will diminish the rights of the vulnerable. we must be practical and sensible in our approach, but we must act. freedom of movement across the european union is seen as the biggest single benefit of being a member of the eu. that new right has been acquired because we have ceded another right. we have consented to the fact that information can be collected, retained and used on us. had we not ceded that right of privacy, we would not have freedom of movement across the european union.
mr president, when will parliament's bureau and its presidency get a grip on the shambolic procedures that we use when it comes to voting? we were told that we would vote at 12 noon. it has now gone 12.30 p.m. how can we expect people outside to take us seriously if we cannot organise ourselves properly in here? the presidency must do something. (applause)
as you know, sir robert, i have every sympathy with your position. i will certainly convey that to the conference of presidents, but the list of speakers is put forward by the groups. we endorsed the agenda on monday, but i take your point and we will try to improve in future.
that point is noted. there will be a meeting of the maghreb delegation this afternoon at 3 p.m.
the next iten is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
it fell because amendments 23 and 31 were adopted.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. i welcome the immediate response from the eu to the tsunami disaster. the goodwill generated by this however, could be lost if projects on the ground are not sustained. the commission must maintain a careful focus on helping the victims of the tsunami by not only spending money, but spending it effectively.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have abstained on this report regarding the surplus in 2004. conservatives believe that the eu budget must deliver value for money for the eu taxpayer. we therefore feel that, in this instance, we are not prepared to criticise the commission for this underspend.
in writing. though very supportive of relevant and appropriate health and safety provisions pertaining to employees, i cannot endorse the inclusion of natural sources of optical radiation within this directive. employers already have a duty to assess the risk to health and safety and to introduce appropriate control measures as specified in the framework directive (89/391/eec). thus exposure to the sun is a known risk, for example to the agriculture and building industries, and is already sufficiently catered for. the inclusion of natural sun radiation in the new directive will disproportionately affect small agricultural and construction businesses and add unnecessary administrative costs, particularly in the northern regions of europe. the wildly varying climates in the various eu member states are enough to make it clear that european legislation on natural optical radiation is not appropriate. whilst provisions specific to exposure to artificial radiation are appropriate, the inclusion of natural sunlight radiation caused me to vote against this directive as excessive and burdensome in its ambit and impact. the foolishness of this proposal suggests that the people of europe are more in need of protection from brussels than from the sun!
in writing. i voted for the various amendments which deleted natural sources of optical radiation from the scope of this directive. the misguided attempt to include sunlight was a gift to the ultra sceptics, who enjoyed putting about such stories as "brussels seeks ban on sunlight". of course our constituents should be aware of the health risks of over-exposure to the sun, but eu-wide regulation from brussels is not the best solution, nor is burdening employers with yet another obligation. the responsibility for informing our peoples about the effects of sun on their skin should rest firmly with the member states and devolved governments. there is after all a marked difference in the climate between scotland and greece for example and therefore health advice would be best tailored to suit local circumstances.
in writing. a lot of hot air has been generated over this directive on the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents. owing to the splitting of the proposal, the common position is concerned only with the specific minimum requirements for the protection of workers from risks to their health and safety arising or likely to arise from exposure to optical radiation. this has led some to try and caricature this as the protection from sunlight directive. in my view despite attempts to ridicule the proposal it does strike a good balance between protectionism and over-regulation.
in writing. as labour spokesperson on employment and social affairs, i voted for this piece of legislation today because i believe it will protect workers across europe in a key health and safety area currently not covered fully in national legislation of member states and will be protection for workers in my constituency of london. some meps have tried to remove the issue of natural 'sunlight' from the report. as a labour mep, i backed the the uk government and the council line to back the common position as we believe it is a good balance between protectionism and over regulation.
in writing. on behalf of the british conservative delegation of the epp-ed group, i would confirm that we voted against those amendment references to the treaty establishing a constitution for europe because following the referenda outcomes in france and the netherlands they no longer have the relevance they may have had when drafted. we support the overall direction of the report and accordingly have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. it is vital that the protection of young people from harmful content on the internet as in broadcasting keeps up with technological developments. this report makes it clear that self-regulation is good but insufficient protection for children against harmful content. the report calls for a variety of measures to improve protection including automatic filter systems for internet access for children and for the commission to organise an information campaign for all citizens on safer use of the internet and a europe-wide toll free helpline with information on filters. this issue is extremely complex but i hope in the light of the adoption of this report the institutions can cooperate to find continuing effective ways to protect our young people.
in writing. the intention of this proposed regulation is laudable. it makes sense to improve the treatment of children by increasing the research, development and approval of medicines which are suited to the metabolism of the child. i regret that amendments tabled by my group were not adopted. these would have made it a requirement of the approval mechanism to consider whether significant therapeutic benefit over existing treatments had been achieved.
in writing. i warmly welcome this proposal. a decade or more after the usa, the eu is at last set to adopt legislation requiring the testing of pharmaceutical products for children as part of their approval process. these new rules should ensure that more drugs are developed for children and that they are administered in safe and effective dosages. in return for pharmaceutical companies carrying out mandatory clinical trials for drugs intended for use in children they will be given financial compensation. the financial compensation proposed by the commission involves granting companies an extra six months supplementary protection certificate, that is, a form of extended patent. this must be monitored to ensure that it does not lead to excessive profits.
in writing. labour meps support the principle of awarding incentives to pharmaceutical companies in order to stimulate the necessary research and development. we therefore support the concept of extending the spc, but question the commission proposal for an automatic six-month extension. we feel a variable length spc extension would have been better and fairer, because the amount of incentive would better have reflected the costs of research. of the options on the table, we therefore supported the three- plus three-month extension. we did not, however, support the option of a fixed four- or five- month spc extension, because this risks being unfair to smaller companies.
in writing. these new rules are long overdue. fifty per cent of medicines used to treat children in europe have not been tested and are not authorised. every parent wants to have the peace of mind of knowing that a medicine used on their son or daughter is safe. these new rules would go some way towards guaranteeing this safety, which at present is not clearly established.
in writing. i know from direct personal experience that the burden placed upon businesses, especially smes, by the obligation to administer vat is very significant, and therefore i support moves such as this to simplify the process. i also strongly believe that there should remain with member states a reasonable degree of flexibility, such as in setting turnover thresholds and applying reduced or zero rates of vat.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1798/2003 as regards the introduction of administrative cooperation arrangements in the context of the one-stop scheme and the refund procedure for vat. the aim of simplifying vat is an admirable one. i support the various amendments striving to establish better cooperation between taxable persons and tax administrations, also those that help to improve cooperation between member states’ tax authorities. the rapporteur suggests to introduce a minimum limit of eur 50.000 for exemption from vat. the suggestion concerns only first 3 years of the activity of a newly established sme. this new lower bound of exemption contributes to sme's brisker economic performance, generating more employment across the eu, further realising the lisbon objectives.
in writing. the eplp does not accept or agree that the thresholds for calculation of vat are best dealt with at eu level. it is up to member states to promote the most appropriate calculations, especially for their micro-companies. this allows member states to fulfil their promises vis-à-vis the lisbon agenda, in making appropriate allowances for such businesses, and to set an entrepreneurially sensitive approach.
mr president, today is a happy day for egypt because, for the first time in a generation, the egyptian people have an opportunity to vote for a president and have a choice in that vote. i and some colleagues here in the chamber who sought the release of one of the presidential candidates, dr ayman noor, on 12 march will be particularly interested in the outcome, since it was our intention to visit him in prison, where he had been put by the egyptian authorities, having declared his opposition to president mubarak. it was in cairo that the united states secretary of state made an important statement on 22 june at the american university, where she declared that, in the middle east, democracy was better than stability, overturning – as she put it – 60 years of american policy. there has been a degree of cynicism about this change of approach, but nevertheless it represents some sort of step forward in the relations between the united states and the middle east. i believe that the european union should try and reflect this shift in policy; not that democracy is better than stability, but that democracy and human rights are better than ‘business as usual’. one of the things that singles out the european union’s approach to the middle east is this conjunction of democracy and human rights. obviously, i regret that the commission is rather less than ambitious in its programmes of democratisation, and we hope to see that improve in the coming months. in addition, the european parliament has a role to play, through the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, in particular. i believe that the parliamentary dimension of the mediterranean is going to be of increasing importance. the next elections in egypt will be the parliamentary elections and i hope that this house will agree that we should send a mission to egypt for those elections, whether or not we are invited.
mr president, as we witness the israeli disengagement from gaza, completed in one-third of the time planned, with no casualties and with no wave of terror as predicted by some, i reflect on what the critics said when that disengagement was first announced. then they protested. today, with all the qualifications, they celebrated. despite all the difficulties, hope succeeded over cynicism. in the wake of these developments, it is the role of the european union and international community to keep open this moment of hope. i welcome the continuing commission commitment, repeated this afternoon by our colleague mr verheugen, to economic reconstruction in the palestinian territories. gaza represents one of the most scarred and desolate corners of the world. the world bank says that nearly half of the palestinians there live below the poverty line. freedom from fear must be matched by the freedom to eat and to work. that is why i welcome the president-in-office's commitment this afternoon to work with israel and the other parties on free movement, to facilitate the movement of 20 000 gaza residents who work in israel and to lift the blockages of borders of land, sea and air. gaza cannot be economically viable otherwise. as a member of parliament's electoral observer commission, i agree with colleagues that we have a crucial role to play to ensure that the commitments made by the palestinian authority at the london conference on security, democratic reform and good governance are realised. however, the critics will continue to remind us that more new settlements have been built this year on the west bank than were evacuated in the last month, that 8 000 settlers are left but more than 240 000 still remain. the differences on the 1967 borders and on the status of jerusalem are as deeply entrenched today as is that much-disputed security wall. we cannot avoid these uncomfortable truths. the only hope remains the roadmap, endorsed by the quartet, by this european union. it is our responsibility to keep that hope and opportunity alive.
mr president, i welcome the success of the unilateral withdrawal from gaza and from the four isolated settlements in the northern west bank and welcome mr sharon's public assurances that these moves form the first stages of the united states-led roadmap to a two-state solution. the withdrawal has also been welcomed by the muslim world as a first phase of a process. the significance of this development was displayed last week by the first public talks between the foreign ministers of israel and pakistan. the european council, under the presidency of the united kingdom, must maximise its special relationship with the us to make joint efforts to add to the existing ties with other muslim countries, such as egypt, jordan and turkey, to name but a few. such political progress will have tremendous significance, not just as regards relations between these two states, but as a stepping stone towards a normalisation of relations between israel and the whole of the muslim and arab world. indeed, it will help in our very own action plan to face head-on the issue of terrorism within our own borders. however, worrying messages continue to come out of israel. as recently as july, for example, the knesset approved amendment 5 to the civil wrongs law. the amendment prohibits palestinians from suing for damages for injuries sustained as a result of illegal israeli gunfire; this is in clear violation of basic human rights. this week, there is a rare opportunity to begin rectifying these injustices. all this exacerbates israel's persistent defiance of the advisory opinion of the international court of justice of 9 july, which heavily criticised the illegal separation wall in eastern jerusalem. incidentally, mention of the wall was noticeable by its absence from the uk presidency's prospects for the eu in 2005. may i remind the council that the icj's opinion articulates obligations incumbent on the whole of the international community to see that any impediment resulting from the construction of the wall to the exercise by the palestinian people of its right to self-determination is brought to an end. peace cannot be achieved without justice and it is justice for the individual – the men, women and children living this conflict on a daily basis – which is the key to lasting peace. it is these individuals' right to self-determination which must be secured. the eu, as israel's principal trading partner, is in a unique position to utilise the human rights clause in the eu-israel association agreement and bring pressure to bear on the israeli government to comply, specifically with the icj opinion, and more generally to ensure that disengagement is followed by credible political process where outstanding claims for justice under international humanitarian law are resolved. in conclusion, if the european council, under the leadership of the uk presidency, is to play a significant and constructive role in the peace process, it must ensure that concerns of economic and political expediency are not permitted to override the fundamental rights of a people that has suffered enough.
mr president, the middle east, as ever, remains of great concern. but there are also some grounds for optimism, as we witness the first multi-candidate presidential election in egypt today. the ongoing terrorist campaign in iraq, of course, still poses a serious threat to stability in the region. iraq is about to have its first democratic constitution, which, although lacking support from the sunni community, as least has on board the shias and the kurds, has avoided an islamic theocracy, and kept women involved in the process. october may see a rejection of the constitution by the sunnis, but they will then have to get involved in the resulting parliamentary elections and the next constitutional draft, or face a fragmentation of iraq, in which they will eventually lose out. syria must play a more responsible role in apprehending terrorists crossing from its territory into iraq. iran must stay out of iraqi affairs. having ended its nine-month freeze on uranium enrichment, it is now on a collision path with the united states and the eu, a case likely to end in the united nations security council, where i hope russia and china will also support tough, non-proliferation measures or sanctions, if need be. israel is to be commended for its peaceful withdrawal from gaza, which must now rapidly fall under the control of the palestinian authority, although the assassination of moussa arafat augurs badly. it is understandable that border controls with egypt will require israeli and international monitoring for security reasons for some time to come. let us now hope that all the parties can come together to get the roadmap for peace back on the road. the palestinian parliamentary elections in january will, of course, be telling. lebanon, following syria's withdrawal, seems to be settling after its elections and arrests have now been made in connection with the assassination of rafik hariri, apparently confirming the suspicion of the involvement of the pro-syrian security forces. we all wish the united nations investigator, mr detlev mehlis, every success in bringing those guilty to justice.
mr president, i will be no exception in this debate in offering my own congratulations to our rapporteur and indeed the shadow rapporteurs. they have all worked very hard to produce this excellent piece of work. i rise briefly to offer you some scottish experience, particularly in relation to paragraph 36 on the need for eco-labelling in sustainable tourism. in scotland we have been operating such a scheme for some years now. the green tourism business scheme is operated on behalf of visit scotland by a commercial – though not-for-profit – company. it promotes sustainability, provides practical advice to businesses and provides a level playing field, a certification to ensure consistent quality among its 500 member businesses, all of which are good-quality tourist attractions. i believe it is a model that would work very well when rolled out to other countries across europe. i believe it has much to commend it. a tourist industry focused on sustainability will focus automatically on quality, which is ultimately what the consumer in this modern age demands. in scotland we have had some success in this, although we also have some lessons to learn from it. this report provides a framework for the sharing of best practice and it has our full support.
president-in-office of the council. it is a pleasure to be here once again to answer on behalf of the council. i shall await the judgement members of this house on whether it is a pleasure for them. in response to mr karim's question, a dynamic service sector is critical for the prosperity for any modern economy. no country, developed or developing, can prosper without one. it is therefore vital that we strive for an ambitious deal on services within the doha development agenda negotiations. the european union's revised services offer, tabled in geneva in early june, contains a significant number of new commitments, including the 'mode 4' commitments which allow people to travel to the european union to provide services for a short time. under the terms of these commitments, overseas companies, with a contract to provide services in 21 important designated sectors, will be able to send skilled employees to the european union to provide these services for up to six months at a time. as mr karim's question highlights, the contractual service suppliers in these cases must be skilled persons who enter the european union for the purpose of providing a service associated with a bona fide services contract in certain defined economic areas. 'skilled' means they possess a university degree or its equivalent and have the necessary professional qualifications to practise in the european union. they must also have at least three years' professional experience, or six years for independent professionals. in all such cases, european union and national working conditions, minimum wage requirements and collective wage agreements will apply. european union member states will also continue to be able to refuse entry to persons that pose a security threat or are considered to be at risk of abusing the terms of their entry.
the minister can rest assured that this parliament is equally as pleased as he is that he is here again today. will the council do anything to promote well-ordered international labour migration and, in turn, encourage eu member states to set up mechanisms and provide incentives so that the expertise and experience gained by the service providers from the developing countries and ldcs can be applied in developing countries with under-serviced regions?
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for the gracious words of mr karim, the questioner, and i hope his faith in my performance will be vindicated in the minutes to come. on the more general question that he raises, as we meet today in this parliament, the european union summit with india is taking place. the indian subcontinent is one place where skilled migrant labour is already proving to be of mutual benefit. i have had the opportunity to travel to bangalore and meet many of the service providers who are benefiting from the present proposals. i heard directly from the indians that they considered there was genuine mutual benefit in having their employees working for a period either in the european union or in north america. in silicon valley, for example, highly-skilled software engineers educated either in the united states or in india were able to gain experience in the united states and then either stay and continue to develop commercial contacts between the united states and india or return to india and establish businesses, which in turn do business with developed countries such as the united states. so i can assure you this is a far wider issue than simply the answer i provided on mode 4. it is a matter about which there is much discussion, not least on the close commercial ties that can be established between less-developed countries and the european union. i am optimistic that there can be genuine mutual benefit both for the countries providing the workers and for the european union, which benefits from their skills and expertise.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for your guidance, mr president. i certainly would not be as contentious in my appearance in parliament today to suggest that there should be a single language for the european union. in many ways our diversity has proved to be our strength in recent years. on the important point that the questioner raised in relation to security, of course there has to be concern given to whether we have specific strategic interests. that extends beyond simply the question of labour and individual workers, to cover broader questions. before appearing in parliament today, i read of the concerns over cyber-spying, which is now regrettably a feature of the modern world in which we live. it is essential, not just in our internal discussions but also in taking a broader view of this issue, to have an important and necessary regard for the security questions that the member raised.
president-in-office, to give effect to your mode 4 proposals, which i welcome, would the council consider encouraging the commission to create a database for the whole of the european union that companies and countries from outside the eu could access, so they could identify potential skills shortfalls and opportunities to provide services? this would extend the benefits from such access to include poorer developing countries, as well as countries that already have good intelligence about what is going on in the european union.
deputising for the author.– that is a staggering reply, because it did not answer the question at all. we all know it is going to be introduced and we all know the council and parliament will discuss it, so you have told us absolutely nothing. what you were actually asked, if you will read the question please, is whether the government supports an eu regime or, as suggested by one of your government ministers in the house of lords last year, the 25 national regimes. which is it? mr blair, the british prime minister, told parliament when he introduced the british presidency, 'i am a passionate pro-european'. he did not say another word back in the united kingdom about it. is this a case of being two-faced, saying one thing here and nothing back home? tell us the truth!
that was not a bad answer! i can vouch for some satisfaction with that. does the presidency-in-office accept that the british government, in some four months' time, will be coming back, trying to point to achievements during its period of holding the presidency of the european union? does the minister accept that to be able to look at an example of having spread openness and transparency and having enhanced the ability of national parliaments to hold ministers to account would be quite a significant achievement?
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for this supplementary question. the acknowledgement of the sensitivity of this issue is a helpful one. the question alluded to the fact that there may be division within the members of the council as regards how far and how quickly we are able to proceed. therefore, it is appropriate that, as the presidency, we recognise the case and the strength of the case that was put so volubly in the times at the beginning of this week, but seek to work collaboratively at this stage, rather than making unilateral declarations. we are cognizant of our responsibilities and it would be to the disadvantage of everyone if division was to become the hallmark of this discussion, if there is an opportunity for moving forward together.
in this question on openness and transparency i should like to thank the president-in-office for his answer. however, there is also another question, about strasbourg itself. we are the only parliament in the world that has no say over where it sits. can the president-in-office comment on whether the council will deliberate whether we can have our meetings solely in brussels and not have to come to strasbourg?
president-in-office of the council. let me seek to complete the story i began in my initial answer and hopefully address the points that the member raised. in june the council took note of this new element – that is, the task force – with satisfaction and encouraged croatia to continue with its efforts in that direction. indeed, the council committed itself to continuing its examination of this dossier in july and, under the united kingdom presidency, the council therefore considered this issue at its meeting on 18 july, following the task force meeting a week earlier. at the gymnich just this week, british foreign secretary jack straw made a commitment to seeking a further report from the chief prosecutor at the international criminal tribunal. it will be in light of that report that the task force will meet again in september. i cannot at this stage anticipate the conclusions of the task force. the council will, however, then discuss the matter further in light of the task force's conclusions.
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect to the questioner, i find there is a curious connection between the first part and second part of his question, in the sense that i can assure him that there is an honest endeavour on the part of the council to uphold the rules and that is exactly what we are seeking to do in the case of croatia. although i recognise that opinion in this parliament is divided on the issue of croatian accession, there can surely be few of us who would deny that upholding the international rule of law is one of the tenets of the european union. in that regard it is important that croatia is recognised to have upheld international law and its clear obligations to the international criminal tribunal under international law, not just in the interests of the union but also in the more general interests of all of us who wish to see international law upheld within the western balkans generally. it is also important that, at a critical time, we do not collectively resile from the very clear position on the steps croatia needs to take. i find it curious, as a british minister standing here on behalf of the presidency, that implicit in the questions is a suggestion that britain is somehow averse to the accession of a country such as croatia, given britain's longstanding commitment to enlargement and our determination that croatia should be able to take its place within the european union in due course. the bar to that is simply the fact that it is obliged to uphold the international obligations as set out by the international criminal tribunal. that is why i am keen to emphasise today that the ball is primarily in the court of the croatian government and i am hopeful that, in light of the taskforce work that is being undertaken at the moment, we will see further progress in croatia that will allow accession to move forward expeditiously.
i warmly welcome that last reply from the president-in-office. of course croatia should not enter into negotiations with the eu until it complies with the international criminal tribunal's conditions. but will he accept that this is only a necessary, not a sufficient, condition and that croatia also has to address the question of the krajina serbs and other major issues before we can enter into detailed negotiations about membership?
president-in-office of the council. the presidency was encouraged by max-peter ratzel, the new director of europol's positive meeting with the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs back in june. we are working with both the european parliament and europol to improve the exchange of information between the two institutions. the presidency is fully committed to making the system of accountability as transparent as possible. as members of this house will know, europol is directly funded by member states and is directly accountable to member states via the europol management board and indeed the council of ministers. however, the presidency hopes that mr ratzel will soon return to the european parliament for further discussions.
in contrast to mr newton dunn earlier, i am more than happy and satisfied with that answer. could the president-in-office amplify or underline what charles clarke has been saying over the past couple of days, that in order fully to deal with terrorism, with cross-border crime – a far more difficult task than it at first seems to the general public – we must attempt to promote a europol that functions to its true potential and operates as transparently as possible within the rules, within the new directive – which you have rightly said is an efficient and good addition to europol – so that we can attack terrorism at its roots as well as organised crime?
president-in-office of the council. i am aware that the european union could be more formally involved through timely political endorsement for the ongoing peace process to which the honourable member referred. but that would take place once the colombian government has set out a comprehensive legal framework. this position has not changed and the union is currently studying carefully the new colombian legislation, the 'justice and peace law' agreed in late june, to gauge whether these conditions have now been met.
president-in-office, in dealing with a sovereign government, is it not important, unlike the initial questioner, to always keep a sense of balance? in that regard, has the council yet discussed and acted upon the disgraceful fact that three convicted international terrorists, who are fugitives from justice in colombia, are now enjoying sanctuary in a european union member state, namely the republic of ireland? is the council content with this situation and, if not, what action is proposed?
president-in-office of the council. in the course of my replies to questioners this afternoon, i have already been clear as to the distinction that is appropriately drawn between those matters for which a reply can reasonably be expected from the presidency and those matters which instead lie within the domain of individual member state governments. the case to which the honourable member refers, the so-called colombia three, is a matter between the irish government and the colombian government. it is for the irish authorities to pursue any extradition request with the colombian government if that is what they choose to do, but it is essentially a matter for the irish authorities. in that regard, i think that is all it would be appropriate for me to say at this stage.
president-in-office of the council. improved communication and cooperation between regulators is vital to the smooth operation of the internal market. in its recent report on the application of the postal directive, the commission has proposed intensifying cooperation and indeed benchmarking with national regulatory agencies, either bilaterally or within the framework of the postal directive committee, in order to tackle the irregularities that may persist in this sector. as well as benchmarking exercises, we should also consider initiatives such as the solve-it scheme. such initiatives encourage regulators to communicate directly with one another to solve problems. we also need to make sure that we review existing legislation to see whether it has achieved its objectives on the ground. with that in mind, the telecommunications and energy council, meeting in december, will discuss commission implementation reports in these relevant sectors.
there are so many scots in the chamber that i think, if we are going to have a common language, it should probably be scottish. i am grateful to the president-in-office for his reply and it goes some way towards answering my supplementary question as well. he appears to be agreeing with me that there is not a level playing field at the present time, causing this asymmetry. therefore, what concrete proposals is the presidency planning to improve the coordination between national regulatory authorities in order to ensure that there is a genuine, free and fair internal market for all operators?
president-in-office of the council. the last time i saw so many scots gathered together was probably around the british cabinet table, but i am not sure i would be brave enough to make that point back in london. as regards the point raised by the honourable member, it is a matter of which i have had some direct experience, having myself been the minister responsible for postal services in the united kingdom when i was at the department of trade and industry. at that time i was aware of exactly the kinds of concerns he raised. i can assure you that there is an awareness of these issues, not simply from a presidency point of view but in the context of a member state. as regards the concrete steps to be taken on cooperation between national regulators, i reiterate the point i made in my earlier response. in terms of the application of the postal services directive and in particular the report published by the commission, the commission strongly recommended that there should be intensified cooperation between national regulators, and that certainly has our full support. a balance has to be struck between the constructive oversight that the commission can provide in this area of work and a greater involvement by national regulators themselves in what surely is of common interest to them, ensuring a level playing field.
does the president-in-office agree with me that part of the problem is that different countries are proceeding with liberalisation at different rates? the united kingdom will soon fully liberalise, along with germany and the netherlands, which means that 60% of the market will be liberalised. therefore, the key element will be the commission's forthcoming report on the final steps towards full liberalisation in 2009, dealing with regulatory authorities, access arrangements, and also the differing treatment of vat between the reserved and non-reserved sectors, which is a very sensitive issue and needs to be treated with due care.
mr president, there is a great deal in this report, i hope not too much, but i want to thank the rapporteur for including a particular women's health issue with which i have been much involved. i refer to a disease which affects an estimated 14 million women and girls across the eu. there is no known cure, the cause is unknown and the average diagnosis time is rising, not falling, now standing at nine years. the disease i am talking about is endometriosis. it wrecks lives, it wrecks families, it causes infertility, it is not just 'bad period pains'. the disease desperately needs serious research and attention. as members will be aware, we had a written declaration in this house to raise awareness. we achieved a total of 266 signatures, more than has ever been achieved on a single health issue. seemingly, though, the pain caused by this disease goes unnoticed. it is a real gender issue. even in our modern society, no one wants to talk about the pain associated with menstruation; women should 'just get on with it'. that cannot be right. the consequences of this disease are heart-rending for many women and families and there are also consequences for europe's economy. 14 million women across the eu are waiting for someone to take their suffering seriously. it is wonderful that the rapporteur has included it. i was grateful that the commissioner mentioned it, but really it is now up to the commission and the member states to do something about this dreadful disease, which is a gender issue affecting only women and girls. i wonder what might have been the case had it been a male disease!
(the speaker spoke in irish) mr president, i concur with the notion that good health is not merely the absence of illness, but is about physical, mental and social wellbeing. that concept lies at the heart of a strategy called the investing for health strategy, which i initiated in my constituency during my time as minister of health, social services and public safety in the northern ireland assembly. i saw myself not as a minister of illness, but as a minister of health. this report by eva-britt svensson – and i thank her for it – highlights many of the pertinent issues. it contains good, practical recommendations that are worthy of support. it has been put to me that being a woman is bad for your health and indeed there are statistics that reinforce that commonly held view. we hear now of statistics from scandinavia suggesting that there are inequalities not only in health status, but also in the response of health systems and health services to women, as compared with men. if this is the case in scandinavia, with its relatively good record on equality, then it is time we took a very close look at trends in other member states. i welcome commissioner kyprianou's recognition of the importance of data. i also echo the proposal put forward here this evening by my colleague, kartika liotard. recognition of gender inequalities in health is required if we are going to successfully combat disparities and ensure that there is adequate health care for everyone.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to thank the house for giving me the opportunity to present this report. it is an important report in terms of the schools which the european institutions run principally for the children of staff who work in the institutions. it is quite an undertaking these days. at the moment there are over 19 200 pupils in fourteen european schools in ten locations, including brussels and luxembourg. therefore, we have a responsibility here to make sure that these schools are providing the best education possible, in the best way, making best use of the resources and using the teaching staff and the curriculum in the best possible way. that is what i have sought to look at in my report, and it is important that we consider these issues at this point because these schools were in fact set up about fifty years ago and, although there have been times when they have been looked at, essentially not very much has changed in that time. so we now have an opportunity to look at these schools, the way they are run, their governance, their funding and the curriculum, and make recommendations for improvements. in my report, i have specifically looked at those areas, that is to say, at finance, governance and government of the schools, at the curriculum and the way that it is taught within the schools. first of all i would like to raise the question of finance. mr bösch is here who in fact did a report a couple of years ago on this subject and i think he will want to talk further on this. however, it is important that we look at the way the schools are funded and make sure that we are using our funds to the very best advantage. a particular area i would like to highlight is the way that teachers are employed. at the moment, teachers are seconded from member states to teach in the european schools for a certain period of time after which many of them go back to their own member states. given the way the schools are organised, in that in addition to mother-tongue teaching, there is teaching of certain subjects in community languages, the system as it stands at the moment places an unfair burden on english-speaking countries, which provide proportionately more teachers because there is a demand within the european schools for english teaching. i hope, as a result of this report, that particular issue will be taken on board. the other thing which is important under the ‘finance’ heading is the question of fees and the way that the structure of payments works. children of employees of the european institutions do not have a fee levied on them, which is absolutely right because that is the reason why the schools were set up. however, these days, many school places, not the majority, but very many places in the schools, are filled by children from outside the european institutions. there are a significant number who come from other government-type institutions and from local industry. they are generally paid for by the organisation which sends them. so that does not present too many problems. but where there are real difficulties is in the remaining pupils, who are chosen by what appears to be a fairly random method and pay a proportion of the fees themselves – their families pay for them. this system has come in for considerable criticism because it is not transparent and very often the fees levied are not sufficient, they are not actually reflecting the market rates. turning to the question of governance, i would like to see the administrative boards which govern the schools have more autonoy. in terms of curriculum, the main thing is that we reduce class sizes so that no class within the european schools is more than thirty; at the moment the maximum is thirty-two. so i commend this report to you and i ask for your support.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, whilst i do not believe that the united kingdom should be part of the eu, it would be quite wrong of me to deny the right of those parents who work for the qualifying institutions – in most cases outside their country of origin and in many cases in a country that does not share their mother tongue – to give their children a suitable education. the european schools provide the only practical way for many such parents to exercise that right. i have no quibbles there. in most respects, the rapporteur has considered the european schools in the same proper light. it would be churlish of me not to say so. i do, however, differ from her on one or two points. first of all, the rapporteur defines category i pupils as children of staff in the service of community institutions and bodies. there is a significant omission here. category i status also covers children of the staff of the uk atomic energy authority seconded to the joint european tourist projects in culham, near oxford, and children of staff covered by the service regulations of the european patent office in munich. the uk atomic energy authority is most certainly not a community institution and, furthermore, the joint european tourism project involves one eu pre-accession state, romania, and one completely non-eu state, switzerland. as for the european patent office, it covers switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein, monaco, and will soon bring in norway. as i had to stress during the debate on computer patents, that means that it is most assuredly not a community institution. i am sad to have to make that point again so soon. too often we see an assumption in this parliament that europe and the eu are one and the same thing. here is another example. this is not a trivial point in a general sense, nor is it trivial with specific regard to this report, because the rapporteur states that only 1.6% of pupils at culham are category i. she may well be correct, but if she actually means that only 1.6% of pupils at culham are children of staff in the community institutions then she could be very wide of the mark. i hope she can clarify that statistic. i am most concerned by the commissioner's suggestion that the option of offering the european baccalaureate outside the current school system should be considered. could the rapporteur please clarify that as well? is the commission suggesting that the european baccalaureate should be available in schools other than the european schools? i simply do not see why it is necessary to interfere with other schools in order to broaden and modernise the curriculum of the european schools. if i were a teacher and a pupil gave the eu as the answer, i would have to conclude that it was a very stupid question.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner for his very full, descriptive statement on the northern dimension and also for sharing with us some of the thoughts about the future. it is about the future – what comes after 2006 – that there is much concern. over the last six years, i have had the privilege to represent this parliament on a number of parliamentary bodies in the arctic, barents and baltic region. it is quite clear that our parliamentary colleagues on those bodies look to this parliament and the european union to provide a robust and functioning northern dimension policy. it is somewhat ironic that this is a policy that is normally played out at a regional level and it is therefore absolutely essential that it involves elected members and all other stakeholders, as the commissioner has said. however, it is a policy that tends to be set at the biannual ministerial meetings. therefore this parliament has sometimes suggested that some form of northern dimension forum, bringing in all the stakeholders and elected representatives, would be a good idea for the future. we must give this policy bottom-up motion so that it is really working and dynamic and represents the wishes of the area it is there to serve. also, the original northern dimension had a wide vision of a policy from the urals to greenland, encompassing the arctic and the subarctic region. it is right that we concentrate much effort on our relationship with russia, and there is much that can be done there. if we have a dynamic st petersburg, then the baltic itself will be dynamic and that even reflects on trade in the area i know best – the north-east coast of the united kingdom. so it can benefit all of us and we must take an interest. however, it must be a shared policy in partnership with russia, not a covert way of directing some eu policy towards russia. as has already been mentioned, we must also bring in our other partners, norway and iceland. the norwegian government has recently produced a very full policy document for discussion on the high north. it wants european union involvement. we should respond to that. this fragile area of our world gives us the opportunity to cooperate with many partners and even to have dialogue with the us on climate change. we should seize that opportunity within a wider northern dimension policy.
mr president, it is indeed timely that we should be discussing the northern dimension in this house. i also join with others in saluting the initiative taken by the finnish government. it is also good to remark, as colleagues have said, that this debate is attended by french, german, austrian, belgian, british and other colleagues. it is timely, as has been said, that we extend the work of the northern dimension to encompass a baltic sea strategy, which is a true reflection of today's reality, the baltic bordered by eight eu member states and the russian federation. in this parliament there is a baltic europe intergroup, which meets every month in strasbourg and which i have the honour to chair. it encompasses members not only from each political group but also representing the great majority of member states. we have been working to produce a baltic sea strategy. yesterday we had the honour to meet with president-in-office and minister for europe mr alexander. we are extremely grateful for his enthusiasm and interest in the project leading up to the ministerial meeting on 21 november on the northern dimension. commissioner michel, i would urge you – perhaps in your reply – just to confirm that the commission, you and your colleagues will be working extremely closely with the british presidency to ensure the successful initiation and implementation of the baltic sea strategy, which will be seen as a natural extension – a complement – to the work of the northern dimension. i wholly agree with others, that we shall have a discreet budget line for the baltic sea strategy to match and balance the very successful work that we do through the euromed policy, which – obviously – historically predates the work in the baltic. the scope of this work cannot be underestimated: its importance ranks in the very highest policy that the eu should now be developing. what we are talking about is nothing less than offsetting and overcoming half a century of soviet occupation, oppression, misrule and marginalisation. we are pledged to restore the economic harmony, security, prosperity and cultural vibrancy of the baltic region. to ensure the success of this work, it is absolutely vital that the british, german, polish, french and italian governments and the whole of the eu administration lend their support to this great work. we want to see a truly successful enlarged european union. that will not happen unless we have a successful baltic sea strategy.
i have listened to this debate with interest, yet not taken part, much like the country i represent, scotland. the scottish parliament has complete competence in areas like fisheries, the environment and several other areas relevant to the northern dimension. sadly, we have had little input to the development of this policy, though i do hope that that will change. we have much to contribute from our own experience, and much to learn as a west-nordic nation. i today make a plea to the european commission to remember us in their planning, and to the scottish government to play a more active part alongside our neighbours iceland, norway and others.
on behalf of the pse group .– mr president, i would like to thank mr cornillet for his report, which highlights the importance of tourism and its potential in the developing world. when looking at the developing world, we have to remember that tourism plays more of a role in some regions and countries than in others; the figures in the report show that. in the caribbean, tourism is a key driver of the economy, but that is not the case across sub-saharan africa where, with a few exceptions, tourism is not such a big factor. for that reason, the socialist group cannot support the report in its entirety. for example, we cannot support paragraph 8, which asks all developing countries to draft tourism development plans, to produce annual reports on figures and contributions, because that is not appropriate in all cases and in many countries it would be a pretty low priority. nor can we agree with paragraph 10. at a time when the eu is demanding more and more visa controls from third country nationals, it seems a bit ironic that we then ask other countries to drop their visa requirements. visas are often a major source of income for developing countries, so that is not something that we can support. there are also a couple of areas where the report could be more nuanced. for example, recitals q and t. experience shows that, unfortunately, it is quite possible for tourism to flourish alongside undemocratic regimes. some of those regimes have proved good at protecting tourism and tourists with very strong-arm police tactics. however, they have at the same time been oppressing their own people, which is why i have reservations about paragraphs 24 and 25. we in the socialist group strongly support moves to develop tourism, particularly eco-tourism, sustainable tourism, and we welcome what the commissioner said. we want the private sector to invest in tourism, but to do so responsibly, to develop tourism projects that contribute to the local economy and help micro-businesses to grow, so that local people benefit and local produce is consumed. in too many areas including, for example, all-inclusive packages and cruise tours, tourism takes out of local economies, but often does not put much back in. in some cases – and here i disagree with mr cornillet – it can damage the environment, using scarce resources too much. we need to look more carefully at the kind of tourism projects we want to invest in. could the eu and the commission do more? i am sure they could, and we have heard some examples of what might be proposed. do we need a new dg to do that? i am not so sure. i am not sure that if we had a dg tourism it would in any case do much for the developing world. i very much welcome the section on sex tourism. it is extremely important that we do a lot more to tackle this criminal activity, so thanks again to mr cornillet for his report.
mr president, my thanks and congratulations go to the rapporteur. it is very important that we acknowledge that tourism is a major industry in many developing countries. many developing countries such as poorer countries, and ldcs such as mozambique and others, see it as a sector which needs to be developed further. therefore, it is appropriate to ask the commission to look at ways that we can do that, certainly with acp countries, under the provisions already existing in the cotonu agreement. for some developing countries, tourism accounts for something like 50% of gdp, so we should be aware of that. we can be positive; it leads to the development of infrastructure, it can help to reduce the isolation of rural communities and it offers new opportunities for vegetable growers and others in developing countries. however, there are downsides, which all of us here would acknowledge. we need to have a proper regulatory framework that ensures that there are no corrupt practices and that there is no property speculation or environmental damage, and it should not be beyond the wit of us as donors to ensure that host countries do not suffer in any way from the development of tourism. what i see and hear from the commission is that there does not seem to be very much understanding of how we can actually integrate tourism into the broader development strategies we have; that ought to be positive and something that can be thought about. there need to be well publicised penalties, as my colleague has said, for people who are involved in sex tourism because so many people, especially children, are drawn into prostitution and drugs. the european union has a role to play here, and we have a role in pressing the industry – nobody here has spoken about the responsibility of the tourist industries in our own countries to ensure that their practices do not damage the countries where they are. we need to be sure that we are pressing the need for workers' rights – on low wages, on long hours and on the lack of secure contracts. this is the kind of thing that could be monitored through our acp relationship with 78 countries.
mr president, i echo the comments of my group colleague, mr kusstatscher, concerning the many positive aspects of this report, which does a decent job of highlighting the paradox that exists in the developing world when it comes to tourism. in developing this issue, however, the commission should bear in mind the principles of yesterday's sustainable tourism debate. the sustainable tourism report was excellent. i would hope that the commission would view that debate and this one as two sides of the same coin, when looking to come up with a strategy in this area. i quite agree with the rapporteur that tourism can be a powerful force for good in countries in the developing world. however, i remember well, when i was working in india for six months, how very often the impact of tourism on local communities was negative. i suggest that one of the most useful things that we and the commission can do to take this forward is to focus on sustainability and perhaps even the production of a code of best practice that companies can aspire to. we can be positive in this field. i look forward to seeing how the commission will take it forward.
mr president, tourism in any region should be a positive contributor to economic growth and stability. obviously, tourism and terrorism do not mix and as an area meant to be emerging for good from the dark shadow of terrorism, we in northern ireland are beginning, i am glad to say, to see a steady gain from increased tourism. i greatly welcome that, but one has to recognise that, without real governmental commitment, the full potential can never be achieved. tourism must plan well. it must build on opportunities. the olympic games coming to london in 2012 is such an opportunity for my region. i call not just for the games but for the tourism spin-off to be managed and organised in such a way that every region of the uk will benefit. 2012 also presents particular opportunities for belfast as it is the centenary of the titanic – i might add that we had a ‘titanic’ victory last night on the football field over england! a world-class titanic exhibition centre is planned for the very site where that famous ship was built. i trust neither national government nor commission will be found wanting in financially contributing to the great success that venture can be.
rapporteur.– mr president, my reports always start with a quotation. on this occasion it is: principiis obstata; sero medicina paratur cum mala per longas convaluere moras. if that is difficult for the interpreters, that is the oldest language – or one of them – of europe. it is ovid, and it translates as 'stop it at the start; it is late for medicine to be prepared when disease has grown strong through long delays'. that is my theme. in 2005, we have seen many health threats, and a new health threat on our agenda as marburg has emerged in angola with a mortality rate of over 90%. europe responded swiftly, supporting médecins sans frontières, providing not just the powerful antibiotics and the intravenous fluids, but water purification systems and disposable, protective gear. that is just one example of the need for vigilance, prevention and rapid response, just one reason why we must never 'cherry-pick' in our battle against disease. we must continue to tackle the big three of aids, tb and malaria, but just as many – or even more – people die, become chronically ill or live with disabilities caused by diseases that the world neglects. it is time to end that poverty of fatalism; it is time to bring neglected diseases in from the cold and to bring real hope to those who live with and, too often, die from these diseases. ten per cent of the world's biomedical research funds are dedicated to addressing the problems that are responsible for 90% of the world's burden of disease; that is the imbalance. at the end of 2004, for all neglected diseases, we had just 18 r&d projects in clinical development and a further 42 on the way. while, for other diseases, we had 2 100 projects in clinical development. less than 1% of the 1 393 new drugs placed on the market between 1975 and 1999 were for infectious tropical diseases. every year, 1.5 million children under five die from vaccine-preventable diseases. patients suffering from sleeping sickness, leish-maniasis, dengue, trachoma and many others are given, too often, archaic drugs, some highly toxic, some ineffective. some diseases are neglected because they are rare in western countries, so no market has emerged to develop such drugs. some are neglected because western drugs are not made available or affordable. in my case, i live with diabetes. i have access to western medicine, treatment and care. when we were in mali for the eu-acp joint parliamentary assembly, i went to visit the local diabetes support clinics. there were two – only in bamako – and they could not afford the drugs or the insulin, so the result was amputations and blindness, liver disease and early deaths. my call is for more research for neglected diseases and more support for care projects in developing countries. clinical research is slow and patchy. there is plenty of basic research and knowledge about parasites and genomes, but there needs to be more bridging research to translate basic research into tested and safe drugs and clinical applications. i support very much the dndi call for more research in this area, and i hope colleagues will sign up to its campaign. the call is also for more help – both available and affordable – for diseases which affect the developed world, like diabetes, epilepsy, depression and schizophrenia. fifty-two million people are afflicted with epilepsy in our world; 80% of them are not treated; 70% could live seizure-free lives with comparatively cheap five-euros-a-day anti-epileptic drugs. the story goes on. i very much welcome what the commission has brought forward on hiv/aids, malaria and tb. its communication and then the programme for action are very welcome. we know that there were more new infections with aids in 2004 than in any previous year. we know that anti-retroviral prices are an increasingly serious public health hazard – that is a statement by the who. we know that malaria is giving real opportunity with the new drugs made from the plant artemisia, and we need to accelerate the production and distribution of that as well as of insecticide-protected nets. with tb we need to recognise the link to aids – the multi-drug resistance versions which kill two million a year. i urge the commission to carry on its good work on tb, aids and malaria and to renew its efforts in the neglected diseases, because they are also killing and debilitating people across the developing world.
in writing. the widespread fires and floods experienced this summer in europe further emphasise the need to take seriously a global strategy on climate change. it is appropriate to ensure that the solidarity fund rules clearly allow for aid to populations directly affected by natural disasters, and that funds can be released quickly on receipt of member state requests.
in writing. i voted in favour of this initiative report, which highlights discrepancies between men and women in terms of prescription, treatments and costs. although i oppose human cloning, i believe that there is merit in researching the potential for stem cell treatments for degenerative diseases.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are supportive of efforts to deal with gender discrimination in health systems across the eu. poor access to healthcare and any form of exploitation of women are matters that should be addressed by member states in public policy development. it is clearly desirable that member states share information and best practice on how these problems should be addressed and sections of this report do provide some useful ideas. however, there a number of suggestions in this report with which we take issue and which have led to our decision on the final vote. using structural funds for preventative medical purposes and demanding specific conditions on employment of medical personnel are issues that are rightly the preserve of member states.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues conservatives are largely supportive of this report that suggests much needed reform to an outdated system where the eu gives €127 million to european schools. however, it is essential that a budget ceiling is put in place for the eu's contributions; that member states hosting the schools give a greater contribution towards the local costs; that there is a realistic contribution from parents of category iii children. we also urge the commission to make an appropriate response to the advisory board's recommendations to deliver value for money and to protect the interests of the eu taxpayer.
in writing. the european schools exist to provide an education in their mother tongue for the children of officials of the european institutions. unlike some members i welcome this. children of eu officials deserve a quality education in their mother tongue and the existence of the schools helps the institutions in the recruitment and retention of suitable qualified personnel. the rapporteur is right to focus on two issues which the schools have so far failed to address, firstly, access and provision for pupils with special needs which must be improved, secondly, the need to introduce a more vocational curriculum and set of qualifications.
mr president, i very much welcome this report. in recent years waiving or reducing royalties on drugs for poor countries has been championed by the eu and i urge us not to be fainthearted in pressing for more concessions, whatever the complexity of the arguments, many of which i do not fully believe, and i say that as a european patent attorney, as well as a politician. only yesterday we voted measures to compensate for the cost of research for paediatric medicine. clearly, when market forces of themselves will not provide cost-effective research for drugs for our own children, it is not surprising that there are even fewer resources available for developing and poor countries. for malaria and tb, which are already increasing in developed countries, there are several partnership research projects under way which include a pledge to make the eventual drugs affordable for developing countries. one such project is being led by oxford university. it aims to produce a malaria vaccine and is being run in conjunction with an oxford biotech company and a german pharmaceutical company. a tb vaccine is being similarly investigated elsewhere by others. as well as being preventative, vaccines are usually one-off treatments, something which is an additional benefit in environments and countries where drug storage and dosage regimes are hard to follow or supply routes are insecure. but we have to recognise that, especially for lesser-known diseases, public funding will be essential and i believe that the eu should include this in its programmes. i can support this report, as will many, simply from my heart and sense of humanity, but there are reasons to support it with your pockets, for with many of these diseases delay in action will come back to bite in other ways later.
author.– mr president, this motion reflects an anxiety, based on evidence from previous african famines, that dealing with the immediate crisis by flooding the country with foreign food aid might undercut local producers and increase poverty in the longer term. however, there are ways of tackling this crisis which do not risk damaging the local economy. the ngo oxfam, for example, is operating income creation schemes so that people can afford to buy food. oxfam has reduced the number of weak animals by buying them at a fair price and slaughtering them. it is also using voucher-for-work schemes, covering activities such as the removal of animal carcasses, drying of slaughtered meat and reforestation. the crisis in niger this year is not exceptional; for many people, the hunger they now face is only a slight worsening of what they see every year. despite short rains and locust infestation, food production this year was in fact only 11 % below the five-year average. therefore, the real question is not what caused the crisis this year, but what is causing endemic hunger and poverty. the answer to that is complex; there are reports that, in the villages where women and children are starving, grain is lying in locked household stores, which women are forbidden by custom to enter. we often talk about the importance of the role of women, but there can be no starker an example than this of the damage that occurs when women are powerless. only one in four girls attend primary school in niger; if girls start to go to school then women will start to break into their own grain stores. finally, we in europe are making the long-term problem worse because of our failure to take strong enough action on climate change. all the agricultural improvement programmes ever invented will be useless if the desertification of the sahel continues. overgrazing and deforestation are factors, but so is the rise in the world's temperature. so let us have some joined-up thinking here in the european parliament. next time we are discussing measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, let us remember marginal lands and famine in africa.
author.– mr president, i should like to start by quoting the words of james morris of the world food programme. he said, 'niger has sent us a message in the whimpers of children too malnourished to cry for help'. he also said, 'sadly, the spotlight has already shifted and donations have again dried up.' that is the problem. 2.7 million people in niger are in urgent need of food aid. there is growing concern that, while food aid distribution continues across the worst affected parts of the country, financial support for emergency operations is tailing off. in the second half of august the wfp only received two donations. funding for its emergency operation is still under 50% and $29.6 million are still needed to deliver the aid required. a food crisis is complex. weather patterns, food production, markets, technologies, sanitation, health care, education and child-rearing practices have all played their role. last year's drought coupled with the invasion of locusts, followed by drought this year, have combined with an increase in food prices, which have tripled in rural areas and doubled in cities, partly as a result of demand from neighbouring countries such as nigeria. we share the view of the msf, which has been critical of the slow response, first by the government of niger and then by the un. the wfp only expects to deliver food rations to 110 000 people, 10% of the worst-affected area's 1.2 million. the concern is that the food distribution is not reaching those in the greatest need, especially children under five, and the food being distributed is not appropriate for the young children and infants who are the main victims of this current epidemic. we are concerned, too, that the crisis will spread to the other countries in the region. the wider sahel and northern areas of mali are already suffering and in burkina faso farmers have already lost up to 90% of their harvest and are having to sell their cattle to raise money for basic foods. we need urgent action and we need it now.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i echo the comments made by my group colleague, mrs isler béguin, in questioning the commission's action in this area, but we must also play our part in this house. the situation in niger almost defies description – a country of 12 million people afflicted on a regular, ongoing basis by all manner of natural disasters, compounded by domestic error and international indifference until it is too late, and by incoherence on an ongoing basis. it was hoped that the g8 summit, which we in scotland hosted, would take some brave steps towards providing an ongoing framework, perhaps giving the commission a lead for ongoing, coherent, constructive engagement with countries like niger. we were sorely disappointed, but at least the debt relief announced was a step forward. it is our role in this house to monitor that those words are actually turned into action. perhaps we can discuss that at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which – i am delighted to say – will be coming to edinburgh in november. we in this house must play our part in providing a coherent framework and i look forward to working with the commission on that basis.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, religious freedom is a fundamental human right and, as a previous speaker said, the chinese constitution claims, at article 36, to allow for freedom of religious belief, yet the rhetoric is not the reality. one example given by amnesty international was the case of zhang rongliang, who was the leader of one of the largest house church networks in china. he was detained in his village; the police searched every house in that village, confiscating any christian material; his wife and child have been in hiding; he has been imprisoned five times for a total of 12 years, during which time he was severely tortured. this house has also raised the case of tenzin delek rinpoche, the tibetan monk, who was sentenced to death by the chinese authorities in an unfair trial. he is now in prison for life, but no one knows where he is being held, and his family would like to know. until china deals seriously with religious freedom, we will have to highlight human rights abuses in this house. we have to speak up for those who do not have the freedom to speak for themselves.
mr president, china is a great nation and has been a great civilisation, but its name and standing are diminished by its human rights abuses. i want the chinese to listen to the words of my colleagues and to this resolution on religious freedom. i want them to release the catholics and christians in prison. i want them to bring justice to the muslims, the uigurs in xinjiang. i want them to bring justice to the tibetans and withdraw their threat of imposing their panchen lama. i want them to stop the abuse of psychiatry. i want them to listen to the voice of miss fen yang, arrested when visiting friends and sentenced without trial to two years in a female labour camp, where she is abused and brainwashed. i want them to listen to the mother of wang nan, who died in tiananmen square. her mother was arrested for receiving a parcel of t-shirts. those are the abuses that we cannot tolerate. only if china listens, acts and puts an end to these abuses will it earn and deserve our respect.
author.– mr president, syria remains under president bashar al-assad, the sole baathist regime left in the arab world following the demise of iraqi baathism. since 1963, syria has operated under a state of perpetual emergency, which is the legal basis for many of the repressive instruments imposed by the government and which it justifies on the grounds of the ongoing conflict with israel following syria's loss of the golan heights in 1967 and the struggle against islamist terrorists who oppose the secular socialist state. more recently, as syria has pursued a more active engagement with the eu through participating in the barcelona process and signing a euromed association agreement, all areas of its domestic policy have been subject to intense international scrutiny, in particular its poor human rights track record and alleged holding of political prisoners, with deaths in custody and arbitrary arrests, the preventing of free assembly or of citizens from leaving the country, and, of course, the use of torture. matters have not been helped by syria's lamentable behaviour in turning a blind eye to islamist terrorists crossing into iraq from its territory in spite of its own fight against islamism, as well as its covert support to terrorist training for hamas, islamic jihad and hezbollah, in spite of its continuing denials of such support. syria's withdrawal from lebanon under international pressure has been marred by the arrest of the pro-syrian security chiefs in connection with the assassination of rafik hariri, a fierce critic of the syrian regime. syria remains a one-party state although there is talk of ending this state of affairs. this resolution calls for clemency for a number of cases cited by amnesty international and there can be no doubt that the plight of the stateless kurds in hassake and the discrimination against the still remaining small jewish community are totally unacceptable. as rapporteur on the european neighbourhood policy, i believe that it is nevertheless important to keep syria engaged in dialogue with the eu and to encourage the process of democratisation and observation of fundamental human rights which syria has signed up to in its international obligations - obligations which it must meet if it really wants to enjoy a beneficial euromed action plan in future.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, on behalf of my group, i would like to welcome president-in-office prescott, clearly keener to enjoy the company of former colleagues than to join his party's bean feast in brighton. i, too, welcome our new friends from romania and bulgaria. i am sorry that they join us at a less than happy time. europe is in the doldrums: its constitution has suffered a setback, its budget in stalemate, its economy stagnating. it seeks a fresh breeze to lift its sails. previously, parliaments looked to the commission to take the lead: as the guardian of the treaties; as the motor of integration, the initiator of ideas. this parliament must challenge the member states. is germany ready to reform? will italy deal with its deficit? will tony blair back up his fine words with full british participation in europe's projects? and will paris and the hague show leadership of their people? now more than ever, parliament and commission must work together to rescue the european project, to unite the union. five years ago in lisbon, the member states agreed an agenda. five months ago in brussels, the commission set out a new strategy for jobs and growth. how many weeks must we wait for consensus in the council, and when we reach consensus, for the courage to carry it through? we have read of a bonfire of regulations, doubtless long overdue. but permit me a word on process. better enforcement of laws: that is for the commission and the court. fewer, more focused new laws: that is for the commission, too. but decisions to scrap directives and to improve scrappy directives are a process involving parliament, and we expect a say in withdrawing or re-writing laws. (applause) commissioner wallström, our involvement is your accountability. our approval is your legitimacy. i fear you will not agree the budget under britain's presidency. but use your public tour of europe, together with mr barroso, to get agreement in national capitals for the financing the union needs. we need more champions like airbus. we will not have those with a cap of 1%. we need to invest in upskilling; to provide for lifelong learning; to boost research and development – no way on 1%. commissioner wallström, do now the tour you should have done in june. set the agenda or the member states will set it for you. europe's constitution bears fine signatures of presidents and prime ministers. yet some of our citizens declined to sign it off. arguably the recipe is not quite right. possibly, people suspect it was signed in bad faith. certainly its signatories show precious little respect for the institutions they have established. for the present, it is in cold storage. so, yes, mr barroso, let us get the politics right, and getting them right probably means getting them centre. but, where the constitution is concerned, do not rush to perform the burial rites. to paraphrase mark twain, rumours of its death may be exaggerated. let us use this period of reflection to call chirac and balkenende before this house to tell us how they propose to proceed; hold hearings with those who have not yet ratified; confront the member states with their responsibilities. together, let us show that our union meets the needs of its people: enhancing security without threatening liberty; building the foundation for jobs without undermining solidarity; gaining eu added value without diminishing identity. if this is our agenda, some time from now our institutions and our institutional plans should once again command from our citizens the support and dedication they deserve. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i welcome our friends from bulgaria and romania. they will be warmly received by this ever-expanding european empire. i would say this to them: although you are not elected, you will be treated as full members of the european political elite. you will be entitled to the very generous daily allowance; you will find the chauffeur service at your disposal; there will be an endless round of breakfasts, lunches, dinners and drinks receptions. after all that, with your expanded waistlines, the plan is that you go back to your home countries and tell people that all is well with this club that you have agreed to join. as marx said – and i mean groucho marx, not karl marx – 'i wouldn't join any club that would have me as a member'. as far as the eu is concerned that is pretty sound advice, because this is a club whose accounts have not been signed off for the last ten years. this is a club, as you heard from the group leaders earlier, that is treating the voters of france and the netherlands with absolute contempt as it tries to impose the provisions of a constitution that should be dead. it is a club that will take away your very rights to govern yourselves and, sadly, is increasingly beginning to resemble the very political system from which you have just escaped. you will hear barracking from those who live on this european union and who earn far more here than they would ever be worth in the commercial world. you are here as observers, so just have a look around. what are we doing here today? what a nonsense that we are spending eur 200 million a year of taxpayers' money on the monthly jaunt to strasbourg. have a look tomorrow and on wednesday and thursday at the absolutely farcical voting system here and realise that whatever mr barroso said last week about deregulation, less regulation and the sixty legislative acts they intend to withdraw, there have been some 2 000 legislative instruments passed in the short period since 1 july, when the british took over the presidency of the council. please look and go back and tell your people the truth. the ten member states that joined last year all had referendums in their countries. i understand there is no intention to hold referendums in romania and bulgaria. do not those people deserve the chance at least to vote in a referendum and have a debate? would it not be a huge, historic mistake to railroad those people into this failing european union without first telling them the truth? the british people were lied to 30 years ago about this european club. your people deserve better than that. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, public transport is important to all our local communities. in scotland, ferries provide an essential service to some of the european union's most peripheral and vulnerable communities. this week i will be welcoming a delegation representing the calmac trade unions to the european parliament, who will be meeting the transport commissioner on wednesday. presently these ferry services are being put out to tender in communities where they are the sole mode of transport connecting island communities to the mainland. under the latest commission proposals for land transport public service obligations, public administrations will be given flexibility over tendering processes and will be able to award certain services to in-house operators directly. why, then, are lifeline ferries being treated differently to trains, trams and metros? there are no trains, trams and metros in scotland's peripheral island communities. the position of the commission would appear to be contradictory and i urge the commission to clarify its position. lifeline ferry services are too important to be ignored.
mr president, i also wish to welcome our romanian colleagues, in particular to my own group, from the romanian democratic party, the democratic alliance of hungarians in romania and the romanian conservative party. the observers will clearly be learning the way that we work, which may be rather complicated, but i also believe that we should learn from romania's history. romania has suffered from fascism under the iron guard and from communism under ceausescu. however, because it is politically convenient, many people have forgotten that bessarabia was illegally invaded by stalin with the complicity of hitler. hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives or were exiled, and that part of romania was subjected. certain chapters in the history of central and eastern europe have been forgotten and we have to look at them. we should not make this an obsession, but we must draw conclusions and look to the future. romania before communism and fascism was one of great prosperity, with the anglo-romanian oil company and significant investment from france.
mr president, members from across national borders and political boundaries are in support of john packwood, who faces extradition from spain to morocco, which is something that could not happen to a spanish citizen. this is, of course, a violation of the equal treatment of eu citizens, enshrined in the treaty. it is discrimination which i call most strongly on the commission and the president to oppose by making representations to the spanish government before the extradition deadline. a case must be allowed to be developed that can go to the court of human rights, but this is also being denied as matters are being pushed through quickly. he is a desperate man facing a desperate plight and he needs all our support. i urge you to help in this case.
mr president, the fact that the left has just been voted out of office in poland lends added poignancy to this debate. i congratulate mr saryusz-wolski and the civic platform, as well as the law and justice party, on their victory in yesterday's general election, and i am sure poland has a great future under new leadership. lech wałęsa is the most prominent personification of solidarity and its success. he was in brussels recently to receive the acclaim of this house on its important anniversary. he has won many honours from countries and organisations around the world in recognition of his courage and vision, perhaps the greatest honour being his election as poland's president after communism crumbled. britain has always felt a special affinity with poland, and this was evidenced in the early 1980s when poland was going through very difficult times. it was a british conservative minister for foreign affairs, malcolm rifkind, who went to warsaw and became the first western politician to meet with representatives of solidarity, an act that infuriated the communist regime. this meeting was symbolic of the deep bond between britain and poland. all through those grim years we in britain never forgot poland, nor did we ever lose our conviction that democracy and freedom would ultimately prevail and that poland would once again take its honoured place in the european family. it is easy to forget the speed with which europe has moved on from those dark days and what life was like for those under the yoke of communist tyranny. that is why it is so important that we never forget, and with poland rightly taking its place in the european union last year we can be sure that those who suffered and those who inflicted the suffering will not be forgotten. solidarity symbolised then, as it does now, hope in the future, the determination of people to build better lives for themselves and their families and an unshakeable belief in the power of the human spirit. political systems can subjugate wills and extinguish individuality but they can never quench the desire to be free. we would all do well to learn the lessons that solidarity's history teaches us.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, capital requirements are regarded as useful in preventing bank failure because they make shareholders bear more of the cost of failure. the international basel ii proposals, which this directive implements, are designed to achieve a better match between capital and risk than the simple 8% capital asset ratio of basel i. however, no amount of bank capital, short of 100% of risk assets, can safeguard against failure. the minimum amounts of capital specified in any regulatory scheme are arbitrary. as mr radwan stressed, other problems are the extent to which risk-spreading amongst individual banks of a banking group should imply a reduction in regulatory capital, and the difficulty of defining the division of responsibility across national supervisors. there are no objective answers to those vexed questions. for that reason i question the competence of this parliament in this field. it is ridiculous that we should be involved in the minutiae of this directive given how complex and yet how important it is. but this is how parliament works, with all of us members, however experienced or inexperienced in the arcane arts of banking regulation, expected to make hundreds of reasoned judgments on questions, many of which cannot be answered in any objective way. the rapporteur recommends that, owing to doubt, this directive should be reviewed in the future. the banking industry does not need that. banks spend their time dealing with risk and uncertainty. adding further uncertainty over future regulation will not help them to plan or look after our interests as customers and shareholders. the bottom line is that there is no right amount of regulatory capital. if we kept that in mind when legislating, we would come up with rules that are a great deal simpler, and the members of this parliament would be spared from the farcical exercise of voting on hundreds of amendments.
mr president, i too should like to compliment mr radwan on the extremely able way in which he has steered this complex directive to this advanced stage. we all hope that the council of ministers will now be able to take the steps needed to make a first reading agreement possible. surely the presidency can make a supreme effort and undertake to reach a conclusion on the comitology issue to a mutually agreeable timescale. so much has been agreed on the complex, technical issues that it would surely be a shame – in fact, an absurd embarrassment – not to close the remaining gap. it is surely reasonable for parliament to aspire to a role in the legislative process which is equivalent to that of the other branch of the legislature – the council. our constituents expect that. indeed most of them assume that is already the case. all that we ask is for the council to assess that aspiration with dispatch. the industry needs timely legal certainty and will not readily forgive either of us – parliament or the council – if in the face of all common sense we allow this important directive to fail for what might appear to the outside world to be interinstitutional niceties. i now turn to international considerations. almost every european banking, insurance and asset management business will be affected by this new regime and will have to shoulder the costs of adjusting their systems. in america, on the other hand, only the largest international banks will have to comply. the competitive benefits will probably induce at least some of their medium-sized competitors to adopt basel ii too. however, even the smaller european financial institutions will have to comply and bear quite substantial financial costs in so doing, while their american competitors, such as asset management firms, will not have to. how will the commission ensure a level playing field for our financial institutions of all shapes and sizes in the global marketplace?
mr president, when we first discussed the issue of corporate governance following the high-level group's report, it was in the context of enron and the worldcom scandals. experts from the eu accounting industry said that 'it could never happen in europe', but then we had parmalat, which had an audit committee – as did enron – made up of eminent independent professors. the problem was that they did not show any independence of mind in challenging culpable business partners and the executive board. prescriptive audit committees were never the answer under this proposal, which is more about changing audit culture and practice. thanks to the pragmatism of our rapporteur, bert doorn, and good cooperation with the commission and presidency, we now have a flexible eu instrument that will raise the quality and consistency of audits across europe while also respecting the good domestic company law provisions already in place. a principles-based threats and safeguards approach will lead to a much more effective and robust eu regime. this will prove much better than the sarbanes-oxley rules-based system which may make it easier to lock someone up but does not improve the ethics, independence and public supervision of auditing structures. it was sensible to remove the prescriptive obligation for mandatory audit committees and replace it with a proposal to assign those functions to a body that meets audit standards and objectives and can implement the requirements in a transparent way. i also welcome compromises around the issue of audit partner rotation and the issue of non-audit work. however, we have to deal with the issue of comitology. the commission and successive presidencies, including the united kingdom presidency, have stepped up their efforts to achieve better regulation by improving the quality of eu laws and transposition and implementation. parliament has to be involved in this better regulation agenda and must have the right as co-legislator to ensure that the expert laws voted through this house can be scrutinised and monitored. it also has a role in transposition and implementation. i welcome the initiative by the presidency and the offers to take forward the reform of the 1999 comitology procedures to ensure we can play a role in the better regulation and regulatory process, and i look forward to amendments to be put forward by parliament being accepted in this area so that we can genuinely can play our role in the cooperation process.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i agree with virtually everything the previous speaker said, although the voting intentions of my political group have been misinterpreted, which i will come to in a moment. i should like to thank the rapporteur, who has had an extremely difficult task in trying to improve the deeply flawed document received from the council, which some of us see as an affront to human rights and to those seeking sanctuary. i find it very depressing that this 'fragile compromise', as it was described, was the best anyone could come up with. it simply encapsulates a lot of what member states are already doing. reference has already been made to the concept of super-safe third countries and indeed safe third countries. my political group has a major problem with this. at the moment the british government, for example, is prepared to send asylum seekers back to iraq, congo, zimbabwe and afghanistan. some of us are dealing at the moment with the case in which not only is someone being returned to iran, but his british christian wife is going with him, with the government paying her fare. that is all very generous. there are many in this house who do not believe any of those countries to be safe. therefore the minimum that we want, if we are to accept this flawed concept of safe third countries, is a unified list decided under codecision with parliament, which would be a step towards a common asylum policy. we are deeply concerned at the implications for non-refoulement, particularly as we are also witnessing an attack on article 3 of the european convention on human rights, which deals with the issue of not returning people to a situation in which they might face torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. we welcome the amendment from the rapporteur and mrs roure that keeps open the possibility of testing the human rights dimension of this in the courts. the committee's amendments have strengthened the text quite considerably. there is much greater emphasis, for example, on the rights of children and procedures for the vulnerable. there is much greater clarity as regards the need for adequate legal representation and an individual interview, which assumes even greater importance in the context of the single asylum procedure currently under consideration. we also welcome the commitment to adequate interpretation. everyone in this house knows how important skilled interpreters are. however, our lives are not dependent on them, whereas quality of interpretation can be absolutely crucial to an asylum seeker's future. the issue of detention is an extremely vexed subject, to put it mildly. however, arbitrary detention with no possibility of appeal is totally unacceptable. we believe, therefore, that the committee has done a good job in tightening the legal requirements surrounding this and making it clear that detention is not imprisonment when you have been accused of no crime.
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 166. you know as well as i do that, no matter what the colour of your politics in this place, there is one factor that uniquely unites nearly all of us: whether black, blue, yellow, red or green, we all try our best to represent the people who kindly gave us this job. in my region, the east midlands of the united kingdom, in the last election voters experimented and tried a different colour. indoctrinated by old adverts and tv celebrity, they believed that, as we say in the uk, the future is bright, the future is orange. a few months later and alas, one of our new representatives disappeared from the scene and from this parliament. there are many concerns for his safety: some believed he had been kidnapped, others that he was a relative of lord lucan. i ran a competition in the east midlands offering a bottle of champagne for the first confirmed sighting of my illustrious but missing colleague mr robert kilroy-silk. alas, to this day the champagne remains unclaimed, and so as an unclaimed prize, i believe i should give it to the man himself. here is the said bottle of champagne. (applause)
in writing. my vote on the retention of data report reflects both my feeling as a london mep that there is a necessity for the security services to have the most effective powers available to combat terrorism and protect the public. in developing important retention of data powers, it is equally important to ensure that the powers are workable, are developed in close partnership with internet service providers and that we achieve proportionality in relation to how long data can be retained. it is clear in the light of the london bombings that my own government wanted to see effective powers to tackle terrorism and as a london mep, i want to ensure these powers are both effective and proportionate, and that they help to the uk public safe.
in writing. this report forms the framework for the european union's common position on the sensitive question of dealing with the procedure for granting and withdrawing refugee status. despite the fact that the eplp still have certain reservations concerning the kreissl-dörfler report, british labour meps voted to support the report in the final vote. we do so safe in the knowledge that any outstanding concerns or problems will be rectified by national governments in council during the implementation stage of the new procedures. we remain confident that a balance can be found in council on the basis of some of the recommendations made under the consultation procedure in mr kreissl-dörfler's report.
in writing. this is an important and welcome report as it allows directly-elected representatives at the european parliament to have their say on a crucial civil liberties issue following the political agreement reached by the member states governments in council. i sympathise with the rapporteur's view that international standards for the protection of refugees (including the 1951 geneva convention) should not be undermined and fully endorse the role of parliamentarians in scrutinising the amendments proposed by the council. nevertheless, given the fast changing international climate, the need for some flexibility to be retained at the national level in the listing of 'safe third countries' leads me to abstain on aspects of this report. it is clear that we need a fair yet workable approach to the management of asylum, one which is sensitive to the needs of those fleeing political persecution, whilst guarding against possible abuse by others who do not have a legitimate claim. i therefore welcome the steps taken by council towards an integrated approach to asylum policy and look forward to further constructive proposals in this senitive area.
in writing. in my vote on the kreissl-dörfler report, i would like to express my concerns around the concept of "super-safe" countries, by which the eu states would be allowed to draw up a list of third countries, which are deemed so definitely safe so that refugees' status would be automatically denied. it is vital in my view, having practiced asylum law in the past, that we do not erode completely individual assessment for asylum seekers and the geneva convention's "non-refoulement" principal (principal by which governments may not turn refugees away automatically without having their case heard or checking subjective or objective elements to genuine asylum cases).
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, the british deputy prime minister has been here this week, so it is timely to have a report centred on two of his pet subjects: regionalism and gobbledegook. my plain-speaking constituents have no time for regionalism and i doubt if they would be interested in strategic spatial impact evaluation procedures. mr guellec clearly does not pick up simple messages from ordinary voters. his fellow frenchmen rejected the eu constitution, yet it is an essential ingredient of his report. that is no surprise, for the rapporteur's own website has a whole section devoted to the constitution, including a table of key dates. the most recent key date for mr guellec is 29 october 2004, when the constitutional treaty was signed in rome. the day of the french referendum, 29 may 2005, is not even a minor detail for him. he said that territorial cohesion becomes an essential objective of the eu in the constitution. sadly for him the constitution is not an essential objective for french and dutch voters. what is territorial cohesion? the rapporteur can only tell us that the first formal attempt at a definition comes from the commission. who ever heard of such nonsense: to suggest a project and then attempt a definition? how typical of this mad european union. the rapporteur says that regions are the best qualified level to determine needs. he should visit the so-called region that i represent. the regional authority in exeter cannot possibly know what is best for gloucester, swindon or penzance, all many miles away. the ordinary people in those areas do not think so. perhaps mr guellec is not bothered what those ordinary people think, as long as he can emphasise that his beloved eu constitution strengthens the role of the regions. the only problem for him is that ordinary people in his own country do not agree with his approach. he certainly achieves cohesion in one respect, because ordinary people in all parts of the continent will be equally confused by his report, and he is equally out of touch with all of them.
mr president, the guellec report does not impress me, for three reasons. first of all, the eu has no power in the field of spatial planning, yet it presumes to chart a course for this on the back of the dead constitution. that is wrong and it shows utter contempt for the electors of europe, not least the electors of mr guellec's own country, who handsomely rejected the constitution. secondly, territorial cohesion is clearly being advanced for the political objective of bypassing and downgrading the entity of the nation–state. it aims for territorial integration. there are obvious political and constitutional issues here, which are perhaps more obvious to me, given where i come from, than to some others. i do not want my part of the united kingdom, northern ireland, treated instead as part of the territorial whole of the island of ireland. that would offend and it would defy the settled political will of northern ireland's people. the eu must act within the constraints and parameters of that reality. thirdly, within the context of cohesion funding, talk of territorial cohesion in my region is somewhat ironic, since we were excluded from cohesion funding from its inception, while our neighbour in the irish republic was included. the real route to cohesion was equality of access to funding, but that was denied to northern ireland, while the south of ireland benefited to the tune of over eur 2 billion for its infrastructure. thus, it is so much nonsense to now talk grandly about securing equality of treatment between territories. the eu had its chance to give such equality of funding to northern ireland for necessary infrastructure but it failed, by making national statistics instead of regional need the threshold for access.
mr president, i know i have one minute, and you would not let me go over it, would you? you just conspire against me, as the previous president did, to engage in some kind of institutional bullying. but we shall leave that to one side. i am glad of the opportunity to place on record the deep resentment of my constituents in the east midlands at the attempts by brussels – aided, let it be said, by a supine british government – to divide england by imposing artificial regions. it will divide the english nation and undermine our nationality. well, i have news for you: it will not work because the people in, for example, derby, in the east midlands, have no special affinity with the people of lincolnshire. the regions are artificial. they are spurious. they have no identity. they will not work either because the english people do not want them. they voted against in the north-east by 90% in the one opportunity they had, and they will do so elsewhere. we english are very tolerant. we are prepared to subsidise the welsh, the scots and most of the nations here. we do it with resignation. we will not tolerate being robbed of our nationality and our identity. so carry on with your policy. carry on trying to divide us, because what you will do is inflame the english and english nationalism and we will assert ourselves and we will insist on governing ourselves again.
mr president, the european parliament showed its desire to give special assistance to remote and peripheral regions when it voted in july on a major package of cohesion policy measures. however, in july, the committee on regional development adopted the own-initiative report drawn up by mr sérgio marques, in response to two commission papers on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions. the report called for support for the outermost regions and for areas that are important to their development: agriculture, fisheries, competition and state aids, enterprise policies, services of general interest and services of general economic interest, taxation, customs measures, environment, energy, research, technological development, vocational training, transport, trans-european networks, new information and communication technologies. it is to public transport that i would like to turn. public transport is important to all our local communities, and in scotland ferries provide an essential service for some of the european union's most peripheral and vulnerable communities. tomorrow i will be welcoming to the european parliament a delegation from the calmac trade unions, who will be meeting the transport commissioner. as i said yesterday, presently these ferry services are being put out to tender in communities where they are the sole mode of transport connecting island communities to the mainland. under the latest commission proposals for land transport public service obligations, public administrations will be given flexibility over tendering processes and will be able to award certain services to in-house operators directly. why are lifeline ferries being treated differently from trains, trams and metros? there are no trains, trams and metros in scotland's peripheral, island communities. given the commission's general position on the needs of the outermost regions, its position here would appear to be contradictory. i urge the commission to clarify its position. lifeline ferry services are too important to be ignored.
madam president, i too welcome the commission statement, particularly as far as the optical radiation directive is concerned. i am delighted that the commission is joining with us in parliament to call for natural radiation to be taken out, and for the temporary workers directive to be looked at. i have always felt that a one-size-fits-all approach does not work. i hope that the commission might look again at another physical agents directive, the electromagnetic fields directive, and how it will affect mri scanners, in terms of bringing in static magnetic fields. we need health and safety legislation, yes; but only when it is necessary at eu level and when it cannot be done at member state level. for instance i would like to see a specific directive on needlestick injuries. i would like, under article 13, to see a specific directive on age and on disability. nevertheless i welcome what the commission is saying. there is unnecessary regulation and, speaking as a pro-european, i think it does us more harm than good.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam president, the first question is that we are naturally happy to take up all the suggestions, including those which are now being made in this sitting. i can inform you that i have invited the member states, the business associations, the consumer associations, the trade unions and all the citizens of europe to submit their proposals to us. the commission has already received many hundreds of proposals, some of them very detailed and very precise. i notice that this is a project that has really broad support. i would like to say that i have tried to explain this to mrs frassoni. it seems to me that this is a matter of political trust. i told you: the aim of the operation is not - i emphasize this again - to change the quality of the aquis in any place. the aim of the initiative is not to deregulate in the spirit of market-oriented ideologues, but to make the existing legislation simpler, more transparent and more user-friendly. i'm going to repeat something i've said many times in your presence: the balance between growth and employment, social cohesion and sustainable development is the european model in its own right. we shall of course stick to that. i think that is a very good point. nothing will happen that you fear. it is not a question of weakening any standards we have already achieved. i can say to mrs grossetête that parliament's rights of participation are of course fully respected. i think that the simplification project will even enable parliament to exercise rights which it was not originally able to exercise in the legislative process, because we are also bringing back legislation which was adopted at a time when there was no codecision in these areas at all. i think that what we are doing here is strengthening the rights of parliamentary participation. the commission is of course prepared to report to all committees on what is happening. as far as impact assessment is concerned, this is a very difficult question. i said something about that. the commission has decided not to make any further proposals without a full estimate of the consequential costs. this is an internal commission procedure. however, we will include the results of this impact assessment in future proposals. i personally am very much of the opinion that if the legislators make substantial changes to the commission proposal - as they should - then of course further impact assessment is necessary. but that's for you to decide. you are the legislator, not the commission! when you say that you can adopt a legislative measure without an impact assessment, that is your decision and your responsibility. but my advice is that we should look together for a way of finding a generally accepted method of impact assessment. i think we can be quite proud that the impact assessment developed by the commission has an extremely good international reputation. i don't think you'll find anything better in the public realm. but it can still be improved. i'm sure we can work together on that. i agree with you, mrs grossetête, that it is not necessarily a question of less legislation, but of better legislation in the future. again, these are two different things. one is the great simplification project. this in fact leads to a significant reduction in the volume of the aquis - the volume, not the quality. the other project, the new way we draft laws, actually leads to a significant increase in quality and enables legislators - that is, you as members of the european parliament - to make a very precise cost-benefit calculation for each decision.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement. we too are in favour of the scrapping of needless or redundant laws, but we do have some concerns, partly fed by the way president barroso came out shooting from the hip in the financial times on the subject of deregulation. the main concern for me is the persistent rumour, just repeated by mrs lynne, that either now or in the near future the commission will include the withdrawal of the directive on temporary agency work. will you agree with me, commissioner, that if that happened it would be a major blow to attempts to balance flexibility and security and would damage the balanced pursuit of lisbon? can you assure us that the commission is not considering the withdrawal of the directive on temporary agency workers?
the commission's vice-president madam president, i would like to reply to mrs stihler that charter flights are also covered by regulation 261/2004. the airlines operating such flights are therefore naturally obliged to comply with the provisions of the regulation. according to your information, this is a case of prolonged delay caused by an incomplete crew, and therefore not a denial of boarding. in this case, there is no financial compensation as for denied boarding and cancellations. however, airlines are of course obliged to provide appropriate assistance - drinks, meals, means of communication, hotel room where appropriate - in order to minimise the discomfort experienced by passengers. this assistance is compulsory in the event of denied boarding, prolonged delay and cancellation, even in the event of force majeure. as regards financial compensation, airlines are exempted from it only for cancellations and denied boarding imposed by exceptional circumstances. so, can an incomplete crew be considered an exceptional circumstance? this case must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of all factual aspects, including the organisation of replacement and the availability of on-site reserve crews. madam president, you will understand that, without all these details, the commission cannot make a final judgment. however, on the basis of article 16 (2) of the regulation, passengers can now turn, if necessary, to national control bodies, which are specifically empowered to deal with complaints and disputes with airlines. i can answer that, given that the best of regulations cannot cover all the particular situations and that these situations require a case-by-case assessment on the basis of all the elements. in this case, it would be necessary to check whether replacement staff were available at the local airport for a return flight or whether organisational arrangements were in place. but, as i said, the passengers concerned now have the possibility of using the national procedure for complaints.
it is an interesting case. i find it fascinating that when air stewardesses have colds and cannot travel on an airline there must be immediate backup to cover staff shortages in those circumstances. so i wonder whether in this case the systems were just not in place. only today another scottish constituent, a mr duncan thorpe, raised the question as to whether a delay of five hours or more entitles him to compensation. according to the europa website, where there is a delay of five hours or more the airline must offer to refund the ticket. yet the company that replied to my constituent stated, and i quote: 'regulation (ec) no 261/2004 does not impose any obligation on carriers to offer or pay compensation when passengers are delayed'. can the commission outline how it is monitoring the successful implementation of this directive? thank you for your consideration, madam president: it is an important matter.
commissioner, like the questioner i too have received queries from my constituents. this is an area that is extremely badly understood by the public. it is one of the great benefits of europe which we have recently brought to the public and we should publicise it much better. i am not suggesting a new directive, but could the 25 commission information offices in the 25 national capitals not put the details on their websites and print a one-page leaflet providing the public with real information on their rights, which may be obscured by the airlines?
member of the commission. there was no further question there for me to respond to.
commissioner, will you look at the speech made yesterday by the british chancellor of the exchequer in which he lauded various achievements over recent years in developing parts of the united kingdom? the one thing common to all the examples he gave was that they had all been part-financed by the european regional development fund. in that context, will you use that information in your negotiations with the council to try to push up the amount of money available in the 2007-2013 financial perspective?
member of the commission. i do not agree with the honourable member. it is quite common for universities and centres of excellence to have funding from particular bodies. there is no conflict of interest when that particular university carries out a study. i do not accept that it is any different in this case. the contractor has given various assurances. i would point out to the honourable member that the camelot group, which runs the uk national lottery, is also listed as a sponsor. so salford is sponsored by both a private sector operator and an operator with a state monopoly. therefore i do not accept that they are in any way conflicting. this is going to be a factual study; it will help the commission in its deliberations; it will be put on the website; there will be a hearing in november to which all interested parties will be invited, including the honourable member. we will then reach our final decisions thereafter. this is a fact-finding exercise.
commissioner, i would like to thank you for the robustness of your response. i wonder if you would agree with me that the centre for the study of gambling in manchester is a reputable academic institution that takes no moral position on gambling, either for or against. it simply looks at the psychological roots of gambling and its economic and social impact, and does so in an independent and academic fashion.
the next item is the joint debate on:– report by georg jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/440/eec on the development of the community's railways (com(2004)0139 – c6-0001/2004 – 2004/0047(cod)) (a6-0143/2005);– report by gilles savary, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the certification of train crews operating locomotives and trains on the community’s rail network (com(2004)0142 – c6-0002/2004 – 2004/0048(cod)) (a6-0133/2005);– report by dirk sterckx, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations (com(2004)0143 – c6-0003/2004 – 2004/0049(cod)) (a6-0123/2005);and– report (a6-0171/2005) by roberts zīle, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on compensation in cases of non-compliance with contractual quality requirements for rail freight services (com(2004)0144 – c6 0004/2004 – 2004/0050(cod)).
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the first two railway packages in 2001 and 2004, the commission proposed on 3 march 2004 a new set of legislative measures commonly known as the third railway package. the objective of this third package is to complete the regulatory framework for rail at european level, to make progress in the field of interoperability and to achieve further market integration for passenger services, while expanding passenger rights. the measures also proposed to remedy the poor quality of freight services. these proposals were in line with the objectives set out in the 2001 white paper on transport policy. we had clearly stated at that meeting that the organization of rail services needed to be modernised in order to put an end to the decline and the continuing decline of rail services and to achieve a dynamic of quality rail transport. the legislative texts we are considering today also find their justification in the role played by transport in the economic growth of our continent. the lisbon strategy has given them a prominent role in this respect. i come now, mr president, to the details of the measures we are advocating. firstly, a proposal for a directive on the certification of train crew operating locomotives and trains. mr savary is the rapporteur in this case. i would simply like to remind you that the commission undertook to present this text in the context of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the second railway package. the new text, drawn up in consultation with the industry and the social partners, provides a mechanism to better define competences and responsibilities for the training and assessment and recognition of qualifications of train drivers and safety staff. a driver must have a licence in his possession which recognises his general knowledge and which is valid throughout the community. this licence must be supplemented by a certificate issued by the railway undertaking employing the licence holder. the company shall specify the training specific to the line operated, the equipment used and the operational and safety procedures specific to the company. that is all for the first proposal for a directive. the second proposal is to amend the current directive on the opening of the railway transport market. the rapporteur is mr jarzembowski. i would remind you that it concerns the opening up of international passenger transport services to competition. the proposal is in line with a request made by parliament to the commission during the conciliation on the second railway package, when it wished to be given specific proposals on the opening up of rail passenger services. in concrete terms, the commission proposes that as from 1 january 2010, railway undertakings which have the necessary licence and safety certificate may operate international services throughout the community. facilitating new business initiatives will help to breathe new life into this sector. in order to create realistic economic conditions for the development of these services, the commission considers that cabotage should also be allowed. the proposal therefore provides for the possibility of picking up and dropping off passengers along an international route, including between two stations located in the same member state, while protecting the balance of public service contracts. i particularly want this to be well-linked with the revised proposal for the regulation on public transport services, which the commission adopted in june 2005. i come now to the third element of the package: the proposal on passengers' rights and obligations, which complements the proposal to open up the market for passenger transport services. before going into the details of this proposal, i would remind you that the community acquis on passenger protection has so far been limited to air transport. in the objectives set out in the white paper, the commission wanted to put the user at the heart of all modes of transport. the commission therefore considered it necessary to extend rail passenger rights as a counterpart to the current market opening policy. the protection of rail passengers is an important instrument for the recovery and revitalisation of the railway. the report in question is that of mr sterckx. i shall confine myself to mentioning a few of the features of this proposal, starting with the free and non-discriminatory assistance to passengers with reduced mobility, which guarantees accessibility to trains. there is a demand from passengers with reduced mobility who would like to have more easily accessible transport that they could use without assistance. where such accessibility is not sufficiently ensured, the railway company and the station manager will be obliged to offer appropriate assistance in case of demand. second element of our third proposal: the possibility for international travellers to obtain information on the main destinations in europe and direct tickets. the passenger thus requests a single direct ticket when he has to cross the borders of several member states. the commission is asking in particular for the possibility of obtaining integrated tickets for destinations beyond the network of the railway company providing the ticket. this is the possibility of obtaining, for example, a ticket to go from lyon, france, to graz, austria. in a recent letter to the commission, a passenger complained that a local operator had refused to issue such a ticket. the third element of the proposal is a modern civil liability system, comparable to other transport sectors and based on a compulsory insurance system. the commission is of the opinion that civil liability in the event of an accident must cover as many accidents as possible and must be accompanied by compulsory insurance, the only mechanism guaranteeing fair compensation for all the damage suffered by the passenger. the last element is immediate assistance in the event of delay, including a system of compensation and indemnity. the passenger with a ticket, which can be very expensive, should not be in a situation where the service is delayed or cancelled for a long time without any information from the service and without any support from the railway company. finally, the third railway package also aims to regulate freight services and to improve the quality of freight transport. mr zille is the rapporteur for this fourth proposal. the aim of the proposal is to introduce minimum clauses in contracts between railway undertakings and their customers, which is already considered good practice in the sector. the precise content of the quality commitments is left to the discretion of the contractors. the proposed text aims to ensure that quality factors are systematically taken into account. improving the quality of rail freight transport is an essential condition for confirming the dynamism which seems to be regaining. in conclusion, i would like to touch on a key point in the reading of the third railway package. as with previous legislative proposals in the railway field, the concept of 'package' is very important to the commission. it would be unfortunate to jeopardize the success of the third package by dividing it up, by separating the elements. i would therefore like to stress our support for the position of the committee on transport and tourism, which advocates maintaining the logic of the package. the commission can also support your committee on transport's proposal to coordinate the reading of the railway package with that of the new proposal for a regulation on public service obligations. it is obviously desirable to achieve a good articulation between the two proposals, which is in favour of such a coordinated reading. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank your rapporteurs for the thorough work they have done on our proposals. i will of course listen to them very carefully in this debate, but also to all the speakers, convinced that with this third railway package we can really rebalance the use of transport in europe. we all know - and the soaring oil prices remind us if we need to - that we must find alternatives, especially for long-distance transport: rail, river and sea alternatives. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of rail transport, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the future of rail transport. that is why i attach great importance to this debate, mr president, and i thank parliament in advance for its active participation, which is very valuable to me.
thank you, mr barrot. as you said, this is a very important debate. i should like to remind the house of the famous remark made by the former british foreign secretary, ernest bevin, in about 1945. he said: 'my idea of europe is to go down to victoria station in london and buy a ticket to anywhere i damn well like'.
mr president, this report proposes the harmonisation of rail passenger rights and compensation liabilities throughout the european union. such legislation faces the opposition of national railway companies who know they will suffer increased administrative burdens, the cost of which will be passed on to passengers. mr sterckx says that we should not tinker with international agreements which are already satisfactory. he says that we must not take over the role of railway company marketing managers. above all, he says that the system must benefit passengers. only an eu politician could say all that and then propose extending the scope of legislation. there is already a perfectly good international agreement in place between 42 nations, including many non-eu countries, to facilitate cross-border railway travel. in 2002 international railway companies signed a voluntary charter containing quality standards for rail passenger services – the cotif convention. we cannot legislate, for example, for french, german and british railways. they all operate under very different conditions. national governments, in conjunction with railway operators, should decide what regulation is appropriate, not the european union. to be fair, the commission only wanted regulation to cover cross-border rail travel, but mr sterckx goes further by proposing regulation for in-country domestic rail travel. in another report from the committee on transport and tourism concerning the certification of train crews, the rapporteur, mr savary, calls for the psychological testing of train crews. may i suggest that psychological testing be extended to the rapporteurs of this parliament? perhaps a simple word association test would be useful. if in response rapporteurs used the words 'integration', 'harmonisation' or 'regulation', they should be immediately disqualified from holding office. this might possibly cut down the amount of this kind of nonsense, but not, i suspect, until we have first legislated for harmonised and integrated psychology tests.
before the commissioner replies, a number of colleagues have made reference to the importance of the legislation and the timing of this debate. one of my responsibilities as vice-president is to cover cosac, the committee of national parliaments of the european union. that committee chose the third railway package, some months ago, as the basis for a subsidiarity test; in other words, the way in which legislation would be applied by the national legislative bodies. it recognises the importance of this.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i agree with what you have just said. we have chosen the third railway package to test subsidiarity, that is to say, the way in which legislation is applied by national parliaments. that is the importance we attach to this text. i would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their attention. i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular. i have noted from what mr savary said that the text for which he is rapporteur sends a strong signal and that it contains a good example of bilateral agreements between branches. i also noted mr sterckx's idea that passenger rights are likely to inspire confidence in rail users. i thank mr zīle for seeking an acceptable compromise and i want to say to mr jarzembowski that i appreciate his insistence that competition should facilitate the transfer from road to rail, since that is what we want to achieve. i will try to answer that, mr president, without going into all the details. i would like to remind you in advance, since the question has been put to me, that the first railway package has been transposed by all but two member states for certain directives. the commission has also initiated infringement proceedings against the member states concerned. for the second package, the commission is following very closely the transposition process into national law. i would remind you that the main deadline for transposition is may 2006, except for the opening of the domestic freight market where it is set at the end of december 2005. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's view of the work of parliament and the committee on transport and tourism. i thank mr costa and all the members of the committee on transport for the thorough work they have done. the interest of a package is to make it possible to relate the different texts to each other in order to achieve a comprehensive and balanced reform, which allows both an opening of markets that is beneficial for consumers and the establishment of a regulatory framework that ensures the safety and rights of citizens. i believe that all of this, both competition and the regulatory framework, will enable us to reverse the trend in favour of rail, as president costa has stressed. most of the proposed amendments improve the quality of legislative proposals. some of the amendments raise a few problems. i am, however, convinced that pragmatic solutions to these questions will be found in the course of this legislative process. i shall begin with the proposal for a regulation on the quality of freight. the commission will of course carefully examine the final position of parliament and the council in order to draw the necessary conclusions. however, i must say clearly the value of this text because it must be admitted that the situation in the rail freight transport sector has changed little since the commission's proposal in march 2004. the punctuality of international combined rail-road transport remains insufficient: 35% of trains were late in 2005. in addition, according to the european rail sector, in conventional rail transport, less than one contract in three contains a quality clause providing for compensation in the event of delay. we have heard it said here and there: but why did the commission propose this system on the quality of freight? the simple fact that we raised the issue has already had a positive effect on the sector. in recent months, framework agreements have been negotiated between customer associations and certain railway undertakings. these negotiations focused on quality commitments. of course, i will take note of what parliament and the council decide and if they confirm their opposition to the choice of the legislative instrument, it will be necessary to ask the actors to find other ways and means to achieve the objective shared by the three institutions, which is to improve the quality of international rail freight services. this is the way to get a transfer from the road to the railway. that is the first point and i thank mr zīle again. as regards the other proposals, the commission's position is as follows in general terms and, mr president, i am forwarding to the presidency the detailed positions on each of the amendments. for the commission's position on parliament's amendments: see annex. i come now to mr savary's report on the directive on the certification of train drivers. most of the amendments seem to us to be in the right direction. they are, to put it very simply, a quality piece of work. this directive sends a social signal to all railway workers to feel involved in the rehabilitation of this mode of transport. there are, however, a few amendments which present certain difficulties. this is the case with the financing of training or the obligation to reimburse in some cases, which gives rise to certain reservations on our part because of the interference with labour law, market flexibility and the right to mobility. this is also the case with the temporary derogation possibilities for domestic drivers. your committee proposes that states may temporarily derogate from the rules applicable to domestic drivers. the commission considers that such derogations for entire countries raise real questions and is therefore not in favour of them. on the social side, we will have two classes of drivers, although these categories are not waterproof in practice. it could be a career problem. and then on the economic side, it is the obligation for the states to maintain two different legislations, two systems of accreditation, of recognition of trainers. in short, the question is whether this duality will not lead to additional costs. all this, mr savary, does not detract from the quality of the work done. there are also provisions for other staff, which i think is legitimate. these are the on-board staff who are not drivers but who participate in tasks related to rail transport. your proposal is in line with the commission's. it is simply necessary to ensure that the annex on comitology is well defined so as not to raise any legal problems. the second problem is that the driver may not comply with certain conditions once the basic licence and the harmonised supplementary certificate have been obtained. there are undoubtedly some reformulations which would be desirable to take into account the rights and duties of drivers and those of the employer and the competent authority. finally, there is the problem of periodic checks. the commission proposes to refer to the safety management system that each railway undertaking must put in place. a balance must be struck between the requirements to be included in the instrument and those to be annexed. i apologize, mr president, at this late hour for bringing a number of very technical points to the table, but this is due to the quality of the work of the committee on transport. that is all for this text on the driving licence which, as i have seen this evening, is receiving very broad support in parliament. i come now to the third report, the one on the proposal to open up the market for international rail passenger services. the commission appreciates mr jarzembowski's report and supports the idea - which has been raised by several members - of linking this proposal to our amended proposal on public services in land transport. nevertheless, mr jarzembowski, we have reservations about the amendments which anticipate the date of opening for international passenger services from 2010 to 2008. the commission considers that 2010 is a more appropriate date as it is only then that the entire required institutional and procedural framework will be in place and truly operational. there are the national safety authorities, the railway regulators, there is the work of the european railway agency. i would add that most of the international high-speed rail projects will not be completed until 2010 and that this is the infrastructure on which international passenger traffic will be concentrated in the future. moreover, the commission cannot support the opening of the domestic market for travellers in 2012 either. this proposal seems to us premature and difficult to implement in view of its great sensitivity. the commission also has difficulty accepting the amendment which introduces the possibility for member states to anticipate the opening of their market on condition of a reciprocity clause because such clauses risk being discriminatory on the basis of nationality. the commission welcomes the report by mr jarzembowski. we can accept the amendments contained in it subject to editorial changes. i am thinking in particular of extending the standard term of framework agreements for the use of railway infrastructure or of clarifying the conditions under which the rights of an open access operator could be limited if they conflict with the rights arising from a public service contract. this is a balanced approach which respects the different national situations. that is what i wanted to say about this draft directive. i now turn to mr sterckx's report on the regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in international rail transport. since march 2004, the debate on passenger rights has made great progress in our institutions. a thorough discussion is under way in the council. the civil liability regime for railway companies incorporated in the new cotif-civ agreement of 1999 should finally enter into force before the end of the year. mr sterckx, i would also like to thank you once again for your work. you have been concerned to seek to extend the scope of the regulation and have proposed to extend it to cover national services as well. i am afraid, however, that this extension is not immediately feasible. i would like to commit myself to studying this matter in greater depth, and then we could come back to it at a later stage in the light of the experience that may be gained under the application of the international travel regulation. the second point in your report is the application of the international framework cotif-civ on civil liability. the commission is prepared to respond favourably to your requests. however, the liability regime as defined by the cotif-civ does not seem to strengthen the position of passengers in the event of an accident, at least as much as the commission would like. finally, i shall stick to the two key points on which the commission would like your support. first, the obligation to provide passengers with the information they need. mr president, you mentioned this with an example: integrated tickets on the whole european network. the impact analysis on the consequences of the opening up of the international passenger services market shows that its success depends heavily on effective access to information and transport. the rail passenger in europe must have the right and the possibility to travel with a ticket which allows him to cross several borders within the union. for this right to be truly effective, railway companies, including those which are in competition, must cooperate. secondly, as regards the system of civil liability in the event of an accident, it is unquestionably necessary to achieve compulsory insurance. requiring such minimum coverage ensures fair compensation for passengers in the event of an accident while maintaining a level playing field for railway companies facing funding problems. anyway, mr. sterckx, i'd also like to thank you for what you've done for the disabled passengers. i'm personally very attached to it. what i can tell you is that if, as i hope, parliament and the council accept this proposal, i will personally be involved in ensuring that it is actually implemented, because i believe that this is a key point in giving the railways the brand image they need. i hope very much, mr president, that these texts, improved and enriched by parliament, will also be adopted by the council. i would like to thank parliament once again. we're at a double crossroads. we feel that for environmental reasons, but also for reasons of energy saving, for reasons of the risk of congestion on our motorways and roads in europe, we must encourage this modal shift, or more precisely this combination between the different modes of transport, given that rail, inland waterways and maritime transport are undoubtedly interesting solutions for longer distance traffic. on the other hand, i have heard some members of parliament speak of subsidiarity, and we agree with them. there are things which must remain within the competence of the national state. that is why we are going to carry out this subsidiarity check. however, ladies and gentlemen, we have come a long way in the railway sector. it was a very national, if not nationalistic, area which prevented the railways from taking their full place in a europe which today needs mobility across our various member states. in this respect, progress was needed and i am very grateful to parliament for allowing us to do so together, not to reduce the competences of the member states of the union, but to show that in this area and in the railway sector, the european union and the design of a policy at european level really bring a clear added value. i therefore warmly thank parliament and the committee on transport for this thorough work which will be particularly useful to us in the days ahead. (applause) i would like to thank
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at noon. written statement (rule 142)
the sitting is closed. (the sitting closed at 23.40)
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, for those of us who are opposed to the whole idea of political union, the matter is quite straightforward. we are opposed to political union with turkey just as we are opposed to political union with germany, france or italy. however, what is one to make suddenly of all these euro-fanatics – especially down there – and the cdu in germany, and even the great president chirac himself, whose ardour for the european union's endless development suddenly cools when they reach the bosphorus? some this morning will detect the whiff of hypocrisy; but it is not actually hypocrisy, it is the smell of fear: fear that public support for the whole eu project will finally collapse if turkish entry is seriously pursued. after all, the latest eurobarometer, as mr poettering will surely know, showed 70% opposition to turkish membership in france and 74% in germany. but, as usual, brussels will plough on. good! although we are against turkish accession, we shall be quite happy to watch the eu destroy itself while trying to achieve it. they say turkeys do not vote for christmas, but if the eu institutions vote for turkey, it could be a serendipitous exception to the rule.
mr president, i am sorry to see, judging from what previous speakers have said, that talks between the spd and the cdu on forming the grand coalition are not progressing so smoothly. i find it extraordinary that those who have profited so much from european integration in terms of prosperity, security and liberal democracy should now refuse to extend those prizes towards turkey. however, i agree with mr poettering that it is important for us to accentuate the union's capacity to absorb that country. i wonder whether the president-in-office could indicate whether he agrees with us that we need european settlement of the constitution before turkey and croatia are able to accede. would he also agree that the cyprus problem will remain intractable and the balkans fractious and unstable should the union refuse membership to turkey? would he say what steps the presidency will take to promote efforts to open up financial and trade relations with northern cyprus once accession negotiations have been started successfully?
mr president, there are powerful arguments both for and against turkey's proposed membership of the european union. however, i do not have time to rehearse them now. for me the key argument is one of democratic accountability. the accession of a new member state as large as turkey would dilute the influence of all other member states and would, therefore, further compromise the self-determination of the people i represent in the uk's east midlands. for this key reason i oppose turkish accession. i urge our turkish friends to consider the proposal of germany's angela merkel for a privileged partnership. this is not a second-best option; on the contrary, it would give turkey most of the benefits of full membership with few of the costs. it is, therefore, a better deal than full membership. indeed, privileged partnership is such an excellent deal that i wish it were available to my country, the united kingdom. it would be a much better option than full membership on current terms. (applausi)
mr president, last christmas the council voted for turkey when it agreed that accession negotiations could begin on 3 october 2005, provided certain conditions were met. those conditions have been met. the process of modernisation that has been taking place in turkey over the past 70 years has been massively accelerated and additional attention is now being given to human rights issues and to overcoming historic grievances. of course, there are still dissident elements within turkey that pursue separatist ambitions or wish to reorient turkey away from westernisation. care must therefore be taken to ensure that any weakening of protective state structures does not become an opportunity for radical elements to change the nature of turkey's unified and secular democracy. we have heard that the negotiations will be the most rigorous yet. natural justice and fair play should demand that turkey be treated in the same way as other candidate countries to the european union. the cyprus issue should be a matter quite separate from the candidacy of turkey, but it has become inextricably linked. the history of that island has been distorted these past 30 or so years. there have been wrongs on both sides and no justice is served by the pretence that the turks alone carry the blame. we should ask no more of turkey and the turkish cypriots in relation to the republic of cyprus than we ask of greece and the greek cypriots in relation to northern cyprus. it was the people of northern cyprus who voted in favour of the annan plan; it is the government of northern cyprus that has expressed its readiness to reopen negotiations on the basis of the un secretary-general's plan. the rejectionists are in the south. why should turkey open its ports to ships flying the flag of the republic of cyprus when the ports of northern cyprus are closed to international trade and direct international flights cannot land at ercan airport? in may 2004 the eu council promised to end the isolation of northern cyprus, but has done little about it. that is not justice. the cyprus issue must be resolved. the unification that so many of us want to see must be brought about in a manner which meets the concerns and interests of both communities on the island, not just one. i welcome the opening of negotiations with turkey. those negotiations will last for many years. commissioner rehn has correctly observed that for turkey the journey is as important as the destination. what is clear is that the prospect of turkey's accession will have a catalytic effect on the nature of the european union; the eu will have to drop its integrationist ambitions and become a looser community of sovereign nations. this will be of enormous benefit to us all.
i fully support the opening of accession negotiations with turkey this autumn. they will no doubt be long and difficult, but if agreement can be reached and if turkey meets all the necessary conditions regarding the functioning of democracy and respect for human rights including the rights of minorities then there is no reason of principle why it should not be entitled to join the european union. i reject the arguments of those who object to turkey’s membership on the ground that turkey is not “european”. that argument was settled years ago when we accepted turkey’s membership of the council of europe. opponents of turkey’s membership try to equate “european” with “christian”. yet islam has played a part in europe’s history and culture for centuries. in any case, the motto of the european union is “unity with diversity”. we are not trying to harmonise cultures but to find ways of working together whilst keeping our various identities. by reaching out to turkey we underline that the eu is not based on an exclusive european identity, but of an inclusive one.
either the parliament continues to engage with such forces of progress as exist in turkey, or we can throw away all leverage we have. it grieves me that the parliament has today thrown a series of unnecessary inconsistencies into our report. turkish recognition of cyprus, respect for human rights, better treatment of the kurds, recognition of the armenian genocide and many other issues must all be dealt with, as turkey is currently far from any acceptable standards. the only way to raise such standards is to continue dialogue.
in writing. i regret that shortsighted and narrow views won the day over the turkish protocol. the delay in voting on this is setback but should not fundamentally alter turkey's progress towards membership of the european union. the motion for resolution which was adopted shows acceptance that the question is not if turkey will join but when and under what conditions.
in writing. as an opponent of non-european turkey joining the eu, i have today voted against the resolution endorsing the opening of negotiations with this asian state. i believe it is a shameless agenda of expansionism which drives the eu in wanting to encompass turkey. moreover, turkey's duplicity over cyprus makes it unworthy of membership. on one hand it disingenuously accepts a protocol apparently accepting cyprus, but at the same time issues a declaration disavowing any such recognition. when added to its cruel history and continuing persecution of christians, it is clear that turkey is one country and culture that we can well do without.
in writing. the motion on the opening of negotiations with turkey is to be welcomed. however, i hope that in these negotiations religious freedom will be highlighted. the right for someone to freely express their religious belief is essential in any democratic society. the first step forum, an ngo committed to religious freedom, will be visiting turkey in the next few weeks. i hope that the commission will listen to the outcomes of the delegation's visit.
in writing. this report is an essential element of the financial services industry, bringing together internationally agreed banking rules. the labour group has supported the work undertaken by the rapporteur and services of parliament to ensure that the european parliament maintains its legal/political powers. to this effect, the eplp can support the measures introduced to enable the right of call-back and sunset clauses contained within this directive, which is not an imposition on national powers.
in writing. i welcome this report which if passed into legislation and properly enforced should prevent an enron type scandal taking place in europe and reduce the likliehood in europe of future parlamat type situations.
in writing. i voted for the savary report as a london mep having had discussion with rail trade unionists as the report creates a system of certificates for train crews to show they meet professional, medial and linguistic standards for those train drivers working across borders. with sufficient training such an advance would protect passengers in health and safety terms on rail journeys across eu countries.
in writing. this report is part of a broader package of measures which seek to improve rail and freight transport across europe. international rail travel within europe is growing in importance as an environmentally-sound alternative to air travel. i therefore welcome this report as a means to provide clarity and workability for business whilst protecting the interests of the millions of people across europe who depend on rail travel both for work and leisure. this report needs to be seen in the context of the wider package however: over the coming months we must work to ensure that these new laws strike an overall balance between the needs of rail users and the interests of the service providers.
in writing. i am voting for the sterckx report because i believe that, as a london mep and representing one of the biggest transport hubs anywhere in the world, that passengers' rights and obligations have not been clearly set out. i believe that passengers' rights should not only apply to international rail passengers, but also to national ones. i believe that the minimum compensation guidelines set out by the committee for unacceptable delays are broadly correct. i believe strongly that passengers who hold season tickets and encounter repeated delays or cancellations should receive compensation in the form of free journeys, price reductions or an extension of the period of validity of a season ticket.
in writing. passenger rights are essential no matter which mode of transport is used. the rights of rail passengers to compensation is a step forward and i welcome the sterckx report. however, in light of recent air passenger rights legislation and its application, there is a need to be clear what rights passengers have and the compensation which they are entitled to. it is no use introducing legislation which is then not properly implemented. if we are going to be true to our constituents we require well implemented rules.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, thank you for this opportunity to address parliament today on this important and timely issue. the developments we have seen in the oil market over the past few years raise both important issues and, at present, a number of key issues for the european union. sustained high oil prices represent a significant risk to global economic growth and are a particularly damaging aspect for poorer countries. access to reliable and affordable supplies of oil is vital for the european union and the wider global economy. in 2003, oil products comprised 43% of total energy consumption in the european union. the importance of this issue was highlighted by the recent informal ecofin meeting in manchester, in the united kingdom, which, when discussing the current economic situation, focused in particular on the impact of oil prices. however, as has been well documented elsewhere, the current situation is different from previous periods of high oil prices. in real terms, current price levels are lower than the peaks seen in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and the pace of the rise in prices has been slower. this reflects the fact that very strong, and unexpected, global oil demand growth, rather than supply shock, has been the driving force behind higher prices. because of this increased demand, global production and refining capacity has become very tight. so what can be done to help improve present market conditions? oil is a global issue and can only be solved by global action. both oil producing and oil consuming nations have shared interests and responsibilities in delivering more stable oil prices that enable sustainable economic growth. consumer and producer countries and international organisations need to work together to help make international oil markets function more effectively, both on the demand and on the supply side. open, transparent and competitive oil prices and oil markets are the most effective mechanism for delivering reliable oil supplies at those more stable prices. the reserves are there to meet future demand. the world is not yet running out of oil or gas any time soon. however, action is needed to ensure that reserves are turned into actual supplies. greater investment is needed in both production and refining capability. a climate more conducive to investment, with open markets, transparent business practices and stable regulatory frameworks, is required throughout the international oil sector. energy conservation and efficiency, and technology and innovation are also important and have a role to play. at gleneagles, g8 heads of government published a plan of action on these issues in addressing climate change, but progress in these areas can also do much to enhance energy security. ultimately, market mechanisms will ration the remaining supplies of oil and provide an incentive for a shift to alternative sources of energy, but appropriate action can be taken in support of that and to promote energy efficiency. energy efficiency is rightly at the top of the european union energy policy agenda at present. improving energy efficiency within the european union is the most cost-effective means of simultaneously reducing energy demand – to promote security of supply and improve the competitiveness of european business – and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. much has already been achieved by the european union, it is right to acknowledge that in this sphere, with a range of regulatory and voluntary measures now in place, but it is clear that whilst significant potential for further improvements in energy efficiency remains, there are also barriers to now realising that potential. that is why member states have welcomed the high priority that commissioner piebalgs has attached to making further progress and the recent publication of the green paper on energy efficiency, entitled 'doing more with less'. that green paper is currently stimulating considerable and – i would suggest – welcome discussion and debate as to how barriers can be overcome in order to deliver significant energy savings by 2020. it is also why the united kingdom presidency will strive to secure a second reading agreement between council and parliament on the energy end-use efficiency directive, which will set a framework and targets for energy efficiency savings in the european union over the coming years. the european union has introduced the biofuels directive to encourage the development of alternative renewable fuels for transport. member states have agreed to set indicative targets for biofuels sales in 2005 and for 2010 to help reduce european union dependence on fossil fuels. member states across the union have introduced policies such as reductions in fuel duty and these have stimulated rapidly growing biofuels sales. fuel cells and hydrogen offer significant potential in the longer term, with many considering hydrogen fuel cells to be the ultimate replacement for oil and the internal combustion engine. the european hydrogen and fuel cell technology platform has carried out sterling and important work in preparing a strategic research agenda and a deployment strategy for fuel cells and hydrogen. this work will, in turn, influence the commission in determining priorities for funding under the seventh framework programme. the commission is currently soliciting industry support for a joint technology initiative in this area to allow major hydrogen demonstration projects to be undertaken here within the european union. greater market transparency is also needed. improved data on global oil demand, supply and stocks is essential for better informed market decisions. to this end, european union members are contributing data to the joint oil data initiative, due to be launched in riyadh later this year. the european commission is also currently working on the improvement of data, notably for oil stocks for europe. lack of transparency over the world’s oil reserves and plans for their development also undermine stability and cause uncertainty. greater clarity and consistency is needed in worldwide reporting of reserves. increased dialogue and understanding between consumers and producers is, frankly, also important. the european union now has a formal dialogue with opec, enabling an exchange of views on energy issues of common interest. the first meeting in june agreed four themes for enhancing cooperation between the european union and opec. these were: oil market developments, in both the short and medium-to-long terms; energy policies; energy technologies; and energy-related multilateral issues. discussions on these themes will be developed through workshops and other meetings, helping to inform future dialogue meetings. in the first instance, a round table on oil market developments will take place on 21 november, concentrating on investment needs along the oil supply chain. the european union is also currently engaged in dialogues with norway, russia, china and india. the energy dialogue with russia is a good example of effective cooperation between the european union and the russian federation on an issue of great importance to their overall relationship. the basic idea behind the dialogue is a simple balancing of interests: russia requires european investment to develop its energy resources, whilst europe needs secure, long-term access to russian oil and gas. whilst given their rapidly growing need for oil and gas supplies to fuel growth, it is crucial for the european union, in achieving both its energy security and climate change objectives, that we engage in constructive dialogue and practical cooperation with the emerging economies of both china and india. finally, i should also say something today about the response to the impact of hurricane katrina on the oil market, and the part played in this by the european union. the international energy agency called on its member states to release 2 million barrels of oil a day over 30 days. although it is many years since the international energy agency’s response measures have been tested, the organisation was able very quickly to reach a view that the disruption to the world markets was large enough to justify releasing stocks, and to reach agreement with its member states that stocks should be released. the iea proceeds by unanimity. this agreement was a remarkable achievement and a tribute to all those concerned. it demonstrates the merits of the iea’s multilateral approach and the need for such an approach when dealing with the global oil market of today. not all european union member states are members of the iea. however, the eu oil supply group met to allow all member states to review their intended response and give those who are not members of the iea an opportunity to contribute to that broader discussion. the iea governing board, at its meeting on 15 september, reviewed the contributions of its member states to the release of stocks. it also decided that no further action was immediately necessary and that the position could be reviewed again at the end of this month or in early october to see if any further action is needed. the release of stocks has improved the supply situation and had a calming effect on the market and on prices. it was clearly the right thing to do, and done to the right timetable. eu member states, as well as taking part in the release of stocks, were able to increase gasoline exports to the united states, while ensuring that european union markets remained supplied without any domestic shortages. given the current climate, this debate is extremely timely. the european union is already making an important contribution to improving conditions in the oil market, both in the short and medium-to-long terms, but there is a range of challenges ahead. i would now take the opportunity to invite others to contribute their thoughts to that future work. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is highly concerned about the current situation in the oil market, characterised by a strong rise in prices. the underlying cause for these high prices is the increasingly tight balance between supply and demand, mainly due to a strong growth in the demand for oil over the last years, particularly in the united states and china, and, as a result, the current significant lack of spare crude production and refining capacities. in fact, in 2004, there was the largest worldwide increase in oil demand ever. in such circumstances – where there is limited spare capacity – specific events, such as the war in iraq and hurricane katrina, fuel speculation, pushing prices ever higher. because these high prices are beginning to have a significant negative impact on the wellbeing of our citizens, particularly the most vulnerable, and upon our economy, the commission as well as the member states must focus its efforts on this challenge. whilst, of course, the commission alone cannot solve this problem, i believe that it can make a significant contribution towards bringing prices to more reasonable levels. this is essential for eu citizens, but also for the vulnerable populations in developing countries for whom the impact is ever more devastating. following in-depth debates within the college and with the full support of my colleagues, and in particular president barroso, i have recently presented a five-point plan of measures that the commission is already taking, and which will now be accelerated to deal with this challenge. our first action must be to save energy and to reduce demand. since i took office i have made this my first priority. the commission has already adopted a green paper on energy efficiency in june 2005, which identifies the potential for europe to save as much as 20% of its existing energy use in a cost-effective manner. existing legislation, when fully implemented, could achieve some 10% energy savings. the commission is therefore taking measures to accelerate a european action plan on energy efficiency which will follow up the green paper with a series of concrete measures to achieve the 20% potential; increasing pressure for the full and rapid implementation of the new buildings directive, and pushing strongly for an agreement on the proposal for an energy services directive. however, for europe alone to save energy will not provide an answer. the real challenge is to use the good example developed in europe to push for energy policies abroad that also focus on constraining demand rather than simply increasing the supply of oil and gas. in this context, the european example can illustrate how increased energy efficiency can reduce production costs. i am making this my priority in my bilateral contacts with other major energy-consuming nations and through the international energy agency. at the same time, we are sensitive to the specific situation of the heavily oil-dependent and vulnerable developing countries. our second action must be to increase europe's use of alternative forms of energy. the most logical response to high oil prices is to switch to using alternative, competitive and, wherever possible, more environmentally friendly energy sources. for instance, the energy potential of biomass in the eu needs to be developed. a biomass action plan will be tabled before the end of the year. we should also boost research on wind, wave and solar energy, hydrogen – in particular with respect to transport – and on clean coal and carbon sequestration, and i shall be arguing for proper funding of this in the seventh framework programme. the proper implementation of the biofuels directive can also be fruitful in this sense. finally, before the end of 2005, the commission will present a communication on financial support schemes for renewable energy sources. furthermore, we should work actively to build global alliances to explore more viable use of renewable energy sources, especially in the developing world. thirdly, we must increase the transparency and predictability of the oil markets. the lack of transparency on world oil markets facilitates speculation and inhibits investment in the oil sector. the commission will pursue several actions to address this situation, such as accelerating the creation of a european energy market observation system within the commission. the aim of this observation system would be to provide reliable information to facilitate investments of private operators in the energy sector, as well as to improve decision-taking by policy makers. the commission will also speed up measures to make its services able to publish data on the level of european oil stocks on a more regular basis. fourthly, we must increase the supply of oil and gas. whilst priority must be given to reducing demand and switching from oil, it would be wrong not to recognise the fact that the world will need more oil and more refining capacity. to this end, the commission will strengthen producer-consumer dialogue with oil-producing countries, including opec. this dialogue was already initiated this spring and on sunday, 18 september, i met the president of the opec conference, mr sheikh fahad al sabah, in vienna. i conveyed to him our concerns about the current oil situation, as well as the expected cooperation from opec. in this respect, let me inform you that opec has committed to help to stabilise the international oil market and to contribute to bringing oil prices back to sustainable levels. in that meeting opec emphasised the need for investment along the entire oil-supply chain and, in particular, it pointed out the insufficient refining capacity in the oil market. opec also declared that it is looking forward to getting more opportunities to invest in the european oil downstream sector. on the commission side, we conveyed to opec our concerns about the fact that current insufficient spare capacity contributes to facilitating speculative movements on the international level and creates additional pressure on the oil market. other dialogues with important oil-producing countries – like russia, norway and the persian gulf countries – with the oil and gas industry and with the main oil-consuming countries in the world – like china, india and the united states – will also be continued. a 'china-eu action plan on energy efficiency and renewable energies' has recently been set up. finally, i will be meeting shortly with executives from the major oil companies, as i consider it very important that oil companies behave in the most responsible manner given this situation. in particular, i will insist on the need for more investment by them, and to determine which additional measures can be taken to remove bottlenecks preventing further investment, particularly in refining capacity. fifthly, we must react effectively to emergency situations with respect to oil stocks. in this context, the commission has supported the proposal of the international energy agency on 2 september for increasing oil supply by 2 million barrels per day over a period of 30 days. while most of this international collective effort will initially consist of releasing security oil stocks in the international market, the commission strongly advocates encouraging energy-saving behaviour, which may lead, if needed, to the use of demand restriction measures by member states if further actions are required. this is particularly true if the loss in supply is finally expected to persist for several months. as you may know, under eu law, all member states must keep emergency oil stocks equivalent to 90 days of normal consumption, to be used in the event of short-term physical supply disruptions. while the eu has security oil stocks, it has never used them since it has no legal means to do so. europe needs to play its own role, as not all eu member states are members of the international energy agency. in this respect, the commission has already started convening the community's oil supply group on a regular basis in order to discuss oil prices, the emergency measures taken by member states and more efficient ways of coordinating emergency measures at community level. recent events show the clear need for a mechanism that assists in coordinating the use of oil stocks in the european union. the commission is now considering how best this can be done, and will discuss this with all stakeholders at a new fossil fuel forum i have established, that will meet for the first time in berlin in october. i should note that in developing such a proposal i shall pay careful attention to the view taken by the european parliament on the previous commission proposal on this matter. as a final comment, i should note that the commission does not believe that the best reaction to high oil prices is lowering taxes to compensate. this only encourages consumers to continue to consume. the ministers at the last informal ecofin meeting have clearly agreed that distortionary fiscal and other policy interventions that prevent the necessary adjustment should be avoided. it is a fact that uncoordinated fiscal reductions can have a distorting effect on competition in the internal market. in conclusion, the commission has been very active in proposing measures for remedying the situation. it will be a success only if all concerned – european institutions, industry, third countries and international organisations – work together. i am determined, therefore, to use the balanced energy policy model developed in europe as a model for more international change, and to demonstrate our commitment to helping vulnerable populations both in the eu and in developing countries. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, minister, commissioner, i would like to start by commending the commissioner for his measured approach to this situation and to express in general terms support for the approach he is taking. let us not over-react in haste to a situation that is changing as we speak; prices are moderating to some extent and we should let the market work. if there are problems that should be specifically addressed, for example if there are concerns over the poor and vulnerable and disadvantaged, then we should use alternative social measures to assist them and not fall for the short-term fix of cutting tax. the fundamentals of our situation remain unchanged: the eu is heavily dependent on oil and heavily dependent on imports of oil. we should seek to reduce that dependency through measures of efficiency, conservation, substitution and new technologies. there is an important principle that taxes should remain set by member states. this should not be surrendered in favour of the ephemera of an eu-wide tax system. it is also important to remember that in the road transport sector by far the largest element of the price of fuel is taxation. therefore, to those who are concerned about the windfall profits of oil companies, i would say perhaps we should be more concerned about the windfall profits of finance ministers or the tax man. finally, i wonder whether in addition to looking at the transport sector and roads, we should be thinking again about the aviation sector, to see whether we could find international agreement on achieving efficiencies and conservation of fuel in that sector. at the moment it is by its very nature untaxed.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i welcome the emphasis that has been given this afternoon to the demand aspects of the oil problem. it would be easier for us to focus on the supply side and the difficulties caused by hurricane katrina, but if we did that we would just be applying a sticking plaster, when what we really need is major surgery. at the bottom of the problem is europe's over-dependence on oil. with a third of eu oil being imported from russia and a quarter from the middle east – and those proportions are rising – we face a structural problem which goes far beyond any short-term crisis. the simple fact is that we have to cut oil consumption: really cut it, not just talk about cutting it, and we have talked about it a great deal in the context of curbing co2 emissions. but there is still a huge gap between the grand rhetoric about using less oil and the amount of real practical action taking place on the ground. i have two specific requests for the council and commission today. it is welcome news indeed that the uk presidency is committed to getting an agreement before the end of december on the energy efficiency and energy services directive, but will the minister assure us today that this will be a directive with big teeth; one which makes serious, binding commitments on energy reduction; one which sets a framework for energy efficiency and stimulates a rapid growth in energy efficiency services across europe? that is the sort of commitment we need if we are going to tackle the demand side of oil dependency, rather than just talk about it. secondly to the commission: will the commission commit to engaging in joined-up thinking on the issues of alternatives to oil? i welcome the forthcoming strategies which mr piebalgs mentioned. i hope that these will be coming not just from the energy commissioner, who we know is deeply committed to promoting energy saving and renewables. i hope that there will be wide and integrated commission strategies to stimulate european action across the board, bringing together policy initiatives on transport, industry, taxation and agriculture. in many cases we have the technology, we even have a successful pilot project somewhere in the eu, but what we do not have is the means to roll out the technology and make it mainstream. in my own region we have the beginnings of a successful bio-diesel industry in the tees valley. very high-yield oil seed rape grows right next to an existing petrochemical industry. we already have the start of a 'green route' of filling stations supplying 5% biodiesel, but there is not yet the infrastructure, the capacity, or the tax regime to roll out that biodiesel programme everywhere. biodiesel is just one case where the talking has to stop. i am afraid oil demand will not go down unless there is more concrete structural action on both renewables and energy efficiency.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming the president-in-office – who, i know full well, is a very committed internationalist himself – to this debate. i thank the commissioner for the support she gave us in the delegation that attended the summit in new york. as you have all mentioned, ngos and others have been somewhat critical of the outcome document of the summit. however, i would argue, as you have done, for a more measured approach in the assessment that we make and would agree that we should describe it as a glass half-full. i also believe that exaggerated accusations of failure will not help to create the right incentives for policy makers to take risks and take action. in the outcome document there are strong commitments on how we should meet the mdgs by 2015. however, one of the things i regret is that global target 8 is not strong enough to ensure that countries like new zealand, australia, canada or italy are not let off the hook and to keep pressure on them to do the same as the european union has done. promises of 0.7% are simply not enough and, therefore, we need to see action from these countries and others. i also welcome – as i am sure the president-in-office does – the strong reference in the document to the need for innovative sources of finance to be sought in order to meet the mdgs. i also believe that the endorsement given by george bush to the mdgs represents significant progress – perhaps the best progress of the week. perhaps self-interest is pushing the united states along that multilateral road that many of us believe it is not prepared to take. i am also keen to acknowledge that in the outcome document they make a very clear link between security, development and conflict resolution in the measures that they take. it also clearly identifies the responsibilities of both developed and developing countries. the eu development policy statement is now the appropriate vehicle for us to move this forward and to show that we firmly believe in the need to rebuild, in europe and elsewhere, that strong sense of unity, purpose and action. the document is also strong on governance and the rule of law, which are very important aspects of our work with developing countries. you have mentioned the peace-building commission – which is very important – and peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building. i regret that the human rights council is now going into the general assembly, where it will be subject to wrangling and horse-trading. therefore, again, the european union has a role to play in pushing this forward in a positive way. most of all, i welcome the fact that we now have collective responsibility to protect civilians against genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and all crimes against humanity. now we look forward to the proof that in the future the un will be able to avoid those failures that we so tragically saw in bosnia and rwanda. on reform issues, we regret that the secretary-general will continue to be micro-managed by the member states of the united nations. the biggest disappointment is the failure to address the proliferation of nuclear weapons. that means that we now have a yawning gap in our international arrangements and the eu again must apply pressure to move this forward. finally, i wish to refer to the amendment tabled by the pse group on sexual and reproductive health rights. this is an important position for us to take if we are to meet the millennium development goals. it underpins all those goals, particularly on hiv/aids and maternal and child mortality. i trust that this parliament will reinstate this in the text; that we will commit ourselves, as we did in the vote on my report on the millennium development goals, to this important aspect. this parliament should then subsequently support the international legitimacy of the un. in 1945 the stakes were high for the policy makers; the stakes are high now, but the reasons for moving forward are just as great as they were then.
mr president, i wish to thank the president-in-office and commissioner ferrero-waldner for the excellent work they have already done at the un. i was privileged to co-chair the delegation to the un with my distinguished colleague, michel rocard, the former prime minister of france. we need a united nations which reflects the shared values of ordinary people and which delivers them. today we live in a global market full of images. the tsunami in indonesia, the floods in new orleans and terrorism in london become local events: local in my village, in my reality, in my home and among my friends. this is 'unity through diversity', not 'one-size fits all'. how can the un exist in this brave new world and still be relevant? the un has no legislative powers, nor is it a world government. it is merely an organisation that delivers. the best thing to have happened to the united nations, in hindsight, is the united states suddenly having become more serious about its delivery capability. business as usual is therefore no longer an option and messrs ping and annan have done excellent work in starting the process of reform. excellent work is already being done by the un's specialised agencies such as the who, undp, the world food programme, the imo and the ico, but even here there is scope for an in-depth review to ensure best value for money and the highest quality of management. those organisations may be delivering, but the un process itself in new york is not. that must change. we should limit the process in new york and instead focus on un agencies as outputs. we need to draw upon best-practice in government and large corporations. a long-range planning group should be established to predict crisis situations well in advance. poverty, disease, conflict and despair are often the result of poor national governance. we should help to increase capacity and give aid to those who can use it wisely. i am pleased to announce that the european parliament, through the committee on development and cooperation has already proposed that an amount of around eur 2 million be allocated under the budget for quick-win impacts and also, following a meeting with the commissioner in new york, for the peace building commission. an effective system of international governance and justice is one that brings to justice those who have committed crimes against humanity. we also have a right to protect. un peacekeepers must be better trained, and under chapter vii of the un charter, they could have right of enforcement powers for conflict resolution. mr president, i wish to say that this has been a very important and excellent debate. thank you.
president-in-office of the council. clearly each member state is subject to the obligations imposed upon it by european union law. therefore it is important to recognise that, particularly in relation to directives that have been passed, there are processes whereby infringement procedures can follow. whilst we recognise that not all member states have implemented eu waste legislation fully, in general i would suggest that implementation of european union environmental law has actually improved in recent years.
president-in-office of the council. i really could not agree more with the honourable member about the importance of these issues, not least following the attacks in madrid, and in london on 7 july. the council has always endeavoured to strike a balance between providing security to european union citizens while simultaneously guaranteeing their human rights and civil liberties, regardless of religious belief or ethnic origin. on 13 june 2002, the council adopted a framework decision on combating terrorism. this framework decision approximates member state legislation as regards acts of terrorism, offences relating to a terrorist group and offences linked to terrorist activities. it is specifically mentioned in article 1 of the framework decision that it 'shall not have the effect of altering the obligation to respect fundamental rights and fundamental legal principles as enshrined in article 6 of the treaty'. it is in particular in defence of those rights that the member states need to combat terrorism, which is the antithesis of human rights as we see it in democratic societies. in his address to the european parliament on 7 september, my colleague, the british home secretary charles clarke, emphasised the need to find a balance between civil liberties and the increase in security. on that occasion the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, also stressed the need for a balance between law enforcement activities and the protection of fundamental rights.
may i, once again, welcome the minister back to this house. it is very pleasing to see you here, to provide a detailed answer to the question that i had tabled. you make reference to statements made by your colleague, the home secretary of the united kingdom, mr clarke. may i draw your attention to comments that he has made since the date that you mention and ask you to what extent the presidency is committed to doing away with certain provisions of the convention on human rights?
president-in-office of the council. let me address the question by being very clear that the priority of our presidency, not least given the attacks in madrid and london, is to give renewed momentum to the eu counter-terrorism action plan, which has been agreed by all member states. we believe that, by focusing our efforts on this plan, we can achieve the harmonisation and establish the common ground of which i spoke earlier.
mr president-in-office, the european arrest warrant is a very sensible and welcome measure to try and counter terrorism, but it has not been implemented by several member states because of a fear that people extradited under the warrant will not receive a fair trial, appropriate legal support or appropriate language support. will you examine this, as the president-in-office, to see if you can reassure all member states that the arrest warrant may be implemented in full?
president-in-office of the council. i can give an undertaking to the honourable member that this is an issue which we should have concern for, given our commitment not only to the common arrest warrant but also to action to take forward a common evidence warrant across the european union. if there are practical reasons, given concerns within member states, which are preventing the deepening of the cooperation of which i spoke earlier, then that is exactly within the concern of the council. in particular i will ensure that the honourable member's remarks are brought to the attention of the home secretary.
president-in-office of the council. first of all, i should like to congratulate the european parliament on the launch of its own website before i try to defend the council's website. (applause) let me do my best. the objective of the council's website is twofold: to provide information on the role and activities of the council and to enable the institution to comply with its obligations as regards access to documents. thus, in addition to the homepage of javier solana, the secretary general of the council and high representative for the common foreign and security policy, the council website provides access to press releases and a wide range of information of particular interest to the media on the activities of the council within the different policy areas. in addition, the website includes the public register of council documents and provides information concerning the use of the register and about the rules governing transparency and access to documents. it should be pointed out that the somewhat specialised council website has been designed with a view to avoiding, as far as possible, overlap and duplication of work in relation to the interinstitutional website europa, which is managed by the european commission and addressed to the public in general.
'yes, minister!' is the presidency-in-office aware that when asked to consider the inadequacies of the council's website, journalists and ngos seem at a loss whether to laugh hysterically or to gnash their teeth in anger? would he agree that if the european union is to connect better with its citizens, then the public sources of information need to reflect the principles of openness and transparency? will he take steps to initiate a review and public consultation aimed at sweeping aside the backward-looking approach of the council secretariat and providing the public with a first-class source of honest, factual and accurate information?
president-in-office of the council. on the basis of my inquiries since this question was tabled, i have some sympathy with the points raised by the honourable member. i can assure him that the structure and content of the council's website undergoes continuous review and this process will be continued in parallel with the improvements to the europa website, of which i spoke a moment or two ago. i feel the only point of difference between us, in terms of the question that was put to me, is to suggest that in the first instance the public should visit the council website, rather than the europa website. i think there is a genuine question as to how we ensure the kind of duplication, which has been all too common amongst the government websites of member states, and ensure that the product offered to the citizenry of europe better reflects the single access point that we wish the public to move towards. that, most clearly, in terms of the public, is the europa website. the commission has recently announced its action plan to improve communicating in europe and i am sure that will have a direct bearing on the europa site.
mr president-in-office, perhaps you would like to visit a website that really does frustrate one, that really does contain inaccuracies. that is the uk liberal democrat website, which, for example, claims that liberal democrats are the main opposition to the british government and that they have policies.
president-in-office of the council. ever mindful of my responsibilities as a representative of the presidency, rather than speaking as a partisan figure here today, i would respectfully suggest that those inaccuracies are perhaps not so much technological as ideological.
i should like to ask the president-in-office of the council to kindly answer mr davis' original question: is the council aware of any website maintained by a public authority which is better designed to frustrate? he did not actually answer the question. can we therefore take it that he agrees that the council's website is the worst of all public websites?
president-in-office of the council. i suggest to the honourable member that if he believes it is an efficient and effective use of the council's time to visit every public website on the worldwide web, then i would respectfully disagree with him.
president-in-office of the council. as pointed out by the honourable member, the european union institutions are required by law to keep a register of documents and to grant direct access to documents in electronic form. by setting up its public register of documents, which i understand became operational in january of 1999, the council fulfilled that requirement well before the relevant regulation entered into force. the number of users of the council register has been steadily increasing ever since. thus in 2004, close to 300 000 different users logged on to the council's public document register, as opposed to roughly 180 000 in 2003. this represents an almost 63% increase in the number of users in one year. the total number of visits increased by just under 20%: 920 000 in 2004 against 770 000 in 2003, representing more than 2 500 visits per day. consultations in terms of number of screens viewed totalled more than 5.5 million. as these figures on the use by the public of the register of council documents indicate, the register has indeed become a frequently used research tool for citizens wishing to closely follow the development of community affairs. this is all the more understandable as the council register is constantly updated via an automatic archiving system. by 9 september 2005, the council register contained references to more than 640 000 documents. moreover, a considerable amount of council documents are automatically made available, in full text format, via the council register as soon as they are produced. thus in 2004, around 70 000 documents, or roughly 60% of the more than 100 000 documents produced and registered that year, could be consulted full-text online immediately upon circulation. provisional agendas for meetings of the council and its preparatory bodies can be consulted online as soon as they have been circulated, thus enabling users of the register to easily identify the reference numbers of documents discussed at any given meeting. moreover, apart from the document number entry, the users of the register can search for documents on a given subject via other entries of the register, such as the meeting date, the interinstitutional file number or a subject code. nevertheless, in order to further improve the quality of the register, the council will study the technical feasibility of performing an automatic search via interactive agendas for documents on a given issue or that are part of the same file.
i should like to thank the presidency, but let me give an example. if you put 'data retention' – a subject much in the news – in the subject-matter search box, you get no documents at all. it is as if charles clarke's frenzy of activity on this topic was a mirage. if you put the words 'data retention' in the title box you get 45 documents, but with no way of navigating what meeting they relate to. you have not answered the specific request in my question. will you copy the parliament's legislative observatory to make the council website easy to navigate? if you use the help section on the website, you get 'regarding suffixes on documents'. there may be multiple suffixes indicating the different versions, for example, rev 1 (the first revision), rev 2 cor 1 (the first corrigendum to the second revision), cor 1 rev 2 (the second revision of the first corrigendum). i do not believe that helps public enlightenment.
president-in-office of the council. i am not entirely convinced that public enlightenment is assisted when what i clearly stated in the final paragraph of my answer appears not to have been heard. so, let me repeat it for the record. in order to further improve the quality of the register, the council will study the technical feasibility of performing an automatic search via interactive agendas for documents on a given issue or being part of the same file.
president-in-office of the council. the council is aware that various organisations have voiced concerns over the alleged adverse effects of fisheries agreements between the community and third countries. the commission, in response to such criticism, issued a communication on 27 december 2002 on an integrated framework for fisheries partnership agreements with third countries. subsequently, in july 2004, the council endorsed the policy changes advocated by the commission in its communication. it is important to stress the word 'partnership'. this is about more than just buying up fishing rights from third countries and denuding their stocks. the community will enter into a dialogue with the third country on the basis of scientific evidence to establish whether there are surplus fishing possibilities which the community vessels can extract sustainably. the community will discuss with the third country how the money paid can be used for the benefit of the people of that country. as these are fisheries partnership agreements, the council will seek to ensure that this money is to the benefit of the local fisheries sector, including fishermen and the coastal populations. finally, in the preparation of new agreements or renewal of existing ones, the commission systematically presents to the council assessment reports on the effects of these agreements. the council considers these agreements to be beneficial to both parties and looks forward to concluding future fisheries partnership agreements with third countries. the united kingdom presidency is also working with the commission to host a seminar later this year on the question of third-country agreements.
minister, i find it absolutely extraordinary that a government such as yours and that of your leader tony blair – who has made such a big play on africa, what is going wrong in africa, and what we have to do to try to help africa – can be turning a blind eye to this issue. i am afraid that these third-country fisheries deals are the most appalling combination of european commercial greed and bad african government corruption. there is absolutely no question if you look at every independent report that in environmental terms these fisheries deals off the west coast of africa are the environmental equivalent of setting fire to the serengeti! the local populations are being left without any hope of earning a living and i am very disappointed that you will not at least promise us an inquiry.
president-in-office of the council. i have no doubt that the honourable member is sincere in his comments and i am respectful of the organisations that he consulted in preparing his contribution to this debate today, so i would be grateful if he could forward, both to the commission and to the council, the evidence he referred to in his question and i will ensure that it is passed on to the relevant officials.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply. i clearly do not have the unerring experience of fisheries questions that my colleague, mr farage, has just demonstrated. i did serve, however, representing cornwall and plymouth. fishing in that part of the world relies totally on partnerships and agreements. if there were no agreements – and i disagree with mr farage here – what happens is that a number of mavericks simply abuse the quantity of fish stocks present. it seems to me an excellent idea that the european union concludes these agreements, and i personally hope that they continue.
president-in-office of the council. i have great sympathy with the point that the honourable member has made. it is a debate which is in some way similar to the debate on economic partnership agreements in general. few would disagree with the principle that partnership agreements of this kind can genuinely be of benefit to the developing countries concerned. however, if in practice the effect of those agreements is inimical and detrimental to their very objectives, then that is rightfully a matter of concern. that is why i have undertaken, if evidence is produced, to pass it on to the relevant individuals.
it is extraordinary that mr farage should raise this issue when he barely attends the committee on fisheries, and i would urge him to attend on a more regular basis, so that he can put forward his views on this. i worry that what he is referring to is every fishing agreement. for example, the norwegian fishing agreement is vital for scottish fishermen. he needs to be consistent in his approach.
president-in-office of the council. i am not sure whether the honourable member had the opportunity, as i did this morning, to participate in a three-hour debate on the issue of turkey in this parliament. i can assure you that the british presidency is fully aware of the range of issues involved in turkish accession. i would however suggest that many of us believe that the very process which turkey has been through, and which it would continue to move through, is the best guarantee that these very issues that need to be addressed are being addressed and will continue to be addressed in the future.
obviously, the issue of religious freedom is absolutely critical in negotiations with turkey. in the next few weeks the ngo first step forum will be visiting turkey to investigate the situation on the ground and i will be happy to forward a copy of its report to the president-in-office. can the president-in-office reassure me that religious freedom and expression thereof will be emphasised throughout the accession process with turkey?
president-in-office of the council. i can give that assurance but i would also point out to the honourable member that leaders of catholic, greek orthodox and syrian orthodox churches in turkey have said that as a result of the european union harmonisation reforms, their communities now find it easier to worship and that attitudes towards them have changed. i fully recognise that there is a great deal of further work still to be done, and that is why i pay due tribute to the work that mrs stihler and other members of the ngo community have undertaken in this field. nonetheless, i think the words from the leaders of the catholic, the greek orthodox and the syrian orthodox churches in turkey to which i have just referred tell their own story about the real progress that has already been made.
president-in-office of the council. as i made clear earlier this month in this parliament, this is not an issue for the council, but for the irish and colombian governments.
minister, is that answer not a pitiful and cowardly cop-out? the council, with collegiate emphasis, has repeatedly stressed its commitment to the fight against international terrorism and yet when faced with flagrant contradiction of that commitment through a member state harbouring notorious international terrorists, all it can do is shrug its shoulders in lamentable indifference. this is a challenge to the council. is it in a position to prove its credentials in fighting international terrorism, or is it only interested in ducking its responsibility? you can do better. the question is: have you the will to do better, or is all the talk mere platitudes and empty words?
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect to the questioner, i would suggest that the issue is not one of will, but one of locus, and given that the council has received no request from either of the two governments involved, the council does not have a direct locus in this matter.
i find the president-in-office's remarks quite amazing. considering that he is part of a government that has taken such a strong line on international terrorism, the way in which he has ducked the issue – his cop-out here this evening – is totally amazing. would he not agree that he should be encouraging the two governments of the republic of ireland and colombia to ensure that there is no hiding place for those people who were convicted in colombia, sent to jail, and who then absconded? would he not agree that he should be leading to ensure that in the light of international terrorism he takes a positive role and does not try to duck out of this position?
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am grateful to you for that direction. i would suggest that, given the concern expressed by the questioner and the pressure i am under to catch a plane, it might be best if we were to correspond so that he can have a full reply to his concerns in relation to the directive.
my question is question no 32 on the list, but you have already answered by saying that it will be answered in writing. i look forward to that reply. i hope the minister catches his plane. i look forward to continuing this discussion.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr menéndez del valle on his excellent work. as chairman of parliament's delegation covering india, i believe his report is balanced and demonstrates the complex and valuable relationship between the eu and india. it also marks a real turning point in our long-shared history. the eu and india are natural partners and, as we have heard several times today, two of the largest democracies in the world. in a few decades india will be one of the largest economies in the world. it possesses immense geopolitical strength and it is timely for us to shift our relationship to a higher and a more intensive level. both the partners are well placed to be significant players in the global, knowledge-based economy. in the words of tony blair, it is crucial for the eu and india to create an equal partnership for mutual benefit, especially with our own declining demographic trends and with half of india's population being under 25. however, while we often hear about india's highly-developed technical sector, it is important not to forget that there are still huge challenges in india where we could play a pivotal role: poverty and deprivation and over 600 million people reliant on farming. that is why our response needs to be more than just rhetoric. i support what mr menéndez del valle said about needing more resources. the commission and the council need to seriously address the request for india for eur 1 billion each for health and education, recognising that one of our main priorities is the millennium development goals and india makes up 40% of the mdgs. at the same time, the commission needs to have progressive aid policies that stimulate the entire country and not just certain regions. beyond all the warm words, how do we make a difference? our partnership needs to reach beyond economics, to be more political. we cannot talk about an increasing political dialogue but then set up only a high-level trade group. there is an urgent need to create and upgrade our contracts between parliaments. i really welcome the forum of parliamentarians set up by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry, but both sides need to adopt a roadmap for enhanced political dialogue, including parliamentary support.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, globalisation is a challenge for the world's established economies. in europe, we must ensure that we establish stronger ties with countries that share our values. the proposed eu-india strategic partnership therefore represents an opportunity for both the eu and india and has the potential to have a positive effect on the whole of the south-east asian region. whilst it is all too easy to see this partnership in purely economic terms, to my mind it represents much more than this. clearly, india is one of the nations at the forefront of the economic emergence of asia. in india, we also see a country that has our shared values of democracy, the rule of law, an independent judiciary and free media. there is still much work to do, but all of these factors allow investors to have confidence in their dealings with india and should instil in us the confidence to take these steps towards partnership. within this partnership there will also be scope to raise issues in other areas, whether this be on human rights, child labour, education, development, poverty eradication, women's rights or the rights of minorities. there must always be a willingness to raise these issues with our partners, but always to do so on the basis of equality in exchange for mutual benefit. india is a nation rich in culture and history. its history is intertwined inseparably with european history. these shared experiences provide a solid foundation from which we can build. the growing importance india has in south-east asia places upon it extra responsibilities. there will be times when we learn from india's experience, but equally, at other junctures, we should be willing to provide our opinion and support to ensure that these responsibilities are fulfilled. it is only by doing so that we can truly give our sincere commitment to the partnership. in our global village, south-east asia represents an area of great opportunity and it is here that our relations with india can help bring about peace, stability and closer cooperation between the south-east asian nations. they, of course, have their issues, whether it be water or self-determination, but there remains here a distinct possibility that south-east asia could emerge as a closer union.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, having worked a 13-hour day, i will soon be contravening the working time directive. i am on the committee on employment and social affairs, so perhaps i will report to the chairman, but i will cope, which is more than millions of people in the indian sub-continent can say. here we have the astonishing spectacle of the eu pouring funds into the three sei organisations, relocating thousands of jobs in the call centre software services sector to india, just part of the relocation of so many jobs to asia. that it makes european unemployment worse is not the point. what is relevant is the reason for the job relocation. we all know why: cheaper products, primarily because workers in that part of the world are paid less than european workers, which means less than the legal minimum european rate. if that is not the case, there is no reason to relocate in the first place. they will also have longer working hours, actually promoted by three seis. mr menéndez del valle actually boasts of up to five-and-a-half hours more per day available. worse, he admits to unemployment abuses in india, including child labour. so we have cheaper products by breaking eu rules for wages and for the hours worked by employees who, i have no doubt, are often working in circumstances which an eu health and safety inspector would shut down. in short, the eu is exploiting sweated labour, the same evil practice it is so keen to eradicate here. what a disgrace!
mr president, one of my proudest achievements in this house was to co-found three years ago the informal intergroup, friends of india. since then india has gone from strength to strength and is now a strategic partner with the eu, which i warmly welcome. india remains a stable secular democracy, which therefore disproves the chinese position that size of country is a bar to democracy and human rights. the sixth eu-india summit in new delhi on 7 september between eu council president tony blair, commission president barroso and prime minister manmohan singh was a great success, with the signing of the joint action plan for an eu-india strategic partnership. this sets up a high-level group to study differences over intellectual property rights, anti-dumping and non-tariff barriers. it is clearly in india's interests to join forces in the wto negotiations to lower protectionist barriers, particularly in services such as accounting, law and finance, as this will free up trade and generate greater investment flows. india now has a 220 million-strong middle class and india-eu trade volumes touched usd 35.37 billion last year and are growing at an astonishing 20% per annum. india recently bought airbus, and in my country we are outsourcing call centres and even healthcare to india, which i – unlike my ukip colleague – welcome. india, though, still only represents 1.5% of the eu's external trade, compared to the eu representing some 20% for india, so the growth potential remains enormous. more could be done to facilitate so-called mode 4, free movement of professionals – particularly research scientists – and india is now participating, as mentioned, in the galileo project. i was responsible for the amendment to the report asking for india to be granted privileged status in the exchange of information with europol in fighting terrorism. i was pleased that this was raised at the summit. lastly, i thank india that in spite of its communist party protest it voted with the us and the eu on an iaea resolution on iran's nuclear programme. india deserves its own dedicated european parliament delegation.
mr president, i represent a constituency with a long history of leading in the textiles trade. the cotton mills of lancashire helped form the backbone of the industrial revolution in the united kingdom. much of that has changed over the years. mills that once employed thousands now employ in the very low hundreds. it was unfortunate in lancashire that the management of the process was not provided at a governmental level and many valued people found themselves with redundant skills overnight. the provision of knowledge to empower and innovate was not catered for at a national level. the new changing circumstances that we face must not be allowed to be a repetition of that experience, but rather a window through which we evolve our industry. the so-called 'bra wars' have been the unfortunate side effect of our lack of foresight and preparation. nobody is expecting change overnight. we should not forget how remarkable it is that china and europe have found themselves able to reach such a compromise under immense pressure, but the first tentative steps must be taken immediately before the situation worsens. we require management, not protectionist measures. the agreement reached is a sticking plaster on future trade relations with china and european industry must find a way to compete with low-cost competitors. commissioner, i am sure you will agree that current circumstances cannot be allowed to continue. what specific measures do you intend to initiate immediately to provide the management that eu producers so require? we simply cannot be caught unprepared and off guard again.
rapporteur.– mr president, it is very timely that we are having this debate on my china report straight after the debate on textiles. the thrust of my report is that the textiles industry is really just the tip of the iceberg. we are talking about textiles today, but tomorrow it will be footwear, the day after that it will be bicycles, and then automobiles, machine components or high-tech goods. what we are facing here is not just a one-off issue limited to one sector, but a systemic issue, a challenge of much greater scope than i believe the commission recognises. what we have heard from mr kovács echoes what we hear all the time from mr mandelson too. to be honest, it is not very reassuring. what we are hearing from the commission is an extraordinarily complacent and also rather patronising attitude that somehow, all we need to do in the european union is to move a little bit further up the higher value-added chain and even perhaps to give up what is left of our old manufacturing base and concentrate instead on the knowledge-based industries. that kind of idea seems to be in complete denial of the fact that china is developing its own lower-cost but highly-skilled expertise in those areas too. almost 20% of china's exports are now classified as high-tech. with over 2 million graduates every single year, there is every reason to believe that percentage will grow. the traditional assumption that the eu and us will keep leading in knowledge-intensive industries, while developing countries will somehow just be left to focus on the lower-skilled areas, is rightly being seriously contested. this is a patronising and complacent attitude and one that is completely out of date and out of tune with where we are today. that is why my report calls on the commission to rethink its strategy, to wake up to the fact that old fashioned concepts of national comparative advantage simply no longer apply in a world where brain power can zip round the globe at the flick of a computer key. the importance of rethinking that old trade paradigm is crucial, not just for employment in the eu, but also for the survival of many developing countries' industries as well, including some of the poorest in the developing world. to take the example of textiles again, we have heard already in the debate how countries such as bangladesh, laos, cambodia, sri lanka and nepal all depend on textile and clothing for the vast majority of their industrial exports. many of them face devastation as a result of increasing volumes of cheap chinese exports. not only are they facing the closure of their own factories, but we are seeing chinese competitive pressures forcing down social standards, this essentially savage free trade dogma means that some of the poorest countries in the world are being thrown into cut-throat competition with one another in a race to the bottom on wages, social standards and, basically, anything that can be made cheaper. in the philippines the government has ruled that the minimum wage will no longer apply in the textiles sector. in bangladesh restrictions on night work and overtime are being lifted. we are seeing these key standards that have been fought over for very many years now being rolled back in the name of trying to be ever more competitive. as well as demanding a complete reassessment of the trade model, it is clear that we also urgently need to redouble our efforts to ensure that international trade is based on a platform of minimum social and environmental standards. it is clear, unfortunately, that china's competitiveness is built, at least in part, on its exploitation of its workers and on its externalisation of social and environmental costs. for example, although in theory at least china has strict laws when it comes to what is in its rule books, in practice those laws are flouted time and again. it is a shocking fact that over 100 000 people per year are estimated to die in work-related accidents in china. the report calls for minimum social standards, the ilo standards, trade union standards, and cooperation between european trade unions and those groups that are trying to set up similar bodies in china. it also looks at the environmental impact of the development model which we in the west have also followed. we need to change it, but what we see in china is the acceleration of that model. the impact is clearly a massive one on the resources of other nations. china is already the world's second largest consumer of oil and water and trails only the us in co2 emissions. it is only by challenging the key free trade model that we can really make sure that all workers in the world have the chance to earn a decent livelihood. i urge members to support this report. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i congratulate caroline lucas on her report. we have very little disagreement with the contents of the report; we have more problems with the content of her speech, which seemed not entirely to reflect the report as it stands. i have had the opportunity to visit china recently, at the invitation of the chinese government, to look at developments in the country that represents a fifth of the world's population. while man does not live by bread alone, the year-on-year growth rates of 10%-plus have transformed china from the country i first knew more than 20 years ago. even the so-called depressed north-east of the country has a skyline littered with cranes that shows a level of economic activity that would be impressive anywhere in the world. across the country, 300 million chinese have been pulled out of poverty, even if more than 100 million remain in the more remote rural areas living on less than eur 1 per day. china is succeeding in manufacturing, not by a race to the bottom, as the flourishing department stores of harbin and chengde prove. the result of this economic boom has transformed china into the world's fourth-largest exporter and, as we have seen in today's earlier debate, has made it extremely competitive in a number of industrial sectors. we have to take care when dealing with those issues. as a member of this house back in the mid-80s, when japan played out the role that china is playing today, i saw the wrong steps being taken. the initial voluntary quotas on exports to the united states bought from the japanese by president nixon in exchange for the return of okinawa to japanese rule, later extended to europe, led to a situation where unmet demand allowed japanese corporations to make super-profits which, reinvested, exacerbated the problems in the long term. instead, we need to match china's exports to europe with our own to china. we have to recognise that economics is starting to transform chinese society. to echo mr caspary, there are a whole series of human rights and other problems. we are particularly concerned in relation to this report at the restrictions of the rights of labour activists to organise free trade unions. we hope the commission will pressure european business operating in china to set an example by giving their own workers full trade union rights. there are environmental problems in china, of course, and these should be addressed. we should avoid the hypocrisy of asking china to refrain from doing what we are not prepared to do ourselves in europe. we cannot expect china to voluntarily restrict its use of energy below levels that we see in the european union. we have to move away from crisis management of economic and trade issues as we threaten to cascade from textiles, to footwear, to bicycles and an endless sequence of other products. we need to build a serious partnership with china on economic and trade matters. if we do not, others will. we also need a serious political dialogue with china. we have much to say to each other. this report is not the place to raise these issues, but the decision by the foreign affairs committee to draft a report on eu-china political relations is to be welcomed.
mr president, i am keen that we finish this debate. could you confirm that we shall continue until all the speakers have spoken, so that we can vote this morning?
mr president, the shortage of bras in our department stores has indeed proved to be a beneficial crisis because it has exposed the eu for exactly what it is: a backward-looking customs union, an anachronism in the 21st century, and a bloated bureaucracy that failed to spot the obvious happening, while the commissioner was enjoying a lengthy holiday. from the uk's perspective, here we are – the fourth biggest economy in the world, the second largest global investor, a truly global trading nation – and we are not allowed to make our own trade policy! oh no, that is done for us by the overpaid, unelected bureaucrats in brussels and today we have a former communist commissar lecturing us on what we can and cannot do! a one-size-fits-all trade policy for the european union cannot work when you have countries and economies as different as the united kingdom and italy. in the modern world sovereign states use free trade agreements. the really good news though is that british business is waking up to the fact that the innocuous-sounding common market was actually always intended to be far more than that, and british businesses are saying: we do not need the european union, we would be better off making our own trade deals. so thank you to the european commission. thank you for this cock-up, because the day that britain leaves the european union has come much closer. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, let me begin by endorsing much of what mr farage had to say in his pertinent observations about the state of trade policy. however, i want to deal with another issue. trade cannot be viewed in isolation. it is not immune from ethical and moral considerations. china needs our trade. the price attached can properly be more than financial. we cannot ignore the widespread abuse of human rights in china, particularly with regard to a harmless but tiny minority – namely practicing christians. it is wholly unacceptable to have chinese christians in prison for merely expressing their christian beliefs or distributing copies of the bible. freedom of worship is a fundamental right recognised by most of us in europe. its denial in china is not something we can ignore to facilitate trade with a state that persecutes christian people, whatever the mutual economic benefits might be. i therefore call for a linkage between ongoing eu-china bilateral dialogue on human rights and the negotiations on trade. we should make progress on trade conditional on progress in securing and improving human rights. liberalisation of trade requires liberalisation of human rights in china. (applause)
rapporteur.– mr president, as you know, we have just been discussing my report on eu-china trade relations, but the debate is not yet finished. i propose that, while the rest of the debate takes place this afternoon, the actual vote be postponed until the brussels part-session in two weeks' time. this is an important report and there should be a full house here to vote on it, not just the 40 or 50 members who might still be here at 5 p.m. i am afraid that i myself will not be here at 5 p.m., as i have another engagement this evening. the change to the agenda that shifted my report from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. this morning was made only very recently. that is what caused this problem. i formally move that we postpone the vote until the brussels part-session in two weeks' time. (applause)
i rise on a point of order under rule 132 concerning the agenda, with reference to question time. as you know question time is supposed to last a full hour. last night it only lasted just over thirty five minutes. there were two reasons for this, not only did the debate overrun by ten minutes but also the presidency-in-office felt impelled to take an urgent telephone call which left us doing nothing for fifteen minutes and the debate only started therefore at twenty five past. can i please ask the presidency to take note of this? question time is the one opportunity that backbenchers have to challenge the presidency-in-office; it is supposed to be one full hour. please can the presidency ensure that in future we get our hour of questions?
in writing. i welcome the interest which both the council and commission have shown concerning the impact of fuel prices and the fisheries sector. i hope that the commission will look seriously at a number of possible initiatives which will help the fisheries sector.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party fully supports reform of the united nations security council, in order that it better reflects today's world, and calls for further improvements in the way that the european union speaks at the un. however, it is inappropriate to talk of an eu seat in paragraph 19, as the un charter does not allow for organisations such as the eu to become members.
in writing. i welcome this resolution following up the un summit on reform of the millennium development goals. it is essential to keep these objectives at the top of the world cumminities priority list. parliament's resolution will be a modest contribution to that objective. it is a source of deep regret that the outcome document from the summit failed to set new clearly defined targets and measurable indicators for each of the mdgs. it is now up the commission and the member states to take the initiative to correct this and and to ensure that commitments are fulfilled.
in writing. although i support the substance of this resolution, i could not support the second part of paragraph 19 which supports a separate seat for the eu in the un security council. this would undermine those countries which already have a seat on the un security council and thus is not in the british national interest.
in writing. this reports outlines the fact that the eu and india have the potential to build a privileged relationship in international relations. i welcome the recognition of the role of india as a regional power with global aspirations which shares a common vision with the eu on key factors such as democracy, multilateralism, trade, investment, development and many other issues. given the country's political and economical weight, the report rightly recommends that the eu spares no effort to progress quickly with the consolidation of the strategic association between the eu and india.
in writing. during the recent eu-india summit, the issue of trade barriers to scotch whisky was raised. i hope that india will reduce its tariffs on this world-class scottish product.
in writing. conservatives are longstanding supporters of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and energy conservation as important components of the energy mix. conservatives strongly support positive action on climate change and this is why we proposed an ambitious but realistic target of 60% of electricity in the eu from ultra-low or non-co2 emitting and co2 neutral energy technologies. as conservatives we firmly believe in a realistic approach to energy policies and oppose adopting mandatory targets which have never been achieved in the eu up to now and therefore make little sense
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues reluctantly felt unable to support this report on the grounds that many of the matters voted on are issues for member states' exclusive competence. whilst we fully support the aims of the rapporteur in ensuring a reduction in road traffic accidents, we nevertheless feel the best way to achieve this is through an exchange of best practice between member states rather than legislation at a european level.
in writing. in light of the increasing number of road accidents in europe this report is a timely initiative calling for the number of aacidents and deaths on eu roads to be cut by half by 2010. this laudable objective has my full support. in particular i welcome the emphasis given in the report to the protection and safety of vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists. however, in attempting to raise standards across the eu attention should be paid to the situation in individual member states, such as the uk, which have good working mechanisms in place: concerted government-led campaigns have contributed to an attitude of zero-tolerance among the british public with regard to drink-driving. it is therefore unclear that an eu wide harmonisation of speed limits and blood-alcohol limits would significantly benefit road-users in the uk at this time.
in writing. on paragraph 5, amendment 9, i voted against harmonisation of speed limits to km/h, as i believe people in scotland are happy with miles/h. this amendment would have created a heavy burden on the scottish taxpayer without any tangible benefits and i am glad it was defeated. on the other amendments concerning blood/alcohol levels, as the uk has more stringent legislation i prefer our own national legislation.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) is in favour of this initiative to halve the number of road traffic accidents in the eu by 2010. however, we have several reservations. for example, the uk currently has blood alcohol limits of 0.8mg compared to 0.2mg in sweden. despite the divergence between these levels, the two countries have the best road safety record in the eu. if the eu had the same road safety records as these two countries there would be 17,000 fewer road fatalities a year, a reduction of 39% on current levels, going a great way to achieving the 50% reduction in fatalities by 2010. the eplp believes therefore the emphasis should not be on harmonization but in sharing best practice on enforcement in road safety. similarly the eplp does not see the need to harmonize speed limits. this would lead to very peculiar road signs in the uk resulting in bizarre figures when speed limits are converted from km/h to miles per hour. the eplp therefore cannot support harmonization of blood alcohol levels and speed limits at this time.
mr president, it must be very difficult for the commissioner to come here with a brief that he may not know quite as much about as some of the speakers. at this point i should like to add our disappointment that mr mandelson decided not to come and also not to inform the committee on international trade that he was not going to attend. it would have been polite. i understand the reasons why and would have accepted them had he at least informed us. today, we heard the commissioner again trying to explain the inexplicable, claiming that his actions with regard to the reinstatement of the chinese textile quotas were carried out diligently and transparently and that the difficulties arising from this nonsense of a compromise were caused by unforeseen circumstances. i wrote to the commissioner in june prior to the shanghai agreement, asking him how his proposals would square the circle of the seemingly insatiable demand for chinese textiles in europe. his response was to claim that he had found a once-and-for-all agreement. i do not underestimate the scale of the tasks that the commissioner faces with china. it is a huge problem and there is no easy solution. however, i believe that fudges of the kind perpetrated in june and again at the beginning of this month will not solve the underlying potential difficulties we have with our trade with china. there are many aspects of the lucas report with which i do not agree. however, in recognising that in years to come we will have the same problem with other industries that we have with the textile industry, i believe she is extremely and entirely accurate. saying that we can move up the value-added chain will only work for so long. china is producing two million graduates a year. if you believe that these young people will continue to make cheap t-shirts and bras, then you are slightly misinformed. we should view the growth of china as an opportunity and not a threat, and we look forward to working closely with china. i must add one last point: selling china arms to balance our trade deficit is not the answer. i hope the commissioner will have an answer for that. geopolitical concerns over taiwan and international relations should only make short-term profits. i just wondered what your position is on the sale of arms.
mr president, i would like to thank my friend robert for a very sturdy speech! i can only support this report very reluctantly because the tone of it is not quite right. we have to understand that china is a great country with a population three times the size of the european union. it became a nation state 2000 years ago and has remained one until today. china has a civilisation that is much older than most of ours and our relationship with china is a relationship of equals in which neither side really has the right to lecture the other. china has its own way of doing things. we must continue to find ways of cooperating with china and if each side of the relationship tries hard enough to understand and accommodate the basic concerns of the other, by looking ahead in a proactive way, the future is bright. but if we fail, we will be plunged into damaging and acrimonious competition. the recent crisis over textile imports should be a lesson to us all. today the eu-china relationship is in a very active and productive phase and bilateral relationships are in a more mature, healthy and stable condition than ever. we have to develop this with diligence and sensitivity, striving always to find common ground and to minimise our inevitable differences. we need to maximise our trading synergies and work together on the big international problems of our age, including terrorism, nuclear proliferation and the fight against hunger and disease. none of this will be easy but there is a very relevant proverb in china: shi shang wu nan shi, zhi pa you xin ren. i will try to translate: in effect it says that there is nothing so difficult in this world that it cannot be resolved by people with high aspirations. i have no doubt that there are such people on both sides of our relationship and i look forward to a bright and mutually rewarding future in cooperation with china. (applause)
author.– mr president, for nine years nepal has been in the middle of a bloody civil war. maoist rebels have engaged in violent confrontations in nepal with the state army causing thousands of deaths. human rights abuses have been rife; ngos have published shocking reports of child soldiers fighting for maoists, and who, if captured, were imprisoned by the state. we also heard of villages being destroyed in the midst of armed conflict and minorities being targeted for discrimination. however, very little has been done to quell this particular situation. disbanding the government in february has only served to increase civil unrest and demonstrations and to harden the stance of the maoists, with restrictions placed on the media and political players doing nothing to help restore public confidence or restart the process of democracy. we in the european parliament have been very disappointed that our previous resolution was ignored. i would now urge the government and the king to engage in political dialogue to find a peaceful solution. i would strongly implore him and his government to make progress, especially in light of the troika next week. i call on nepal to work towards elections by next year. i appreciate that municipal elections are planned for april and i see no legitimate reason why national elections cannot be held at the same time. on 3 september 2005, the maoist groups declared a ceasefire. it must be sustained and reciprocated. with the support of the international community, it could mark the start of much-needed peace talks. if changes are not made, the situation will worsen. nepal is among the poorest and least-developed countries in the world. however, it has so much to offer. we must do all in our power to allow this beautiful and inspiring people to develop into a peaceful nation once again. the international community must support peaceful negotiations. i would strongly urge the council and the commission to work with the king and all the other players to broker a peace deal in this fragile country.
author.– this conflict has cost 12 000 lives over the last decade, many of them civilians from among the most vulnerable sections of the population. amnesty international has reported that tens of thousands of children are abducted from schools by maoist fighters to attend so-called political education and some, of course, are recruited as child soldiers. the security forces are also guilty of violations of children's rights. the extrajudicial killings of young people and others must stop. all abuses by the security forces must be properly investigated. all political prisoners must be released or tried under due process of law. i welcome the maoist ceasefire and i hope there will be an indefinite extension to this, but the king must reciprocate and he must also engage in constructive talks. we in the eu must also play our part. i call on the council and the member states to continue the suspension of military aid and call for all aid to be monitored and for certain sanctions to be imposed. this really is to put pressure on the king and the government to restore democracy in nepal. it is long overdue.
mr president, we welcome this resolution on human rights in nepal, particularly because the socialist international asia-pacific committee in ulan bator recently expressed its grave concern over the deteriorating situation in that country since the february coup d'état. all sides in this civil conflict – the insurgent communist party of nepal, marxists and the nepalese royalist army – are committing human rights abuses on a massive scale. however, we saw on 3 september the declaration of a unilateral ceasefire by the maoist rebels and the response by the seven-party alliance to try to start at the political level a process to resolve the armed conflict. we therefore call on the king to restore democracy, call fresh elections and lift the restrictions on the media; to call for a follow-up to the 2002 london international conference; to set out the principles to underpin a peace process in nepal and to bring together king gyanendra, the maoist rebel groups and the main political parties. in the meantime we ask that the commission, the council and the member states continue to put pressure on the king and his administration to respond positively, making it clear that any failure to respond will mean the isolation of the current regime, accompanied by smart sanctions.
author.– mr president, tunisia is an eu-euromed association partner country, which is almost unique in the islamic world by its full commitment to building a modern secular society. this is to the point that it actually forbids polygamy; it bans the hijab in public places and has an established and protected jewish community. tunisia has in recent years faced a hostile, fundamentalist, islamic opposition inspired by salafist and wahhabi teachings and committed to the violent overthrow of its government. this state of affairs explains in part why the government of president ben ali has had to impose a rather tough regime, which falls well short of the standards we would enjoy in the eu. i am convinced, however, that tunisia is now genuinely committed to long-term reform and to promoting genuine human rights, good governance and secular democracy. i commend this resolution, which is balanced and constructive, and i will be supporting tunisia in the process. we in the european parliament – and i in particular, as the rapporteur for the european neighbourhood policy – will all be closely monitoring this process.
mr president, if this is a sign of things to come from the influence of the events in berlin on this house, then they will do us no good whatsoever. commissioner mccreevy is entitled to his opinions. what he said in sweden is perfectly normal. my group would not support calling commissioner mccreevy to this house. if we are serious about making the european union work, then we owe each other solidarity. solidarity involves allowing companies from the new member states to bid successfully for work in the existing member states and carry it out. that is part of getting our economies working together properly. that is the reason why my group will oppose calling commissioner mccreevy to the house. (mixed reactions)
mr president, you seem to have forgotten that there is at least one group in this parliament that is eurosceptic, that opposed the european constitution and, for good measure, is rather bigger than the uen group. though not known for being shy in my criticism of this commission, could i with your permission ask mrs sinnott to speak on behalf of our group to give our position?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, barely 15 kilometres south of my gibraltar constituency, thousands of sub-saharan migrants are massed near the border of fortress europe. many are hungry and weak after their journey through the deserts and mountains of africa. they struggle against disease, violence and the exploitation of criminal gangs. now we learn that they are dying at the fences which separate poverty from prosperity, or that they are left in the desert without food and water. many of us remember such scenes from bible study. the difference is that this exodus will not be solved by divine intervention – only by political action. africa is europe’s backyard: our near neighbourhood. we cannot fence ourselves off from it, closing our doors and our eyes to its social and economic problems. in the words of the poet thomas gray, we must not ‘shut the gates of mercy on mankind’. the flood tide of migrants along our southern borders is upsetting our cosy calculation that inequality can be sustained without cost. with developing countries, remember this: the hungry vote with their feet. so either we accept their produce and allow their economies to prosper or we accept their migrants. our futures are interdependent. sustainable economic, social and political development in africa is a common concern, essential to europe’s future. we recognised this in 1995, when the barcelona process enshrined multilateral relations across the mediterranean as the new strategic reality. ten years on, spain is negotiating a plan with morocco to tackle immigration and promote cooperation with the countries of origin. partnership is certainly the way forward. however, until morocco’s border guards stop shooting unarmed refugees; until morocco stops dumping them near its borders unable to fend for themselves, the european union cannot, and should not, offer support for these proposals. most of those affected today are not moroccan nationals: they are third-country nationals who entered the union via morocco and who deserve the protection of our laws. up to now, plans for a european consensus on migration policy have been buried at the bottom of the political inbox. why? member states cannot agree on any one approach the european union suggests. but that does not stop them demanding european action when they face specific immigration problems of their own. the problems facing melilla and ceuta are not just spain’s problem: they are europe’s problem. the challenge in lampedusa is also europe’s problem, however much italy seeks to hide it from visiting meps. no wonder the southern countries of the barcelona process have run out of patience. we need to think bigger and to recognise, as kofi annan said, that ‘migrations are necessary’. we need a consensus on economic policy. we need doha and hong kong to bring results to help africa. when commissioner louis michel outlines his strategy for africa later today, i hope the member states will heed his message that it is time for a european consensus on development and immigration that respects the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
madam president, it is my view that the islamic republic of iran has much to offer the region and the wider world. she practices a more advanced form of democracy than most of her neighbours. theocracy or no theocracy, women’s rights in iran are far more developed than elsewhere in the region, with education for all and jobs, up to and including the vice-president of the state, open to all. with regard to the arts, please come to london to visit the british museum and see the great persepolis exhibition, opened by the vice-president of iran last month. i believe that iran’s reintegration into the international community is long overdue and sorely needed. the inevitable prerequisite is and must be the essential requirement to resolve the nuclear issue. however, to avoid the accurate potential charge of hypocrisy, it is just as important that the european union should pursue with equal aggression the policy of nuclear non-proliferation throughout the region. the european union’s single foreign policy demands no less.
madam president, we have heard about two key issues regarding iran: its programme to develop nuclear weapons and its record on human rights. however, a third factor is becoming apparent: iran’s role in training and equipping insurgents in iraq who are not only killing british and american soldiers, but also working to ensure that iraq’s painful transformation to a democratic state is unsuccessful. if iraq does not successfully transform into a democratic state, then the whole region will be destabilised. mr figeľ had nothing much to say except to offer more of the process of proffered dialogue and cooperation. as the british government has discovered over the last few years, this approach has so far not yielded much success. the seriousness of the situation and the difficulty in resolving it peacefully cannot be overstated, but it will not be solved by the european union. once again the eu presumes to take on the attributes of a political state. the serious situation posed by iran must be addressed by the properly constituted sovereign states working within the properly constituted international institutions. if the eu successfully develops its european defence identity – that is, an eu military force – and if turkey becomes a member of the eu, then a militarised eu will share a border not only with iran, but also with iraq and syria. if the current situation is alarming, then just imagine that one.
madam president, the situation in iran is on a knife edge. however, let me start by making it clear, including to the last-but-one speaker, that we would not be where we are today without the painstaking work of the ‘eu-3’. members across this house have called for a stronger, more decisive european foreign policy. our negotiations with iran have represented just such an example of what we can do when we work together. that is why it is right that today’s resolution calls for renewed negotiations, seeks to engage third countries internationally in support of our efforts and not as an alternative to them, and should be within the framework of the paris agreement of last november. in that context i am proud that the british foreign secretary said on 28 september ‘there is no question of us going to war against iran, this can only be resolved by diplomatic means and by diplomatic pressure’. today’s resolution is also right in saying that the breaking-off of the eu’s human rights dialogue with iran should be treated as seriously as the breakdown of talks on iran’s nuclear programme. indeed, tehran seeks to justify the arrest of human rights lawyer abdolfattah soltani by labelling him as a nuclear spy. whilst mr elbaradei should be warmly congratulated for his nobel peace prize, let us not forget today the former nobel prize winner, iranian human rights lawyer shirin ebadi, who is currently in receipt of personal threats against her because of her work. the political and human rights issues are intertwined and again i welcome the assurances given this afternoon by the president-in-office in this respect. finally, this morning further evidence came forward of the possible involvement of the iranian revolutionary guard in providing armour-piercing infra-red bomb technology to insurgents in iraq. whilst i cannot attest to these claims with certainty, when eight soldiers from my own country, the uk, have been killed in iraq in the last five months it is right that europe does its utmost to dissuade iran from the proliferation of civil as well as nuclear weapons.
mr president, iran remains a major headache for the eu and for our ally, the united states. there is the issue of iran’s attempts over the last 20 years to master uranium enrichment technology in a covert fashion with aid from pakistan’s a. q. khan and his nuclear technology bazaar. it is clear to any iran watcher that its hard-line fundamentalist government, in spite of its public denials, is determined to acquire a nuclear bomb and that enriching uranium to military grade is central to its security strategy. paragraph 12 of the resolution, therefore, is particularly appeasing in this respect and unacceptable. as iran is a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, this is also totally out of the question. i fully support the recent resolution of the iaea which paves the way for an eventual referral to the security council. i believe all options must be left open to prevent nuclear proliferation. we do not want a repeat of the example of north korea, which got away with withdrawing from the npt. and by the way, what did nobel peace prize laureate elbaradei and the iaea do to prevent the dprk’s acquiring of nuclear weapons? if it comes to un sanctions iran could usefully be denied access to the uranium ore as a raw material as it has only got about 35 tonnes of yellow cake uranium at present, which is enough to make one or two bombs at most. i also agree that iran has an appalling human rights record, including executing minors for sexual misdemeanours, and even pregnant women. i believe it is the only country in the world which executes pregnant women. lastly, i condemn iran’s role through its terrorist proxy hizbollah– which i call again on the council to ban – in supporting the insurgency in iraq and in supplying sophisticated bombs which are killing british and american soldiers and therefore preventing peace, the establishment of democracy and the reconstruction of that blighted country.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, honourable members, thank you for your contributions to what has been an important debate at an important time. i shall try to respond to a number of the points that have been made in the course of this timely debate. i start by echoing the contribution made by mr howitt and others in underlining how, over the last few months, we have genuinely shown what europe can do by working together. i pay tribute to the other colleagues in the e3 process who have shown the strength of europe’s diplomatic voice in challenging circumstances. a number of honourable members raised the issue of human rights. there is no reason why an islamic political system such as iran should deny fundamental democratic rights such as freedom of choice and freedom of expression. there can be no excuse for any system abusing human rights. ms beer and others echoed the appeal that i made earlier to tehran to free mr ganji and to reinforce the significance of the wider human rights agenda within iran. i reaffirm that call and let me echo the comments made by commissioner figel’, mr howitt and others on mr soltani. it is important to recognise that the united nations security council has a potentially significant role to play. i recognise that a number of contributions questioned the role of the security council. let there be little doubt in this house, however, that the prospect of a report to the united nations security council remains real. the responsibility in terms of the immediate steps that now need to be taken lies directly with the iranian authorities. the issue of military intervention has again been raised by a number of different honourable colleagues in the course of the debate – mr napoletano, ms beer, mr howitt and others – who expressed their concern at the possibility of military action being taken against iran. i would simply reiterate that on 3 october 2005, european foreign ministers reaffirmed the european union’s support for a diplomatic solution to international concerns over iran’s nuclear programme, which should include an agreement on long-term arrangements. such a solution would help create the climate for a better relationship with europe and with the wider international community. as i mentioned earlier, working and engaging with iran will be a challenge. but we must all do our best to meet that challenge. the benefits to iran and its people, to its neighbours and to the wider international community are literally incalculable. our preference remains to aim for a mutually beneficial relationship based on cooperation on our shared interests. europe wants to see iran realise its potential and to grow and prosper. that is what its young population deserves. but a relationship of this sort will also need to address the european union’s main concerns as reaffirmed today by so many honourable members within this chamber. those concerns unequivocally include both the issue of nuclear proliferation and the related issue of human rights. in conclusion, iran is at a particularly crucial juncture. the world is watching to see how its new government will manage its economic and social policies and to see if it will be a responsible partner as judged by how it deals with international concerns such as human rights and non-proliferation. i believe that the message from this chamber as regards the priorities of the european union will be clearer now than at the beginning of this debate.
member of the commission. first of all, i would like to thank the honourable members for their serious positions, which, by a large majority, express not only support for a common approach to the nuclear issue and therefore respect for the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but also concern very seriously the question of human rights and support for dialogue with the emerging civil society in iran. secondly, i would like to commend the comprehensive draft resolution which is a testament to the work of the political groups and which is actually an expression of support for the balanced, serious and responsible strategy towards iran that we are striving for. thirdly, i wish all of us continued constructive and effective unity between the member states of the union, the european institutions and the international community in this agenda, because sooner or later it will surely bear positive fruit.
mr president, speaking on behalf of the south asian delegation, of which i am chair, i would like to express my heartfelt and deepest condolences to all the friends and families who have lost loved ones in the earthquake in pakistan and india. this tragedy strikes a cord as the latest in a series of natural disasters in the region, and once again the world’s poorest need our help. with thousands dead and many more homeless and vulnerable, the spread of disease, extreme weather conditions and even criminal opportunities pose a threat to the people of the area. unfortunately, the relief work is not getting through fast enough. although i welcome the commission’s pledge of eur 3 million, it is not enough. therefore i am calling on the commission and the council to ensure that their response is commensurate with the scale of this tragedy. firstly, they need to urgently coordinate their efforts between the eu member states, so that the right type of aid reaches the area. secondly, they need to provide technical expertise and equipment and to undertake detailed needs assessment, so that no more people suffer as a result of negligence on the part of the international community. thirdly, we need to start thinking about the future and about how we respond to these disasters. i support the call by the presidency for a standing international fund to respond to disasters like the tsunami, hurricane katrina and the earthquake, as quickly and as effectively as possible.
thank you, mrs gill, i am sure we all share those sentiments.
special pleading for farmers has no sympathy from me.
mr president, our voters deserve to know whether their elected governments stand up for them at council of ministers meetings. but, of course, they cannot, because these proceedings are held in secret. that is why i was happy to be one of the authors of written declaration no 45, calling for an end to this and calling for openness and transparency in the council of ministers. i would urge other meps to sign this written declaration. i would say to the british presidency that this gives it an opportunity. it was in this very room that tony blair said that he wanted to give a lead in europe and to re-engage the peoples of europe. here is something that the british presidency could do easily and painlessly: end the secrecy; chalk up a success for the british presidency. i suspect that by the end of december mr blair is going to need to have had one or two successes.
i should just like to report that national parliaments meeting under cosac on monday resolved that the council should meet in public, so you have support there too, mr farage.
mr president, i would like to thank you and the office of the president for responding to the request from the kashmiri community in my constituency, and indeed the kashmiri mayor of manchester, afzal khan, to send condolences and aid to the victims of the earthquake. the death toll is rising; at least two million people are homeless with winter just weeks away. a terrible tragedy requires dramatic and speedy action and a generosity of financing and support to meet the aims and match the funding that we gave to the victims of the tsunami crisis as well. dm digital television, a tv company in my region, has been contacted by frantic relatives from across europe seeking urgent help for orphans. i would ask the commission to prioritise assistance to children and to orphans, to assist families and relatives in europe and the uk to adopt orphans if they wish to, and to get assistance from the government and immigration authorities to enable this to go ahead. i would also ask for urgent medical attention to be provided. i would ask the commission and the eu to act on this request as urgently as possible to assist those children and those orphans in need.
mr president, following on from the recent earthquake, i also wish to send my condolences. however, can the president of parliament use his good offices to persuade the governments of both india and pakistan to allow aid to cross unheeded over the line of control? i am delighted to hear that, so far, five families from pakistan kashmir and one from indian-controlled kashmir have been allowed to go home. that is a step in the right direction. however, i also understand that many individuals and organisations from the indian side are being told that, because of the dispute that has been going on for over 50 years between india and pakistan over kashmir, they are not allowed to cross the border to give help to the victims. i hope that old enmities will continue to be put behind them and for them to concentrate only on the provision of humanitarian aid.
mr president, i speak on behalf of one of my constituents, john packwood, a british citizen who has recently been extradited from spain to morocco to face charges of drug smuggling in spite of a complete lack of evidence. not only has he suffered a gross miscarriage of justice, but he is also the victim of discrimination on grounds of nationality, contrary to the letter and spirit of eu law. mr packwood was extradited under a highly discriminatory treaty between spain and morocco. it exempts spanish nationals from extradition, but provides that other eu nationals can be extradited without the spanish authorities being in any way obliged to investigate the merits of the case. this is directly contrary to the ec treaty ban on discrimination on the grounds of nationality and is fundamentally incompatible with the values of the eu. i therefore call on the president of the parliament and, in particular, commissioner frattini to take action to ensure the reality of an eu area of freedom, justice and security is put in place, by remedying both the injustice and the discrimination mr packwood is suffering. would the president of the parliament please write to the moroccan authorities to raise this?
mr president, last week the european court of justice made a ruling that british prisoners should have the right to vote in elections. this followed an appeal by a british prisoner that his human rights were being violated by the english law that prevents prisoners from voting. the european court of justice is of course not a court of justice. its purpose is to ensure that the political will of the european union is enforced in member states. this particular piece of idiocy is a direct consequence of the labour government’s decision in 1998 to incorporate the european convention on human rights into english law. if enforced, this verdict means that ian huntley, the soham murderer; ian brady, the moors murderer: robert black, the child killer; and every paedophile and criminal in british prisons will have a say in what kind of government we elect. this ruling clearly demonstrates why britain should regain control of its own affairs.
mr president, mrs sinnott and i have tabled two written declarations that focus members’ attention on the fact that the lower rates of value added tax will finish at the end of december 2005 unless the council of ministers take the right and proper decision to extend them. we also try to extend the area of choice to make sure that the aged and the disabled will benefit from lower rates of vat, which will give them cheaper housing accommodation, particularly when they have adaptations carried out. at present, the construction industry – i chair the construction forum in the european parliament – has no idea whether these lower rates of value added tax will continue in a few weeks’ time. it is important that early decisions are made.
thank you for that. i am sure mr michel was listening with interest. that concludes the one-minute speeches. those that require an answer will of course receive an answer from the institution.
the next item is the commission communication on eu policy on africa.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, if this new eu strategy were really adding value to existing programmes and polices, my group would support it. africa urgently needs our strong support, including technology transfer, debt cancellation, resources for development and fair terms of trade delivered in a coherent way. i hope this strategy will deliver greater coherence and added value. however, i am not convinced, not least because it does not evaluate the impact of our past policies and does not foresee any additional financial instrument to deliver better policies in the future. what it offers is more of the same failed policies, because the shocking fact is that the number of people living in poverty in africa continues to grow. what we need from the commission is not a change of documents, but a change of policy, in particular trade policy, which continues to undermine africa’s development potential. on economic partnership agreements, acp countries must have the guarantee of continued non-reciprocal access if they choose it. at the world trade organization, the commission must ensure that negotiations on non-agricultural market access take into full account the needs of african countries to protect their infant industries. on commodity prices, we must have action to reverse declining commodity prices. on services, the commission must abandon its new benchmarking proposal that would force poorer countries to open their service sectors, in complete contradiction to what the commission has guaranteed in the past about flexibility on services. on agriculture, of course, we need a complete end to export dumping, as well as support to african countries, to enable them to protect their agriculture up to the point of self-sufficiency. the agenda of liberalisation, privatisation and deregulation has failed to deliver growth or poverty eradication. a new strategy must be based on new values: the values of fair trade and cooperation, rather than free trade and more competition. that is what we need to see from the commission.
mr president, i liked what i heard in the commissioner’s speech. one thing in particular was the theme of respect and partnership; respect for the people of africa and partnership with them. i would start by saying that if you talk to people from africa, they say ‘too often you in europe only talk about drought and famine and all the bad things about africa, why do you not sometimes celebrate the good things about africa?’. i think that is what the commissioner was doing. it is what we should do. we should draw out the talents of africans. we should build on the resources of africa. i very much welcome the commissioner’s contribution and the communication. clearly the millennium development goals are fundamental to this. i would like to see even more emphasis on health and education; they were certainly highlighted in his speech, although they take a bit of finding. we went through peace, security, good governance, economic growth, trade and interconnection – whatever that means – before we got there. i am sure those things are all fundamentally important, but so too are health and education. as a small example the twinning partnerships are highlighted. yes, twinning partnerships are good: we have them recommended for schools and towns and even museums, why not for hospitals too? why not for teaching hospitals, why not for health teams and ngos in the health field? i would like to see and hear more about the commissioner’s previous commitments to me on neglected diseases and the reports we have brought through parliament in the past. there is so much more to be done on that. i would like finally to highlight one thing which has come from africa itself, and that is its first food safety plan. we all often call for people to help africa to make its food safe and secure; here they are doing something about it. however, if i just cite one figure: the failure to meet new food standards that came from the european union in 2001 resulted in a 64% drop in exports from africa of cereals, dried fruit and nuts – a loss of usd 670 million. that is just one example of why we need to work with africa to use its talents to help africans help themselves.
mr president, i would like to focus on how i think we, as europeans, should put our own house in order. first of all, on trade, it is essential to end the subsidies to farmers in europe which keep prices low and squeeze african commodities out of our markets, as well as the export subsidies that allow cheap food to be dumped in africa. high tariffs, keeping out african goods, need to be cut, but african countries need time before opening up their markets. they do not have in place those safety nets, which we might have, to protect their workforce. in addition, we need to urge member states to sign up to the un convention on corruption. member states should be held responsible for corrupt practices by their own staff and agents. that does not appear in the report and i think it is something that member states like my own should be urged to sign up to. since 9/11 there has been a tightening up on corruption, but it is still not treated with the same seriousness as terrorism or drugs. it also necessary for europe to stop encouraging the brain-drain from africa. this is not on the report either, but it makes an enormous difference, particularly in health services in africa. finally, i turn to the arms trade, which nobody has mentioned. the arms and mines which are killing thousands of people and have done so in africa over generations were mostly made in the soviet union. as we know, however, they are traded, dealt with and circulated around europe. they are based in europe. we must, as europeans, do far more to control arms brokering and the transit trade which takes place from our own continent. these are responsibilities that we must take as europeans and we must not try to place the onus of responsibility simply on africans.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by commenting on the speeches by mrs morgantini and the last speaker, who referred to what is happening at the doorstep of europe. i'm just like you. i am one of those who believe that the real answer to the desperation or the hopelessness of human beings is obviously not to close the doors, to be brutal or inhuman. the real answer is strong development policies, very advanced policies that open up opportunities in the countries that are the source of migration flows. the answer is there, and the strategy i have presented to you seems to me to offer an ambitious response to this desire to resolve this kind of tragedy, injustice and inequality in a lasting way. so it is only natural that i share your sensibilities on these issues. we have discussed this with mr konaré, from the african union commission to the european union commission, and we would be quite inspired to consider, as you have done, that the problem is not limited to spain or morocco: it is the problem of the whole of africa and of the whole of the european union. if we do not have the political capacity to resolve this issue at european union level in the framework of a genuine partnership, a genuine political dialogue with the african continent, we will never find a solution, we will continue to experience tragedies of the same kind and we will continue to deserve the reproach of having been unable to carry out an essential task. ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you that i cannot fall into the trap that could be unwittingly, or at any rate unintentionally, set for me in parliament. i think we need to be clear on this: i do not want my plan for africa to become a kind of christmas tree on which every parliamentarian, or every lobbyist, or every ngo, or every member of civil society, would come and hang their ball at the risk of losing the essential. i really want to use this plan, and i ask you to help me with it, to define, without setting priorities or excluding anything, a direction, a framework and that we cannot blur the outlines by adding all kinds of things which are obviously, in themselves, extremely important but which could obscure the essential. we talked about the effectiveness of the strategy. you can't ask the commissioner to stand up for something he doesn't fully control. as far as the commission is concerned, you have only my goodwill and commitment. i also ask you to help me to convince the member states. what is perhaps peculiar about my proposal is that i am trying to draw up a framework, a common strategy between the commission and the member states to enable a better sharing of the work of development aid. that is my plan: to try to have a framework, objectives and strategy together, to define them together and to try to involve in this strategy groups of member states which are more particularly interested in a particular sector or region, and to ensure that we can share the work more effectively. it would also allow us to make savings upstream of all the processes, projects and procedures for examining files which otherwise generate, it must be said, a great deal of duplication, overlap and administrative work. i would remind you that we have 26 different regulations today. this is what our partners are facing. what i hope to do with this plan is to create the momentum and political will to reduce all these regulations, to bring them together, to simplify them. we would gain a great deal in efficiency, and above all our policy would be more effective. the member states will therefore have a crucial role to play. someone asked me, curiously enough, why are you focusing on infrastructure? you have to know what you want. i think we can all agree that the principle of ownership is essential. we all agree that africans should tell us what their priorities are. well, specifically, and i'm addressing the person who asked me a bit curiously about this question, the africans have asked us to focus on infrastructure first. and i have to tell you that you don't have to be african to understand the importance of this choice. anyone who goes to africa or knows africa deeply realizes that as long as there are no trans-african networks, trans-african communities, there will be no economic redeployment in africa, we have to forget about it. so that's why we're focusing on infrastructure. i would add that we have not forgotten education or health. i agree with all those who have spoken on this subject and if anyone is sensitive to this, it is me. i would like to refer you to page 33 of the document where it is explained at length that we will of course focus on education. i would also like to know why i would like to see a debate on the priority to be given to budgetary aid when possible. it is precisely to ensure that countries, that states can implement a policy of domination, in the field of, for example, education; that they can finance their teachers, the salaries of teachers, which is not often the case at present. so i think i am extremely sensitive to the priority given to education. i cannot give you an exhaustive list of all the priorities, but i want you to know that i share them and i wanted to make them clear. as regards natural resources, you will see in the document that we are considering including among the conditions for budgetary aid to partner countries the allocation of the proceeds from the exploitation of their natural resources to national budgets. you are quite right to emphasize that. it is quite abnormal that in a number of countries which have natural resources, which unfortunately are often squandered or sometimes looted, it is quite abnormal that in those countries which are potentially rich, there is no trace of these resources in the national budgets, when they could finance the regulation policies we have been talking about. i would like to touch on two other aspects, starting with weapons. i'd like to nuance what i'm hearing here. when it is said that europe is one of the arms suppliers to africa, i am consciously against this assertion. i do not dispute that there are countries in europe's neighbourhood which are liquidating stocks from the old days. i recognize that there is an illegal trade which we are trying to combat. but i would remind you that at european level there is a code of conduct which the member states have undertaken to respect. so, in principle, when a country in africa or elsewhere is in conflict, the member countries of the european union cannot grant an export licence for it. that is what i wanted to say, and we will continue to do so. my last remark will be on trade. it is clear that the wto negotiations must put development at the centre of their concerns. i can assure you that my colleague peter mendelson is doing this and we are of course supporting him. for example, we are the world's largest provider of trade-related aid. i would remind you of president barroso's statement at the g8 summit: one billion a year. i would remind you of another obvious fact: we are the only ones in the world who practice the everything but arms process. as far as agricultural policy is concerned, there is agreement in principle on the doha agenda, there has been a reform of the cap, and this is already a great step forward. is that enough? probably not, but you don't have to be an angel either. we must be aware that european interests and those of certain countries are at stake and that this is what prevents us from going faster, from going further. you have to be aware of that. i do not think it is useful to turn a blind eye to the national realities of agricultural policy. as regards the economic partnership agreements, the epas, their aim is development, in particular through assistance for regional integration. for example, promoting south-south trade is a priority for africans. president konaré explained this to us this morning. of course there will be adjustment costs and in that respect too we are assisting them. all this is obviously very ideological and i always have a lot of respect for ideological "excesses", because i can understand them. they come from the heart, which inspires great respect and understanding. that said, does the current system help developing countries? i would draw your attention to the fact that despite all our preferences, despite all the preferential systems in place, the share of our 'preferential' partners in world trade has been steadily decreasing. they need to be given the means to really adapt and integrate into the global economy. i would like to conclude with a final remark, because i think it is important: it is not the small acp countries that will benefit most from these preferences, but the large exporters such as brazil. that's how useful nuance is. mr president, i may have been a little overwhelmed and i apologize for that, but there were so many good questions that i wanted to try to answer as many of them as possible.
once again, we witness the eu throwing stones from its glass house. a few weeks ago, it was telling iraq how to draw up a constitution, despite its own difficulties in that regard. today, it unveils its "strategy for africa", preaching with sheer effrontery about good governance. the problem with african democracy, the commission has the nerve to say, is "limited information" and "endemic corruption"; there is a "crisis of legitimacy", with a "growing disconnect between the 'legality' of the state apparatus and its legitimacy in the eyes of ordinary people." sounds familiar? well, here's a real gem from the document: "too often, elections become a source of conflict, because the losing side does not accept defeat." it is just months since we heard the then president of the eu council, jean-claude juncker, saying that he refused to believe the french and dutch voted "no" to the constitution. so i say to the commission - and to all the politicians in this parliament who share mr juncker's view - africa does not need any lessons from you, but if you really want to set an example, accept defeat on the constitution. face up to the fact that voters put you on the losing side. and before you preach any more sermons, start addressing your own bad governance here.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the coordinated action of the european union in dealing with this crisis. the british presidency, the high representative javier solana and i have maintained constant high-level contacts. the message of the european union, relayed by the troika in addis ababa, was and is to call on all political parties to keep the electoral process and political dialogue on track. i also welcome the progress made since 2 october in the dialogue between the government and the opposition. there was a serious risk of a slip-up and a risk of the country being dragged into a completely hopeless scenario. i wrote to the prime minister expressing my concern about the atmosphere of tension between the various political forces and the need to keep all channels of dialogue open. the release of all political prisoners and the reopening of opposition party offices, which were closed by the authorities, will go in this direction. i have been following with great interest the opening session of the ethiopian federal parliament and the re-election of prime minister meles zenawi on 10 and 11 october. the proper and normal functioning of parliament is an essential condition for a multiparty political life in ethiopia and for the establishment of democracy in that country. i met with prime minister meles zenawi three times before this phase. i have, on each occasion, repeated to him with insistence our expectations as to how to deal with the opposition. i think that's absolutely essential. if the absence of the largest opposition party, the cud, from the ethiopian parliament were to continue, it could become a factor of instability. this also concerns the establishment of the new majority for the administration of the capital addis ababa. i am convinced that the european union must continue to engage in a constructive but firm and demanding dialogue with all parties in order to continue to weigh in and influence positively the process under way in ethiopia. that is what i intend to do in the context of political dialogue. one last word: i am concerned about the renewed tension between ethiopia and eritrea. the european union must also be vigilant in this respect.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, i was part of the european parliament delegation which observed the polling day on 15 may. i spoke for the delegation at the press conference on 17 may, saying that the elections represented an important step forward in the democratisation process in ethiopia. therefore i feel great personal sadness and shock at the deterioration in the situation since then. regarding the election, we must keep faith with the facts observed by the european union observation mission and the carter center, which are that the process leading up to the 15 may was well run, but that the process after 15 may had some irregularities. it is now five months since the election. the whole point of a democratic election is to put in place a functioning democratic assembly. this has not happened, and i would beseech sides – the ruling party and the opposition – to continue the dialogue to resolve their differences. unless the end result is a functioning parliament in which politicians of all persuasions are active, then the election process has ultimately failed. surely that would be a betrayal of the 90% of ethiopian electors who cast a vote on 15 may, often after queuing for many hours. they had faith in the electoral process. i hope the leaders they elected will keep to that faith. clearly the government has a responsibility to respect the fundamental principles of the constitution and ensure fundamental freedoms and human rights. the ethiopian government must guarantee that opposition party members are not intimidated or detained without trial. the government also needs to reopen access for opposition parties to the media. in the run-up to 15 may, parties all had good access, but this is no longer the case. the fact that opposition leaders who have stated their commitment to working within a constitutional framework cannot easily communicate through the media to their own supporters is particularly dangerous at a time when everybody needs to stay calm. there are no winners in the current impasse. if the political process breaks down, then it is not just the opposition parties in ethiopia who will be the losers. ethiopia as a nation will be the loser, because it will go overnight from being a leading light in africa, a beacon for hope and progress whose president chaired the commission for africa, to becoming a failed state. i do not think ethiopia deserves to become the latest african basket case. so i would plead with all parties to persevere with the negotiation process.
mr president, i have observed that the representatives of the british presidency of the council are not present. they were not present in the debate before – there will be some very good reasons why – but could we just ask that the next time education is debated the presidency – british or otherwise – should be present? (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, mr bono’s report comes at a crucial moment for the lisbon strategy. we are in the middle of the road and the role of education and training in implementing the strategy now is being increasingly discussed and supported. i am glad to note that such support is also expressed in this report and in this house, in particular with regard to parliament’s position on the financial perspective and on education within this framework. i think that europe’s greatest assets are brains, knowledge, skills and the creativity of our citizens. in particular, i want to thank mr bono for his excellent work. the ideas developed in this report will be very helpful for the commission. as you rightly state, education is the cornerstone of the lisbon process. indeed, there will be no serious increase of growth, innovation, employment and social cohesion in the union without an increasingly efficient investment in human resources through education and training. your report helps us very much to voice that central message to policy makers. the report underlines a number of areas which are of major strategic importance for the success of the lisbon strategy. let me emphasise just three such areas, where we consider that substantial progress needs to be made in the near future. firstly, with regard to lifelong learning strategies, member states have committed themselves to developing such strategies by 2006. we will continue to follow national developments in this area very closely. more and more countries are defining national strategies but implementation remains the key challenge across europe. secondly, we appreciate the report’s focus on the needs of the less advantaged, as well as target groups such as young people – as is required now by the european youth pact – and jobseekers. i am particularly concerned about the lack of progress as compared to the eu benchmarks, which relate most closely to social inclusion. unless further significant efforts are made in the areas of early school leaving, completion of upper secondary education and the key competences, a larger proportion of the next generation will face social exclusion at a great cost to themselves, the economy and to society. the commission plans to adopt a draft recommendation on the issue of key competences for lifelong learning, which we hope will make a vital contribution to the necessary reforms in this important area. thirdly, i shall refer to the issue of improving governance. perhaps the biggest challenge of all in making lifelong learning a reality is the need to reform the modes of governance of the systems. governance needs to be coherent and coordinated, requires synergy between the relevant ministries, strong social dialogue and the awareness and active involvement of other key stakeholders. we intend to follow up on these areas closely, through concrete peer learning activities whereby member states support each other in the implementation of reforms by learning from the experiences of other member states. in parallel, we are continuing to develop the european area of education and training. we are currently consulting on a proposal for the european qualifications framework, which we hope will provide a very concrete contribution to support greater mobility of students, trainees and workers. i wish to thank parliament for its continued support, especially with regard to the priority given to education and training in the context of the discussions on the financial perspectives.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i rose on a point of order which sounds a little impolite to draw attention publicly to the fact that the presidency of the council is not present. the title of mr bono’s report in english is ‘education as the cornerstone of the lisbon process’. in the english language i would prefer to delete ‘corner’ and insert ‘key’. a keystone in an arch is the central piece. if it is weakened or falls out, the whole structure disappears. a cornerstone is the one at the corner. monsieur le rapporteur, vous vous êtes exprimé en français et vous avez utilisé l'expression "au coeur du processus de lisbonne". keystone et au coeur, c'est la même chose. commissioner figel’, with your customary politeness you have expressed the commission’s correct view that education should be au coeur: it should be the keystone. my government is not here. i have no particular problem with my government – my prime minister made a wonderful speech here. i have a small political problem, which is that he does not represent my party, but even if it were my party in government, i would criticise my party and my government as i criticise my opponents, because they never take education seriously. we are failing our young people, we are failing because we think we know how to teach. there are many members of the committee who were teachers in their earlier professional lives. teachers know about teaching, governments know nothing about education. governments know nothing about job creation. employers create jobs, governments do not. governments frustrate the creation of jobs. they frustrate the profession of the teachers. i will give just one example, very briefly, of british teachers trained in england who cannot find employment in france or italy because the educational authorities deny respect for their qualifications because they come from a different member state. i am running out of time, so i shall conclude by saying that something must be done. if you are a teacher in england and you want to teach in france, italy or lithuania you should be able to do so. when i next have the opportunity of speaking to the british presidency, i will continue this discussion. but i would urge everybody to support the bono report, my group will do so.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, this report calls for greater investment in education in an attempt to achieve the lisbon objectives. it might even reflect a call by my prime minister, tony blair, who in 1997 launched his general election campaign with the mantra ‘education, education, education’. however, decisions on education must be made by the member states. it is certainly not within the competence of the eu, despite the wish that it should be. the lack of realism within this report is emphasised by the appeal for a 15% increase in the number of science graduates in the eu between now and 2010. this is unachievable because young scientists, once graduated, are emigrating in ever-increasing numbers, mainly to the united states. even today the commission’s own survey says 400 000 european science and technology graduates have emigrated to find jobs. why is this? the answer is startlingly simple: endless eu regulation and red tape is smothering innovative businesses, leaving them with little choice but to relocate or close down. in this context the report serves to highlight the fact that, irrespective of the level of investment made by the member states in education and training, if businesses and industry have relocated due to suffocating regulation, the investment will not be returned. this report ignores the fact that, at the current rate of progress, the lisbon objectives will not be reached. attempts to prevent this failure, even by further eu misguidance, are doomed to fail. as i have said before, if the eu is the answer, it must have been a stupid question. you do not have to be a graduate to understand that.
mr president, it is sad that education, which we have agreed is the cornerstone, le coeur and the keystone, is always on very late at night, and that my government is not here. however, my government’s representatives are here, and i apologise to them formally: i am wearing the british presidency tie and i come here and make rude remarks about the british government, which is offside and i do apologise. je vais essayer de m'exprimer en français. je ne vais pas le faire pour me vanter mais parce que le débat porte sur l'intégration des immigrés grâce à des écoles et à un enseignement plurilingues. "intégration des immigrés", c'est normal, c'est bien; "grâce à des écoles et à un enseignement plurilingues", c'est très bien. do we really learn foreign languages in our schools? well, in england we certainly do not. because the way we teach foreign languages in england is the way we learned latin and greek: we are very good at grammar, we are very good at literature: "pour qui sont ces serpents qui sifflent sur vos têtes?". that is racine. i could say that aged 18. could i buy a ticket on the metro? no! so how do we integrate immigrants? there is a problem with the word ‘immigrant’. if you look at the history of my country, it was described as an english historian as a history of immigrants – rather shocking. this is not a history lesson, but only two princesses of wales were english women: lady diana spencer and anne neville. anne neville married edward of lancaster, the only english king to be crowned king of france in france. i have no time to explain further. the ppe-de group supports this report. may i please ask, when we are discussing something serious, that colleagues with a lifetime of experience be given more than two minutes to speak – maybe three minutes?
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur mrs pack for her excellent work and the own-initiative report. the report covers all dimensions of the circus. the commission will of course carefully study the recommendations of the report. however, already at this stage i would like to make some comments on some of the main elements. the parliament would like the circus to be recognised as forming part of european culture. of course, it is not for the commission to decide what belongs or does not belong to european culture. this seems to be a natural process and the circus seems naturally to be recognised as part of our culture. a good illustration of this at community level is that many cooperation projects in the circus sector are co-financed under the eu culture programmes, for example, the cirque nouveau project, a network of circus schools and music schools co-financed under the culture 2000 programme. the report also underlines the importance of taking special measures to help the children of travelling families such as the circus community. the education of pupils with educational disadvantage due to special circumstances is a very important matter. these children should be provided as much as possible with flexible learning settings. the commission proposes to launch a study in 2006 in order to update the 1996 report on the steps taken by member states to follow up the resolution of council from 1989 – 16 years ago – on school provisions for children of occupational travellers. the commission has been invited to look at the development of responses to the special needs of this target public. we propose that the european agency for special needs education should examine this in its work programme for 2006-2007 period. the current socrates and leonardo programmes already provide support to projects dealing with travelling children and families. this will be continued in the future integrated lifelong learning programme. therefore i invite the organisations representing the circus community to make full use of the possibilities offered by community programmes. i know that mrs pack, who is also rapporteur for the very important new lifelong learning programme, is fully aware of the possibilities offered by these programmes. the report also requests that we establish european standards for mobile circus facilities. i am pleased to inform you that the commission has already mandated the european committee for standardisation to establish a european standard for the safety of temporary structures, in particular tents. this european standard should be published by our standardisation organisation in the coming months. the commission is ready to look at possible further european standards with the circus community. according to the report, the commission should facilitate the mobility and employment of circus workers from third countries. current eu legislation does not provide for the possibility of issuing visas or residence permits which accommodate the needs of artists. we are very much aware of the difficulties encountered by the artists in obtaining visas which are longer than six months. the commission will duly take this into consideration when reflecting the future of immigration policy in europe. in conclusion, i would like to borrow words from the french acting and singing teacher francois delsarte: ‘the artist is a traveller on this earth’. this is particularly true of circus professionals. mrs pack has put them on the map. her report will undoubtedly contribute to better recognition of the circus as part of europe’s culture and to more account being taken of its specific needs in the formulation of our policies. i can assure you that where there is a clear role for the commission, i will do my utmost.
mr president, it is entirely appropriate that we should be debating the circus in this house, considering that the european parliament is the biggest travelling circus in the world, although i fear that many of my constituents in the english east midlands may wonder if we do not have more important issues to address. i have been approached by members of the public who worry about the use of animals in circuses and the possibility of cruel or harmful treatment. i share their concern. i urge member state governments to ensure that circus animals are subject to appropriate regulation and inspection. however, i believe that the idea of banning animals from circuses goes too far. it is one thing to support animal welfare; it is quite another to ban a much-loved and traditional feature of the circus, which, as mrs pack’s report rightly says, is a recognised and ancient part of european culture. there is a close parallel here with the issue of hunting, another target of the animal rights movement. the same criteria apply: hunting should be, and normally is, conducted with due attention to animal welfare issues. however, english fox hunting – like the circus – is a vital part of english cultural heritage and especially so in the east midlands, which i represent. i would oppose any move to ban animals from circuses and i oppose the unjust and counterproductive ban on fox hunting recently introduced in my own country.
mr president, most of us agree that the committee on women’s rights and gender equality does yeoman work – well, at least in my view, as much as other committee. while i recognise the basic direction behind this report and the difficulties some women face on remuneration, and i wholeheartedly support the need for better statistical information on this particular topic, i have to draw the house’s attention to the double standards that we employ. today you can buy this magazine in the parliament’s shop: it is hardcore pornography. although an american publication, it depicts eastern european models, i suspect because of the poverty referred to by mrs záborská’s team. it is the tip of the iceberg of exploitation and people trafficking, subjects highlighted by this very report. yet it is for sale here. i find the hypocrisy of the european parliament on this subject, like so many, many others, sadly predictable.
mr president, the report states that it is essential to create the new europe on the basis of the creative cooperation of cultures. no it is not! cultures and men are largely responsible for being the greatest repressors of women in europe. and yet white, western liberal women – like those represented here – run scared of attacking the dangerous nonsense of multiculturalism and turn a blind eye to the way in which ethnic minority women in places like my constituency, for example, are abused; where women are repressed and treated as chattels of men; where they are not allowed to be educated; where they are not allowed to go to work; where they are not allowed to go outside; where they are ghettoised within the ghetto. worse, they are genitally mutilated; they are told to cover their bodies; they are forced into marriages; they are the object of honour killings, which the police have testified in derbyshire and the metropolitan area. if we are to give women full rights, they need to be liberated from cultures and from men. they need to be emancipated so that their lives can be equal and enriched and poverty can be eliminated. the question is, do the women here have the balls to carry out the job?
mr president, in the budget there is a whole title devoted to agriculture and rural development which indeed gobbles up half the available eu money, but there is no heading for urban support, despite the fact that, as mr beaupuy’s report reminds us, four-fifths of europeans live in towns and cities. some of the worst deprivation, the most severe needs and the biggest environmental challenges are indeed found in our towns and cities. however, i say to mr libicki that they are also the source of europe’s greatest dynamism, prosperity and cultural richness. we pay the bills. i can and do argue to my eight million constituents in london – a figure, incidentally, which makes us a city state larger than 11 member states but without the equivalent representation – that they should pay for sustainable rural development. however, i cannot and will not persuade them that their hard-earned tax money should assist the purchase of another mercedes for a cereal baron. nor can i honestly explain to them why the interests of the 80% majority are so overlooked in eu policy. that is why i so welcome mr beaupuy’s report and indeed his leadership of the urban and housing intergroup in this parliament. i also welcome commissioner hubner’s promise of a study on the contribution of cities to regional development and the uk presidency’s apparent intentions to make urban development a specific objective. it is a pity the presidency is not represented here today. my own particular concern is with the impact of justice and security policies on urban areas. asylum and immigration, and policies on tackling crime and terrorism, are of crucial concern to cities. it is here that most migrants arrive. it is among the ethnic minority communities of cities like london, paris, madrid, amsterdam and brussels that we seek cooperation to counter terrorist threats, but where alienation and poverty are sources of tension which repressive policing will only inflame. i would be grateful if the rapporteur is able – as he has kindly indicated that he wishes to do – to make some small oral amendments to mention justice, security and liberty policies in his excellent report.
mr president, urban development quite properly does not fall within the direct remit of the european union, though in nation states it is substantially influenced by regional and other policies from europe. under urban ii in my constituency in northern ireland, we benefited from a very worthwhile programme in north belfast. however, with urban ii coming to an end, a similar need in highly deprived areas in east and south belfast remains unmet. these are some of the areas which featured most prominently in recent street disturbances and which show high levels of deprivation and neglect. they need far-reaching and tangible help. i note in terms of the future that the legislative proposal for regional policy from 2007 explicitly embraces an urban dimension and, within the competitiveness and employment objective for which my region will qualify, there is a commitment to concentrate on areas which have the most serious problems. thus, in terms of those deprived areas of belfast that i have mentioned, i certainly will be looking for a meaningful programme of assistance.
the urban dimension in regional policy is of course important, in scotland we have our major cities glasgow, edinburgh adn others and all have benefitted from eu engagement with reginoal policy. my overriding concern on all regional policy matters is that the overall budget is still to be agreed, and the disastrous policies of the uk government ni particular would see regional policy suffer most from their planned cuts. the parliament has spoken with a strong voice in the boge report, and we must ensure that this remains our view.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– madam president, the common fisheries policy is without doubt one of the most disastrous of all eu common policies. it has inflicted incredible damage on the ecology of the north sea and has done absolutely nothing for conservation. not satisfied with this disaster, the eu is actually encouraging its repetition in african coastal waters. you can therefore imagine the cynicism with which i read this proposal for special technical measures to improve the conservation situation in the baltic sea. the rapporteur has produced an extraordinarily unhelpful explanatory statement, which is really little more than a blow-by-painful-blow account of a paper trail. at the end there is a complicated appendix which seeks to lay down the law on the specifications for codends and even the exact size and shape of codend buoys. why this house should be preoccupying itself with such minutiae is beyond me, unless it is yet another symptom of the european union’s limitless propensity for control-freakism. doubtless these technical specifications will have been dreamt up by bureaucrats without the slightest experience of sea fishing and will therefore cause enormous problems for the people who have to have such experience and work on a daily basis. i do not believe that the eu has any business in involving itself in conservation in the baltic, or anywhere else for that matter. these issues should be resolved by sensible negotiation between national government and fishermen, not by an unelected bureaucracy with an absolutely appalling track record for environmental vandalism.
mr president, last month in strasbourg i raised a similar point of order under rule 130, because council question time, which was supposed to last an hour, lasted no more than 35 minutes. the presidency-in-office of the council clearly thought it more important to make a telephone call than to answer our questions. like all those meps on the list to ask questions i was at least expecting a written answer immediately afterwards. it did not happen. i was then promised a written answer by last thursday, but that did not happen either and i still have not received an answer. i understand that this is first time under any presidency that meps’ questions have gone unanswered for so long. can i ask our own president please to ensure that at the next strasbourg session we get not only a proper explanation, but also an apology? finally, i should like to ask that we also get an acknowledgement from the council that question time is not just a time for meps to ask questions: it is also a time for the presidency-in-office to provide answers. (loud applause)
in writing. i welcome this timely report into the deepening trade relationship between the eu and china in the 21st century. it is not often that parliamentarians have the chance to consider the underlying trends in the development of international politics but this report does so. i fully endorse the focus given by the rapporteur to the challenges posed to eu industry by the rapid growth of the chinese economy in both unskilled labour-intensive industry as well as high-tech domains. the paragraphs which draw attention to the growing problem of declining labour standards and unfair trading practices are particularly important in the run-up to the hong kong ministerial meeting of the wto in december. by highlighting these challenges meps have voted for a constructive dialogue with the chinese in which broader questions of the social and environmental impact of rapid economic growth are taken into account.
mr president, i abstained on the resolution on iran, and many of my british conservative colleagues voted against, as amendment l – making a referral to the united nations security council a requirement – was rejected. this is very regrettable. i also did not like the fact that paragraph 7 was included in the report. that paragraph restricts the eventual options available to the west to prevent the development by iran of a nuclear weapon. i fully support the condemnation of iran in the resolution for its brutal human rights track record, including the execution of minors for sexual chastity offences.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party strongly supports the resolution on iran, particularly the recognition given to the efforts of the eu3 to reach a diplomatic solution, the affirmation that the only way to resolve the problem is through diplomatic pressure, with iran returning to talks based on the paris agreement, and the importance of the resumption of the human rights dialogue with iran. however, it is unhelpful (in amendment 12) to use this resolution to criticise the review of the us security strategy at this stage, whilst the precise plans and intentions for the review remain unclear and as yet unpublished.
in writing. the report in question highlights the fact that a working dialogue between the eu and iran is of the utmost importance to both parties concerned. it is for this reason that i welcome the resolution whilst emphasising the fact that the eu should seek to be in good relations with iran as it is a potentially important partner for the eu. i share the view that iran should reingage in a human rights dialogue with the eu whilst agreeing with the need to resist nuclear proliferation. furthermore, i urge the eu to treat iran with the respect that such a significant and important country deserves.
in writing. i welcome the report concerning the new challenges for the circus as part of european culture. it is imperative that an adequate and non discriminatory education is provided to all children of travelling communities regardless of the member state in which they temporarily reside. it is of equal importance that the welfare and mobility rights of circus workers are protected through the use of short-term residence permits. however, it is a source of deep concern that the report includes the presentation of animals as i strongly oppose the use of animals in the circus. it is now both the commission and the member states' responsibility to reflect on the point in question.
mr president, there is a very good sunday newspaper in britain called the business. yesterday's edition was of particular interest. it reports that british economic growth forecasts for 2005 and 2006 are being revised downwards. a survey from morgan stanley reveals that europe's largest companies are planning to make 40% of their investments outside the european union. the reason for this is obvious. it is the brake on enterprise and business exerted by the ever-growing bonds of regulation and red tape from the european union. a report from open europe and oxford economic forecasting shows that the united kingdom could increase its gross domestic product by 1.4% if it traded freely with the rest of the world, while maintaining a free trade agreement with the european union. in other words, leave the european union, but trade freely with europe and the world. that, of course, is the policy of the united kingdom independence party. common sense may eventually prevail.
mr president, members will know – and have been very concerned recently – that nine blind passengers were thrown off a ryanair flight because the captain said that the limit to the number of disabled people was four per flight. yet every major airline in the european union has a completely different policy. this has made life for disabled passengers unbearable. campaigners in my constituency have also spoken about access to goods and services; the fact that in each member state, including in western europe, the treatment is completely different for the owners of guide dogs, for example. while a lot of good work has been done in this place, we should be aware that these concerns are bubbling under the surface. recent press stories have revealed many thousands of people involved in ngos who want to see us do better. finally, closer to home, we must ensure that we have inclusive design for our new parliament buildings. much good work has been done in this area, but we must emphasise it because it will come back to haunt us if we do not get it right. i hope we will.
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the house the problems faced by the rendering industry in the united kingdom as a result of european union legislation setting standards for incineration plants in the united kingdom, namely the waste incineration directive, which is now due to be implemented by the end of this year. i was totally amazed last week when i learned that only three of the 25 member states are, in fact, going to implement the directive as originally intended. the tallow that is being designated as a waste in these three member states will not be considered a waste in the other member states. i think this is wrong, it totally runs against the lisbon agenda and it is the type of thing we do badly in europe. if we make a directive, and if we include a particular substance within a directive, then that directive should be implemented in all 25 member states in the same way, together and simultaneously. there should not be different interpretations in different member states. it is not enough to blame national governments. the blame starts here because we should not allow it to happen in the first place.
mr president, you reminded us that today is united nations day and that upholding human rights is a top priority. recently, the british home secretary, charles clarke, current president of the justice and home affairs council, said there can be no negotiation about the re-creation of the caliphate; no negotiation about the imposition of sharia law; no negotiation about the suppression of equality between the sexes or about the ending of free speech. he said that these values are fundamental to our civilisation and are simply not up for negotiation. this raises the question of why, in iraq, the british and americans have encouraged the adoption of a constitution which enshrines sharia law and will severely curb the freedom of many women. we welcome the fact that over 70 women have been elected to the parliament in afghanistan. however, the editor of a women’s rights magazine – a male editor, by the way – has been jailed for anti-islamic articles. in both countries women face harassment, violent attacks, death threats and murder because they are women. so i hope that this parliament will hold governments like britain’s to their promises on sex equality, on free speech and on avoiding the imposition of sharia law in iraq and afghanistan.
mr president, i wonder whether it would be appropriate at this time to congratulate mr lech kaczyński, the polish law and justice party and the polish people on the election of president kaczyński in poland on sunday. i also take the opportunity to congratulate our own colleague in this house, mr michał tomasz kamiński, who i believe played a major role in both the successful parliamentary campaign and the successful presidential campaign in poland. i urge you to pass our congratulations on to president kaczyński.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will be no exception in this debate in congratulating our rapporteur on this ambitious report, and i welcome also the commission’s ideas tonight, which, i believe, demonstrate a unity of purpose between our two institutions. i have a vested interest in this debate: scotland, as an english-speaking eu member nation, should be – could be – leading the audiovisual sector within europe in building a bridge to our competitors in the us. sadly, while ample means of support exists on the eu side, this area remains a cruelly untapped potential for scotland, as for europe. fortunately, the solutions are at our hands. i believe there is broad agreement in this chamber tonight on the broad policy thrusts, though, for me, the key policy areas are digitisation and distribution, and how the eu side can facilitate internal eu dissemination of our own talent. sadly, however, i suspect that, ultimately, the arguments will come down to money and the mean-spirited arguments put forward by my own uk government. i hope colleagues will unite around this report and send as loud and as clear a message to the council as we can.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr blokland for his good work on this piece of legislation, but my group is disappointed with the compromise package and we have therefore submitted a number of amendments. for example, waste should only be shipped where truly necessary and unfortunately the proposed regulation is not as strong as it should be on this. a particularly important case here is that of persistent organic pollutants. the regulation implementing the stockholm convention does not deal with a shipment of pops as or contained in waste, so the waste shipment regulation urgently needs to do so. this would help to avoid shipments of pops in waste from countries that could and should deal with the waste themselves. if this provision had been in place two years ago, the export of the so-called ‘ghost fleet’ – dilapidated us navy ships full of pcbs sailing from the us to the uk – could have been stopped on legal grounds. regrettably, the compromise does not cover this issue. neither does it properly address dismantling of ships. large numbers of eu ships will soon need to be scrapped following the recent and welcome decision to accelerate the phase-out of single-hull tankers, but there is a very real danger that they will be dumped on asian beaches to be dealt with under very poor conditions. for these reasons my group will be abstaining and not voting in favour of this package.
mr president, i should also like to thank the rapporteur for his very efficient and effective work on this report. however, as has been said, the verts/ale group has tabled amendments that reflect our position on a number of specific issues that we needed to reiterate. waste, and particularly hazardous waste, should only be transported where there is no alternative; the legislation has to be effective and enforceable to that end. waste should include all types of waste, including animal by-products, and we should be very clear as to our definition of waste ships. as other members have already said, since the eu decided to phase out single hull tankers, this issue has become more important. we know that we do not have the capacity within the eu to treat the waste ships ourselves, but it is urgent that we stop the dismantling of european ships in asia under terrible social and environmental conditions. we already have international agreements governing aspects of waste policy. it is very important that there be consistency between those agreements and new european legislation so that the very highest standards are adopted.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank mrs doyle for her excellent work on this issue. my group fully supports the change in the regulation's legal basis to article 175. the sole objective of this regulation is, clearly, climate protection. it should be remembered that these gases were already included, in 1997, in the basket of gases to be controlled under the kyoto protocol and that this regulation emerged from a specific programme called the european climate change programme. so we should not be fooled by the pro-f-gas lobbyists who argue both for avoiding a change of legal basis and for maintenance of the status quo for their climate-destructive products. climate-friendly alternatives exist for almost all applications, or are in development. none of the phase-outs and bans proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is unrealistic, as some would claim, since they all take into consideration exemptions where safety standards require. i would also point out that f-gases were pushed onto the market as replacements for cfcs, which cause ozone depletion and skin cancers, precisely by the same big chemical companies – like dupont or, in my own country, ineos, as ici is now known – that were, themselves, major producers of ozone-destroying substances. this parliament should stand firm and put the environment and the well-being of europe’s citizens before the narrow corporate interests of those chemical giants.
mr president, on the directive on mobile air-conditioning, i think we have a sensible compromise in parliament. my only reservation concerns the amendment from mr liese and others about low-volume cars. it seems to me that low-volume cars are often high-spec cars with all kinds of features and i wonder what the commission thinks about the amendment to somehow exempt them from the requirement of having sound technology for mobile air-conditioning. on the regulation, i think you have heard that the consensus view in parliament is going to be in favour of mrs doyle’s approach, and i am very loathe to use eu legislation to reduce environment standards in different member states. we have heard from colleagues from different countries who have said they feared this would happen. we need the council, the commission and parliament to bang their heads together to get a resolution on this issue. by the same token, i am also loathe to agree, when we come to vote, on a series of prohibitions on the use of f gases, which have not been tested or assessed for their health and safety, nor for their economic or environmental impact. although many of the letters from lobbyists on both sides of the argument may well be valid, before we ban things, we ought to have proper assessments. therefore, commissioner, i agree with what you said when you spoke about the prohibitions and the need for them to be examined and to come forward in the review. i thank mrs doyle for her work.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on thursday our national leaders convene in london to discuss what sort of europe we want to build. a europe that is open to the world, dynamic and competitive, or one which seeks to shelter its industry and workforce from globalisation? a europe which can offer security, prosperity and opportunity to its citizens, or one which, enslaved to the precepts of the past, slides further into recession? this debate is fundamental to europeans; it must be conducted honestly, rationally and directly. it is therefore disappointing that those who have brought commissioner mccreevy and president barroso here today seem more interested in stalling debate than furthering it, perhaps for the sake of a few more votes in the upcoming swedish election. they accuse the commission of being off-centre. have they not noticed that the centre of opinion has shifted? their political manoeuvring aims not only to derail the services directive; it is aimed at one of the fundamental pillars of the treaty: the free movement of persons and freedom of establishment. mr mccreevy should not be made the scapegoat for their scepticism. as commissioner for the internal market, he has a duty to defend it against its detractors. nor should his comments be seen as an attack on the swedish social model, which liberals have defended for its ability to balance the brutality of the marketplace with a sizeable social safety net. they should be seen as an attack on the swedish builders federation’s hypocrisy, xenophobia and protectionism. laval bid in a fair and open competition for that contract, fulfilling public procurement criteria. the company has a collective agreement with its workers, just as swedish employers have with theirs. what is more, when challenged by the unions over labour rates, laval offered to raise its wages to the level agreed by the swedish collective agreement. however, that was not good enough for the union. it demanded that the rates should be the stockholm average, rather than the swedish national average. finally, in a breathtaking lack of worker solidarity, that union prevented work from going ahead, which led to the company withdrawing from the contract and filing for bankruptcy. now latvian workers are out of a job thanks to the swedish trade unions. is that situation the fault of laval, or is it the fault of a syndicate which puts protecting swedish jobs ahead of the common market principles we have signed up to? it is not by turning inwards and embracing protectionism that we will overcome sluggish economic growth and compete with china and india. the british historian james anthony froude once wrote that the practical effect of a belief is the test of its soundness. what better rebuke to the defenders of protectionism than this sorry affair? perhaps we should not be surprised that liberal economic and social thought is in the ascendant. one reason is that more and more people are so painfully aware of the alternatives. (applause from the right)
mr president, i rarely say that it is a function of mine to defend the commission, but commissioners have the right to freedom of expression and, just occasionally, they may even say eminently sensible things, like president barroso when he accepted that the constitution is unenforceable and that we need to move on. so, commissioner mccreevy had the right to express his opinion. if that opinion was that, in some way, a ‘one size fits all’ approach to the social model is required, then that opinion is wrong. the european social model cannot be defined with singularity; it must take account of diversity and respect the various traditions across europe. what is right for sweden is not the choice of others. social policy must be tailored to the needs of the individual countries. subjecting social policy to the same regulation as business will not work. save us from the oppressive uniformity that some would impose upon us and let the needs of each rule the day.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the committee on public health and the members for today's item, both for the question and for the resolution. it is indeed very important and i am glad to see that parliament and i are on the same page, we have the same priorities and, of course, the same concerns. in view of the time constraints, i would like to cover today the most basic issues raised in the resolution and the question and add that i will send mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment and health, a more detailed briefing on the various issues raised today so that the house can have some more technical details at its disposal. first of all, i should like - and i feel obliged to do so in view of what i have been hearing lately - to clarify the difference between avian influenza, which is the veterinary issue concerning birds and animals, and the possible influenza pandemic, which is a possibility which, as mr trakatellis said, has been identified by the world health organization, and for which we must prepare intensively, because we do not know exactly when it will occur. the presence of avian influenza in europe - i will emphasize this again so that european citizens can hear it - does not affect the chances of a possible pandemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to stress that the european union and the member states have the best and highest level of preparedness in the world. this does not mean that because we compare positively with other countries or other parts of the world, we can feel satisfied or that we have reached the necessary stage of preparation so that our citizens can feel safe. there is still a lot of room for improvement and more preparation, although i recognise that since we last discussed this in the committee responsible, progress has been made by the member states and i must emphasise this. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. today i am pleased to inform you that we have in our possession all 25 national preparation plans from all the member states, which was not the case when we had the debate in committee. i must admit that some of them are still in draft form, but that is all right, they are being discussed today in copenhagen with the european centre for disease prevention and the world health organization. at the same time, we are in the process of revising our own community preparedness plan adopted in march 2004, which will take into account both the national plans and the preparedness exercise we will be conducting in a few weeks' time, where we will test these plans to see how efficient and effective they are, and also examine how they work together and with the relevant community project. as far as the issue of medicines is concerned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's anti-virus programmes are not used in the same way as the community's anti-virus programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall be contacting again very shortly - now that i have a fuller picture of the situation in the member states - and will have another meeting with industry to discuss how they intend to solve the production and supply problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, under the treaty we have no competence to do so, but if the council gives us the directive, we are willing to discuss it, so that - just as the world health organisation has reserves in case of crisis or emergency - there is something corresponding at community level. it is important, however, to advise the public that these medicines are not preventive, they are not vaccines, and they should be taken on medical advice and not by any individual citizen providing himself with medication. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we encourage member states to increase seasonal influenza vaccination in high-risk groups - and we will very likely discuss this with experts as regards workers on farms and in areas at risk. but, i repeat, not for all of europe. the member states must define high-risk groups in order to increase vaccination against seasonal influenza, and i stress again, only in high-risk groups. this will help in the way that mr trakatellis said earlier, but it will also help in working with industry, giving economic incentive - that's how the system works - to increase production, and to meet the needs in case of a pandemic. of course, there is a need to create a pandemic vaccine when the virus is present. that's impossible now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are working with the european medicines agency and the industries taking all the necessary preparatory measures and we are hopeful that all this will be able to reduce the time needed by three months, which is a considerable time saving. we hope that we can do more, but it will also cut by about half the time it takes for the virus to be identified by the world health organization and for a vaccine to be produced. four industries have already expressed interest in starting cooperation with the european medicines agency and i am confident that the others will follow. but what is important, and i will discuss it when i meet with them, is the finding that: first, even seasonal flu vaccines are starting to run short, and i want to know how they intend to solve this problem; and second, that in the pandemic vaccine research, we want to coordinate the industries so that they don't do the same job, so that there's no overlap, but they move in parallel in different directions so that we can cover all the possibilities. i shall therefore be meeting with the industry, and of course i will inform the house of this when i have some results. i shall end here, thank you for your attention and of course i shall listen with great interest to the debate and i am always willing to keep parliament fully informed because, you see, you are the strongest allies i have in this endeavour. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the theme of this debate is, i believe, that we want a sense of urgency, not a sense of panic. that applies to the commission and to member states. i was pleased to hear that we have had a simulation exercise. as i understand it, one of the problems found was the overload of information. i would be interested to hear how that is being managed. what we really need for the public, who are beginning to panic, is clarity. they need to be informed and reassured. they need to understand the difference between winter flu – which is not what this debate is about – and avian flu – which is not what this debate is about, even though 67 people have died from it, all working or living with birds and poultry in asia. it is the combination of those factors which could lead to a pandemic flu, because it mutates from human to human. it has not happened yet, but our resolution must be to ‘prepare, prepare, prepare’! the key is clearly vaccines, and it is the new vaccines we will need, once we know the strain. we need capacity and speed. last week we heard from the who that world capacity for producing vaccines is only 300 million doses a year. my own country – the united kingdom – is going to place an order for 120 million doses. if it does, then where are the vaccines for everyone else? it is not possible without a dramatic expansion of production capacity. as for speed, six to eight months under the egg-based vaccines is not good enough. we need to look at the cell-based vaccines of one month and even the possibility of dna vaccines, which could be as low as one month, but still need a lot of development. we need that central supply to which the commissioner referred, because it must be said that no member state is going to give up its own supplies when the pandemic hits a less-prepared country inside or just outside the european union. i believe we need central supplies under the solidarity fund which he and the ecdc can then direct swiftly to where they are needed, so that we can smother the outbreak and prevent it hitting the rest of us even more seriously. lastly, we need that information from all member states in complete form – the stocks, antivirals, vaccines, masks, the health checks at ports and the quarantine facilities – in order to know that we are genuinely prepared against this threat throughout the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i agree that commissioner kyprianou commendably treads the narrow line between effective prevention and pressing the panic button. our populations need to know that influenza always has been a global disease, and nowadays, of course, there are additional means by which it can be spread. they need to know that the hn51 virus has been present in some states now for several years. we need to know that the pace of spread has not actually accelerated in the way that the wilder speculation about pandemics would lead us to believe. could the commissioner tell us, firstly, what we now know about the incubation period in the bird population, and whether there is any sign that the virus has spread to other species? it is not yet obviously affecting humankind. what will the lead time for an effective monovalent vaccine stockpile be? the industry has communicated to us that it may take four years to produce an effective stockpile of everything we need to deal with the virus if it mutates in the way that is predicted. in his statement of 12 october 2005, the commissioner did not mention the importation and trafficking of wild birds. we have seen in the recent case in the united kingdom that the enormous number of birds now imported into the european union – some legally, some illegally – is a potent source of further infection. we have seen that. what can we do throughout all the member states to have an effective control on these imports and, indeed, their ban?
mr president, it is absolutely essential that the eu is fully prepared for an influenza pandemic and that we learn the lessons from the past, for example, from the foot-and-mouth crisis in europe, so that contingency plans are well-known, communication lines are clear and coordination properly planned. the current threat of the mutation of avian flu demonstrates the role industry must play. patent holders must allow the production of generic alternatives in poorer countries. we must also take urgent practical steps: an immediate ban on imports of wild birds into the eu, and improved bio-security, particularly in the international poultry industry. in our amendments, we are also proposing that, as a priority, poultry farmers be offered common, seasonal influenza vaccination, in order to reduce the chances of recombination between human and avian influenza viruses at one of the most important potential interfaces, as mr trakatellis has said. since international travel is likely to form the key mode of transmission, we are proposing that there should be systematic virological screenings of air filters from flights originating in countries affected by the virus. lastly, a question to the commissioner: will he rule out a mass cull of wild birds, since evidence suggests it is likely to be counter-productive, dispersing infected individuals and making healthy birds more prone to disease due to stress? i would be very grateful for an answer to that question.
mr president, various speakers have made the point this morning that it is time not to panic, but rather to plan. while this resolution is very much about human health, we have to remember that we have to control avian influenza in the world. it is not just a case of europe closing its doors and it will not happen. all the member states must go out and help those countries that have avian influenza at the moment, and i know the commission is doing that. the key is to stamp it out in the world if at all possible. that is why i would urge more help for countries outside the european union to stop this disease coming in. i would also like to say quite clearly, as other speakers have done, that importing wild birds into the european union at the moment is crazy and needs to be stopped, at least for the time being, because there is no point in bringing in disease. contingency planning is also very important because, as mrs lucas said, during the foot-and-mouth outbreak there was a total lack of contingency planning. we have to make sure we are ready and have vaccines available. i also think that at the moment not enough information is going out in the member states to the poultry industry and to those who are actually running our poultry farms, to ensure that, firstly, there is increased biosecurity and, secondly, that they have protection from the disease if it comes into the european union. we have to be ready. we have to look at vaccines that are available, because it must not be forgotten that this disease can mutate into several different viruses. at the moment we are talking very much about the h5 vaccine, but we have to be ready with other forms of vaccine should the disease mutate into another strain. so let us prepare, let us try to stamp it out of the poultry industry and stop it mutating into a human form of the disease, because then the citizens of europe will be protected. i wish you well in getting all member states together and in getting a proper contingency plan in place, commissioner.
mr president, i agree with everybody who has said that we are facing a veterinary crisis which must be tackled urgently. i particularly want to see measures on movements of wild birds, and we must prepare in case there is a mutation of the virus into a human pandemic. i agree with everything that has been said about preparing the european union, stockpiling vaccines and antivirals, and developing a vaccine. i want to ask the commissioner the same question i asked him last time we debated this issue, and that concerns the rest of the world. what discussions is he having with his colleagues in the development dg of the european commission? this pandemic could hit the poorest countries hard as well. we should be talking to the who about not just a possible european reserve fund or stock but also a worldwide reserve stock of vaccines and drugs and possibly some kind of solidarity fund.
mr president, on a point or order, i just wish to say that, to avoid any potential conflict of financial interest, i shall be present but not voting on the hieronymi report.
in writing. the fact that waste has become a tradeable and even valuable commodity, brings with it a need for careful regulation in relation to movement of shipments of waste, both within and across member state boundaries. protection of the environment must be a top priority, and i hope that both council and parliament will agree. i also believe there is a need to limit movements by preventing unjustified shipments, dealing with waste disposal and recycling as near as possible to point of production of the waste, and ensuring that enforcement of waste shipment regulations is improved.
in writing. i support this report which aims to update existing eu rules on cross border shipments of waste and bring them into line with international agreements. i regret that this is being dealt with under a legal base that requires unanimity in council. i hope that this does not prove to be an impediment to the adoption of strong rules. i voted in favour of excluding animal by products from the waste shipment rules as they are adequately covered by other legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which i hope will continue, and extend, the opportunities which are available for all age-groups to take part in trans-national education programmes. many scots have participated in eu programmes over the years, and it is important to build upon successful schemes. in particular i welcome proposals to simplify procedures, and to decentralise administration. i note and welcome the fact that amendments from my group led to the inclusion of lesser-used languages, as well as inter-cultural dialogue.
in writing. the e.u. has been involved in financing education and vocational programmes for a considerable period of time - this is an involvement i very much welcome. however, it is equally clear that there have been too many programmes, the administration has been cumbersome and the budget too low. an integrated action programme for lifelong learning to bring under a single framework after 2006 - socrates, leonardo, erasmus, comenius, 'grundtvif', jean monnet - is very welcome and should help address some of the existing shortcomings.
in writing. i'm delighted to see that the parliament continues to back the erasmus exchange programme, which is i believe one of the most vital ways the eu can demonstrate relevance to the people of europe. i believe that this budget, almost uniquely amonst other budget lines, should be increased, at the expense of others if need be, and voted accordingly. i took advantage of the erasmus programme myself as a student, and strongly believe it to be the most useful, long term, eu programme of all.
in writing. it is very important to offer, to our young people, opportunities such as envisaged in this proposal. developing active citizenship, solidarity, and mutual understanding between peoples must be encouraged and i support proposals to increase the budget for "youth in action". the involvement and active participation of young people in the proposed youth week is desirable, and i supported amendments by my group which sought to underline this.
in writing. i welcomed this report. the current youth programme will come to an end in 2006 and this proposal is for a successor programme - youth in action - which will cover the period 2007-2013. if the recommendations are carried out, the new programme will be simpler, less bureaucratic and easier to access. the programme will now be funded from one heading rather than four and projects will be managed on a decentralised basis. the programme also takes into consideration the requirements of the lisbon process.
in writing. i welcomed this report which establishes a new programme for cultural cooperation across europe from 2007-2013. it aims to foster a common cultural area through the development of cultural cooperation in europe. the funding this programme makes available to support arts and cultural organisations which undertake cooperative projects with organisations in other member states will be warmly welcome by many organisations which often struggle to obtain funding for cross border events. i also welcome the boost this programme will give to the transnational mobility of people working in the cultural sector.
in writing. i support this report and the need for a media 2007 programme to follow up on the media (1996-200) and media plus (2001-2006). the e.u. currently has a trade deficit with the u.s. of over $8 billion per year in the audiovisual sector. we have to intensify our efforts to make the european industry more competitive and better able to rival that of the u.s. industry.
member of the commission. madam president, strasbourg is not an ideal place to deal with such important reports in commission meetings. there is a commission meeting still going on, while we also have other important issues to deal with, such as avian flu. i therefore apologise for being somewhat late. first of all, i welcome the opportunity of presenting the results of our intensive monitoring of bulgaria’s and romania’s preparations for accession and also holding an exchange of views with you on this important issue. let me also thank parliament, especially its committee on foreign affairs, and the rapporteurs, messrs van orden and moscovici, for their contribution to this exercise. when we opened accession negotiations in early 2000 with an additional six candidate countries, we could not know how long the accession negotiations with each of them would finally take. quite clearly, all six countries were part of the fifth enlargement round. the accession of bulgaria and romania will therefore complete this fifth round of enlargement, encompassing 12 countries in total. overall, the reports on the two countries show that both have continued to make progress in fulfilling their accession requirements. bulgaria, having rather lost momentum after the conclusion of the negotiations in summer 2004, has now worked energetically to make up for lost time after the parliamentary elections of june 2005. romania has caught up impressively in the fields of justice reform, competition policy and the state aids regime, as well as the overall level of alignment with eu legislation. both countries continue to fulfil the political criteria, which are, as you know, related to the rule of law, human rights and democracy. while much has been done, there is a need for further progress. in particular, efforts are needed to pursue the reform of public administration, to implement effectively the reform of the justice system and to step up the fight against corruption, particularly high-level corruption. in the area of human rights and the protection of minorities and vulnerable groups, further efforts are needed by bulgaria and romania. as for the economic criteria, both countries should be able to comply with them by accession, provided that they continue and intensify their efforts. both registered robust economic growth last year: 5.6% in bulgaria and 8.3% in romania. both have also pursued structural reforms to their economies. in the case of bulgaria, particular attention has to be paid to the widening current account deficit. labour market reforms also need to be enhanced. in romania, the external balance, wage policy and strengthening of the government’s revenue base call for continued attention. as regards alignment with the eu legal order – the acquis communautaire – we have screened in detail legislative and administrative preparations across 140 separate areas within all 29 acquis chapters. over 50% of all areas monitored are non-problematic. that does not mean that everything is perfect in those areas, but it means that no real problems are expected, provided that the current pace of preparations is maintained. in the second category, there are areas where the state of preparations calls for increased efforts. here, both countries’ authorities are encouraged to target their reform efforts better, so as to come into line with eu requirements in the period leading up to accession. this covers around a third of the acquis areas. we have also identified a limited number of issues of serious concern, covering approximately 10% of the areas covered by the acquis communautaire. these are areas where, unless the countries take immediate and decisive corrective action, they will not be ready by the envisaged date of accession. some of these areas require a technical solution. for instance, bulgaria must reduce the high proportion of uninsured vehicles on the roads; for its part, romania must fulfil eu requirements in the field of taxation. with regard to these areas of serious concern, i would like to make three particular points. the first relates to bulgaria’s and romania’s ability to reap fully the benefits from eu funds upon accession. to manage eu funds, an overall reinforcement of the administrative structures in both countries is required. this includes the setting-up of paying agencies for agricultural funds and the required structures in the field of regional policy. secondly, we are also seriously concerned about areas linked to the functioning of the internal market and to the internal security of the european union. these include, for example, shortcomings identified in the veterinary sector, which could put at risk the sustainability of food safety in the enlarged eu, and the control of external borders in both countries. the third area of particular concern is the fight against corruption, where too limited progress has been made so far. the failure to obtain even a single significant conviction for high-level corruption in recent years, despite commonly available information on its scale, is a cause for serious concern. urgent efforts are needed here by the judiciaries of both countries. with regard to these shortcomings, the authorities in both countries are strongly encouraged to take decisive and immediate action. this would show that both countries can be relied on to play their parts as future members of the european union. the commission will continue to support bulgaria’s and romania’s efforts to prepare for accession to the european union. our financial contribution will focus on measures to tackle the shortcomings identified. the total volume of pre-accession assistance available is substantial. the eu budget in 2006 for bulgaria is around eur 545 million and for romania eur 1 155 million, in other words more than eur 1.1 billion for romania. the commission will also pursue its intensive monitoring of bulgaria’s and romania’s preparations. next spring, we shall review the situation and may, if necessary, recommend postponing accession by one year. we hope that steps undertaken by both countries will lead us to conclude that such a recommendation is not necessary. as formally confirmed by president barroso to president borrell before the summer break, i will also seriously consider your views on the matter before issuing a recommendation on whether or not to postpone the accession of either one or both of the countries. as i have clearly stated before, should there be serious shortcomings, we would not hesitate to make use of all our remedial tools. this includes not only the possibility of postponing accession by one year, but also all other available safeguard clauses. i trust that honourable members of parliament can agree to this approach. now is not the time to speculate on the commission’s recommendation, but for the acceding countries to concentrate all their energy on the outstanding shortcomings identified in our reports. the possibility of being ready in 2007 has not been lost, but it will require plenty of work from both countries. the present report is not the final assessment; that will be provided next spring, in april or may. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the constant interest and support of the european parliament for bulgaria’s and romania’s accession process. i look forward to a continued dialogue with you on the implementation of bulgaria’s and romania’s commitments. i trust that the newly-arrived observers from the two countries will contribute positively, so as to influence the perceptions of bulgaria and romania within the eu. the european parliament has played a decisive role in ensuring that the fifth round of enlargement is well prepared. i am grateful for the cooperation received since i have been in office and look forward to discussing the challenges ahead.
madam president, on a point of order, i think my point has already been made. we are supposed to start at 3 p.m. but you do not seem able to get here for 3 p.m. and nor does the commissioner.
madam president, i speak as the rapporteur for bulgaria. first of all i would like to thank commissioner rehn for his statement and for his continuing strong commitment to successful enlargement of the european union. we should all be conscious that the eyes of bulgaria are on us today and both the tone and content of our message will be significant. overall i see the commission’s report as positive, while focusing attention on the importance and urgency of outstanding commitments still to be fulfilled. i hope i do not detect from the commissioner’s remarks any dampening of enthusiasm for the timely accession of bulgaria. at this final stage it should not, in a way, be surprising if the commission has been even more rigorous in its comments. but we now seem to be in a situation where the wedding has taken place, the marriage register has been signed and presents have been received, but the bridge and groom have been told they cannot walk out of the church together just yet, partly because we are not sure what the situation is like outside. progress has continued in bulgaria. it needs to be faster, but there has been a change in the external political environment. it would be quite wrong if bulgaria were to suffer at all from any of this negative background noise. certainly urgent action by bulgaria is required in some key areas. it is insufficient merely to pass laws. i do not underestimate the political energy and commitment required to do even this, but legislation has to be robustly implemented and the results clear for all to see. the people of bulgaria gave a mixed message in their general election on 25 june. they were not sure of the best way ahead. what is clear is that they must be able to have confidence in their authorities at all levels. the rule of law and therefore judicial reform, combating corruption and organised crime are the prerequisites for everything else, including economic performance. this is just one area of particular concern; there are, of course, others. i see that the commission is calling for improvements in the business environment including labour market flexibility. forgive me if i remark that perhaps the commission needs to put its own house in order and stop introducing new regulations which add to the costs and burdens of business and reduce competitiveness and growth. in its report today the commission has sounded a warning bell, without making a recommendation either way concerning the date of accession. it will, however, do so in april and this will influence the decision of the council and of this parliament, which must of course be consulted. that means that we have a precious six months for bulgaria to demonstrate solid progress and real results, so that the goal of accession on 1 january 2007 can be achieved. on the basis of today’s report, i see no reason why that date should be missed. (applause)
madam president, i warmly congratulate commissioner rehn and his expert team in brussels, as well as mr jonathan scheele and his expert team in bucharest. the commission’s work becomes ever more vital in the final months which bring to a conclusion the long and arduous trek that both nations – romania and bulgaria – have undertaken in their search for the promised land of eu membership. this is the best report yet for romania. it is a matter of pride to me that this comes out now, under the british presidency. i want to congratulate not just mr quinton quayle, the british ambassador in bucharest, but the entire diplomatic corps of all eu member states who have put such time, effort and energy into assisting romania in achieving her goal. we have the enlargement minister from romania in the diplomatic gallery with us today, as well as the minister for child protection and the minister for child adoption, mrs teodora bertzi. perhaps, therefore, i could comment most warmly on the triumph of the reform of child protection that has taken place during the period under discussion, since 1999. that year, at the council of ministers in helsinki, three challenges were placed in front of romania: children, corruption and the civil service. the first challenge was tackled powerfully by successive governments, presidents and prime ministers. the result now is that romania offers a model that has been widely acclaimed and applauded as providing, in some ways, even better services and better protection for her six-and-a-half million children than some eu member states, and certainly other countries in the wider neighbourhood. i believe we shall learn more about that model as it becomes replicated elsewhere in the coming months and years. overall, romania has undergone a complete transformation from a country in 1990 that was dark, slow, tired, exhausted, with almost no life, no light, no fun, no laughter and little trade. today it has been transformed into a nation that is once more alive and vibrant. now we have to look at measures that will assist the public, particularly as regards public health – which is at a very low ebb, livelihoods and poverty reduction. entering the european union is indeed the long-term answer to achieving a rapid rise in levels of prosperity. however, there remains one achilles’ heel clearly identified in the commission’s report today: corruption. corruption is enemy number one of the people; it is enemy number one when you seek to reduce poverty; enemy number one when you are trying to improve health, livelihoods and futures of a population. much must be done to fight this enemy, but i believe and know that it can be tackled and that in romania it can be conquered. this has already happened in some sectors. now the same effort and energy must continue in the other sectors, particularly in justice, which is so critical for the romanian people. i seek no time delay. i hope and believe that at some time in 2007 we will be able to say: welcome, romania, you are now one of us.
madam president, on a point of order, i apologise for disturbing the natural process of this debate, but many of us here present – colleagues, press and public – will have spotted that the uk presidency is, unavoidably, not able to take its seat in the chamber because, obviously, there are many other pressing matters. however, would you undertake, on behalf of the president of parliament, to convey the message coming loud and clear from this debate that 1 january 2007 is not negotiable?
mr president, the choices facing romania and bulgaria are quite simple: will they compete with the economies of western europe on the basis of skills, or with turkey on price? a practical example would be the steel industry. in ireland, the state-owned irish steel was sold to europe’s favourite steel producer mr mittal for one pound. five years later, just weeks after he collapsed irish steel with debts of gbp 50 million and no word of complaint from the then irish finance minister charlie mccreevy, we had mr blair writing to the romanian prime minister recommending mittal as a suitable custodian of romania’s steel industry. no doubt mr mittal’s donation to mr blair of gbp 125 000 was coincidental. the donations to labour have continued, and again, coincidentally under the british presidency, anti-dumping tariffs on steel produced by mittal outside the eu have continued to be reduced by commissioner mandelson. but what will happen once romania and bulgaria are on the inside? they hope, of course, for an increase in their standard of living, but with that comes an increase in the costs of production. just as mittal moved production from ireland to romania, where will romania’s production go in due course? would it be kazakhstan or algeria, serbia, bosnia? all of these countries’ steel industries have been bought with aid from loans from the ebrd and the world bank in other words, european taxpayers are subsidising the export of their own heavy industries. the sale of sidex was seen to have helped romania’s bid for eu membership. what will be the price for the next wave of candidate countries? are the romanian and bulgarian governments happy to pay for eu membership with the jobs of their steel industries? what other industries have similar deals hidden away? if mr mittal is successful in his rumoured takeover of corus/british steel, no doubt they will follow mg rover into blair-sponsored oblivion. (applause)
the commission's vice-president madam president, the regulation cited by the honourable member establishes common rules for compensating and assisting passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or long delay of a flight. since its entry into force on 17 february 2005, the commission has been closely monitoring the application of this regulation by the member states and its application by airlines. in order to ensure uniform application of the regulation throughout europe, the european commission has launched infringement procedures against several member states, which have not yet taken the necessary steps to establish the sanctions to be imposed on airlines in the event of non-compliance with the legislation in force. moreover, on the basis of the complaints received regularly, the commission has identified certain practical difficulties in the effective implementation of that regulation and in the control of its application by the member states. this is particularly the case with regard to the obligation on national bodies to take the necessary measures to guarantee passenger rights and to examine complaints. in this context, the commission is currently working with the national authorities to arrive at a harmonised interpretation of the role of these bodies in monitoring and handling complaints.
commissioner, surely the problem with this legislation lies in the fact that it depends to a large extent on the information given to passengers, and the problem arises when there is nobody to give passengers any information. in june, a constituent of mine, mrs underwood, was stranded overnight in alicante with her family, which included a ten-month-old baby; there was nobody there from the airline to give any information. in fact, they rang the airport of destination themselves, which was also unable to give her any information. the family had already checked in; they could not get their luggage back; there was no provision for babies nor any baby food. they eventually left at 4 a.m., although they were supposed to have left at 7 p.m. on the previous day. she wrote to the airline but was given no compensation; the national body also said that the airline had acted properly. we have a piece of legislation here. i am pleased you are going to review the role of these national bodies because, at the moment, i am not convinced that this legislation is practical and workable for citizens.
the commission's vice-president madam, i've listened to the example you just gave. national agencies are there to intervene in the event of airline shortages. i have said it before and i say it again: we did not adopt this regulation so that it would not be applied! we will therefore examine with the national authorities the practical conditions under which these complaints are dealt with. the national authorities must - and the example you have given shows the need - comply with the provisions laid down in the regulation precisely to avoid the need for legal action to deal with this. the spirit of the regulation was to avoid having to resort to justice all the time. thank you, madam, for pointing out this example, among others. it strengthens my resolve to enforce the regulation.
i welcome the commissioner's reply. some airlines seem to be doing everything they can to avoid their obligations. i, too, have had letters from constituents, one where the airline in a case of lost luggage said of course they would refund the items in the luggage, provided the customer could provide the original receipts. as if we all keep receipts for everything we buy! another airline refused compensation for a flight cancelled because of the weather, even though a rival airline was able to fly ten minutes later on the same day, from the same airport and to the same destination. there are numerous examples. please be vigorous in chasing them up.
the last comment was very interesting and one that i should like to follow up. the environment agency, which is the uk regulator, believes that there is a breach of the directive. could i just say to the commissioner that it is not just a matter of storm overflows: it does not need unusually heavy rainfall to have these outflows; they happen on average once a week. only one of the 57 outflows is screened and so i have to leave to your imagination the sewage solids that go into the river. i am particularly worried about the run-up to the 2012 olympics. for water sports and for the image of london, this is a terrible situation, and the athletes’ village will overlook one of these overflows. i am amazed that the uk government, as well as the mayor of london, is content to put up with that situation.
member of the commission. the european union will continue to collaborate very closely with the international partners in the quartet, as well as with its partners in the region, working with both sides to restore the political process and return to the roadmap. we believe that dialogue with israel within the framework of the political arrangements set out, on the one hand, in the association agreement and, on the other hand, in the european neighbourhood policy is the most effective way to impress upon the national authorities the union’s concerns regarding respect for human rights and international law. the threat of sanctions, and the suspension of any part of the association agreement, is likely, we think, to diminish rather than bolster the union’s ability to bring its influence to bear on israel. in this critical period following israel’s disengagement from gaza and parts of the west bank that we and the whole international community wholeheartedly welcome, the union has agreed to help provide very strong support for the reconstruction of the palestinian infrastructure and institutions and to promote economic reform and governance. thus, we think that improving the life and lives of the palestinians is the best way to stabilise the situation in gaza and to further the prospects for peace. the commission remains committed to that end.
commissioner, thank you for your response. of course, i endorse what you say, but we must recognise that, despite early optimism after israel’s unilateral withdrawal from gaza, the picture today is much bleaker than hoped. only last week, israel broke off diplomatic ties with the palestinian authority after three young settlers were killed; these are the real politics of that region and are the things that we must concentrate on. what i ask, in specific terms, is how does the commission plan to bring israel and the palestinian authority back to the negotiating table, and ensure that those early feelings of optimism are not entirely wasted?
member of the commission. i can tell you that we are working very closely in the quartet, which has a special envoy, mr james wolfensohn, with whom i am in very close contact. what we want to do is to bring the two parties together on the different points. these include the ‘six plus three points’ identified by mr wolfensohn. the parties have not yet found a consensus on all of these. there is the rafah crossing and the link between gaza and the left bank; there are the greenhouses and many other issues. i was in washington last week, along with president barroso. i saw president bush and condoleezza rice. we spoke about that. i saw mr wolfensohn before that meeting. at this stage we want to follow these events very closely. we have also said in a communication that we are even ready to double the means that we have been giving to the palestinians this year, if both parties make progress and other donors participate.
commissioner, your comments about the activities of the quartet and the offer to increase aid to palestine are all very welcome. however, i wonder if you would agree that the long-term security of israel and the middle east will be guaranteed by making israel more integrated with its neighbours to ensure that trade and movement between the neighbours develop. will you use the barcelona process to try to encourage israel and its neighbours to see communication between them as a solution and not as a threat to their security?
member of the commission. let me say first of all that we will be looking into establishing experimental fisheries under article 5 of the protocol. that would provide scope for an almost immediate assessment of the state of health of sponge stocks within the areas covered by the agreement with morocco. once we have a scientific evaluation of the state of health of the stocks, then we will negotiate with morocco the inclusion of this type of fishery in the agreement. in fact, there is an understanding with morocco to this effect. i will see to it that the experimental fisheries and scientific evaluation are carried out as early as possible.
madam president, if an honourable colleague has been unfortunately delayed and is not in the chamber for his or her question, but then arrives three questions later – there are, after all, very few colleagues present – would you, in your personal capacity, please take question number 72?
member of the commission. the commission and the member states are following closely all the particularities of the management of salmon stocks, an important element of which is the regulation of salmon fisheries at sea, ensuring a sufficient number of returning salmon reach the spawning grounds upstream. no less important are the regulation of river and estuarial fisheries and the maintenance of rivers in good ecological condition to ensure appropriate spawning success and the survival and growth of young salmon. but other aspects fall outside the direct competence of the common fisheries policy. an important drawback of the management of salmon fisheries at sea is that these do not target single stocks of salmon. in fact, salmon caught in these fisheries can belong to a mixture of stocks in unpredictable proportions. another important aspect of these fisheries is that they are deeply rooted in the tradition of coastal communities of fishermen and their consequent social importance. the challenge is then to establish a balance between the conditions by which fishing may be allowed to continue and to ensure that such fishing does not undermine the sustainability of stocks in need of recovery. member states with sea salmon fisheries have developed management strategies to address that difficult problem. measures taken range from total prohibition to the regulation of fishing gear, in order to target better the stocks of salmon in good condition and preserve those in need of recovery. the commission has undertaken to review the situation and examine the success of these management strategies and subsequently report to the council and to parliament. this work is in progress and will be completed during the coming weeks. following the result of the above-mentioned report and the discussion both with the european institutions and with other stakeholders, the commission will consider proposing management measures within the framework of the common fisheries policy. with regard to the reference made by the honourable member to the use of driftnets, the commission should clarify that the salmon driftnet fishery within the irish 12-mile limit is not covered by the 1998 ban on the use of driftnets for highly migratory species such as tuna. the commission would also add that the question at stake refers to stock management issues but does not directly relate to the type of gear concerned. it should therefore not be confused with the 1998 prohibition on the use of driftnets because of cetacean by-catch and which, in the atlantic area of interest, applies only to the catching of tuna and some tuna-like species. the decision taken by the council last year, with the full support of the european parliament, for a progressive phasing-out and a total ban on using driftnets in the baltic sea as from 1 january 2008, which shall apply without any distinction on target fish species, including salmon, is aimed at protecting the extremely endangered population of harbour porpoise that remains in the baltic sea.
member of the commission. with regard to your point on the right balance, the commission has undertaken to carry out a review of the situation and to examine the success of the management strategies in order to see whether the balance is right between sustainability and the continuation of traditional fisheries for salmon. the study will be completed by the end of october, which is next week. we will be looking at the results of this study and then coming to parliament and the council with our own proposals in order to see to it that there is proper management of these fisheries.
i come from scotland. as you may know, scottish wild salmon is the best in the world. we are worried about the future of salmon stocks. you give a very factual and clear answer in terms of the current situation, but i should like to ask you personally, as commissioner: do you feel that driftnets, with their indiscriminate catch, can continue to be used in european waters? has the time not come to end the use of driftnets in fishing?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement. i echo the thoughts of the previous speaker in thanking him for a balanced and considered report. that is perhaps in stark contrast – as our group wanted to say – to the way in which this house has had to deal with this resolution. i believe that we all wanted to have an exchange of views with you tonight, but to be bounced into a resolution was perhaps not the way to answer a considered report. for five people in a room until midnight last night to be trying to think up a resolution is not the way to deal with this sensitive and difficult issue. if parliament looks at this issue again, it should do so with a proper parliamentary report, developed in the fullness of time through a committee and with mature debate, not in the way that this has been produced. it seems to me that some colleagues would wish to revisit the directive by way of a resolution concocted over 24 hours. clearly we have to do that with much more time and better thought. as for the idea of a legal action, it was quite clear last night that parliament’s legal service considers that we have neither the status nor the right to take such action. our group has taken the view that we should seek at present to maintain the status quo, welcome the report and wait for the proper time to give this very delicate issue the proper space it deserves for full debate and consideration.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his very positive and helpful speech. i believe i can speak for the committee on citizens’ freedoms and rights, justice and home affairs in saying that we support him in what he is doing. we want to press on a bit harder, but we all want to fight organised crime as effectively and as quickly as we possibly can. we therefore support you, commissioner, in what you propose and we will continue to push you hard to keep up the progress, if we can. i speak for the committee as rapporteur, not for myself. we recommend full support for the commission proposal but, as the commissioner has said, there are little extras that we have suggested adding. we want to strengthen europol but we want to make it an eu agency. i hope that colleagues can support amendment 45 by the socialist group which refers to there being no more strengthening until it is a proper eu agency. then we can give it flat-out support. we want to confiscate the profits of organised crime. there is one point that the commissioner has not mentioned: because organised crime crosses frontiers but law enforcement is up to the individual member states and cannot cross frontiers, the committee wants to point out – and we voted for this – that there is a pressing need to create a european union police force. we are not saying ‘create it’, but that there is a pressing need. we have to think about that, however politically controversial it may be. i thank the commissioner for talking about a centralised agency within each member state. we need that to coordinate the often-fragmented efforts within individual member states. he did not mention the idea of an asset recovery bureau, modelled on the irish system in dublin whereby a government agency can actually confiscate the assets of suspected criminals and subsequently give them back if they are proved to be not guilty. because criminals operate to make money, if one takes away their assets, they get very upset. that is the way to hit them hardest. we, as a committee, would like to see an asset recovery bureau set up in every one of the 25 member states to really hit the criminals where it hurts the most. the committee is in full support of the commission proposal, but we want to go further and faster. i believe that parliament and the commission are allies on this. the real problem – and i am sorry to see that the council benches, as usual, are empty – is the council putting into effect and ratifying the things it says it will. for example, none of the protocols strengthening europol in the past have been ratified by all member states. europol is still much weaker than it should be. we support the commission and we would very much like the council to move a bit faster. (applause)
mr president, international organised crime is at its most dangerous and its most pernicious when it is linked to terrorist groups. in northern ireland and the republic of ireland, we have had at work for many years one of the most sophisticated terrorist and criminal organisations of modern times, the ira. for decades it funded its vicious terror campaign out of the proceeds of its vast array of criminal activities. now that – at least for the present – the gun has served its purpose, the product of its criminal empire is being used to fund its pseudo-political party, sinn féin. it is one of the richest political parties in europe, because it lives off the proceeds of crime. most notorious of late was the robbery of eur 40 million from the northern bank in belfast. that is only part of the ira's programme of criminality, which ranges through fuel smuggling, drug dealing, money laundering and all things illegal. happily, the assets recovery agency has recently struck a powerful blow against the ira's international criminal network by smashing a money-laundering operation in manchester, through which its chief of staff, thomas murphy, was laundering millions of pounds via property deals. if they were the true democrats that they claim to be, there are two members of this house who could shed much more light on these matters, because their party is inextricably linked with this large-scale criminality. i refer to sinn féin members bairbre de brún and mary lou mcdonald who, as ever when we discuss these matters, are absent and notable for their complicit silence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to talk specifically about economic migration, which covers a whole range of people from company directors to cleaners. we forget that in this debate. it is true that the economic situation in some countries of origin may well push people to move, which raises questions about our external policies, our trade policies. after all, the gatt agreements give service providers the right to move. but people also come here for the benefit of their cvs, because they can earn good money and because we want skilled workers. with regard to non-documented migrants, we have been told that they come because of the draw of illegal work. in that case, many of our member states are absolutely complicit in that. we know of major construction projects that have been built with the assistance of undocumented migrant labour, for example, and the commissioner is absolutely right, these people are attractive because they are cheap and they have no rights. to establish legal, simple, flexible channels for migrant labour and employers is extremely important. the green card and the job seeker’s visa, which we talked about last time we discussed this, are very good ways forward, as would be assistance for the implementation of existing labour standards by our governments.
(the speaker spoke irish) mr president, i should like to welcome the proposal from the commission. financial aid in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks is important for maximising the benefits of cross-border cooperation in particular, and infrastructural integration. the european community can contribute to this process by encouraging cooperation, promoting models of best practice and providing financial assistance. that will have practical benefits for my constituency in terms of networks across the island of ireland and beyond, as i am sure will be the case for many other constituencies. i personally have concerns, however, when such instruments are used for the further privatisation of public services. that is something that i could not support.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, i want to congratulate mr pittella, the rapporteur, on having produced an excellent budget statement, and the commissioner. mr pittella has very kindly accepted about 80% of the committee on development’s amendments to the budget. we all know that this budget is very stretched. mr pittella has himself explained how external actions have been very difficult: afghanistan, iraq, the tsunami, gaza, and the earthquake. the earthquake represents a challenge. three million people are stranded on mountainsides freezing to death. they have no tents, food or water. logistically it is impossible to supply them with food, water and heat, etc. we do not know how much it is going to cost this year. the response to the tsunami was magnificent – i was caught up in the middle of it. usd 5.3 billion was raised globally, of which the european union committed eur 160 million and then further sums under the flexibility instrument. however, i am conscious that the uk presidency is very concerned about the earthquake and pakistan. to feed and look after three million people over the winter will be difficult. do we adopt a family and ask the pakistani people in karachi, lahore or rawalpindi to look after these people over the six-month period and help them with coupons, ration cards and provide them with food so that we do not allow them to starve and die on mountain tops? i do not know. i am also very grateful that much of what the committee on development has asked for has been given. i only regret that the handwashing programme – which we talked about in my committee – was not accepted by the budget rapporteur. i would like that to be noted.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, i think we are all agreed that trade can do more for development than all the aid and debt relief we give. in other words, hong kong in december can be more important for development than the gleneagles summit in the summer was. however, there is more to trade than simple liberalisation: we have to give developing countries assistance in getting their goods to the market and we have to give them assistance in terms of meeting our technical and health standards. that is why the committee on international trade is proposing a new budget line called 'aid for trade'. it is not that we do not already have trade assistance in our budget, but at the moment it is spread over two hundred different budget lines. the trade committee would like this to be unified into one single budget line. we would like a clear budget line so that aid for trade is more easily mobilised, more visible and more accessible to the developing countries.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much indeed for coming today. i would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur of the committee on budgets for coming to a couple of meetings of the committee on budgetary control and listening to the concerns and queries of the committee. it is a very healthy process for us all to be involved in. the process by which the budgetary control committee operates is as follows: we go through our discharge reports and look at conclusions and points that we have raised with which the house has concurred and which the commission has not completely implemented, and then draw up amendments to try to ensure implementation in the future. we also look at the olaf budget in great detail because it is one of the areas where we have many concerns and will have many concerns in the future. this year, olaf asked for a great deal more staff, in fact 25 new staff and an increase in its budget of 10 %, which our committee, the committee that should be the most proactive and supportive of olaf (as i believe it probably is), was concerned that this level of new staff was not actually required. one of the amendments in the budget this year has details on that. we are seeking a satisfactory explanation, which i am not sure we have properly received. we also called on the european court of justice and the european court of auditors to amend their respective administrative decisions by 1 november of this year in such a way as to rule out the private use of official cars, and there are amendments in the budget for that. finally, and completely off track and on a personal note, there is an amendment signed by all members across this house to allow funding of europe-wide events to encourage the social inclusion of young people and mentally disabled people through sporting activities, which i hope the rapporteur will pick up.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, i speak as a replacement for mr mulder, who drafted the opinion of the committee on fisheries. our committee has more confidence in the figures advanced by the commission in the pdb than in the council's estimates. accordingly, we propose restoration of the commission's figures. these are already cautious ones and there are a number of priorities for us. they include supporting the newer member states in making adjustments to their fisheries sector, investment in environmentally friendly fishing methods, adequate funding for the development of regional advisory councils, economic aid to assist those whose livelihood is affected by reductions in fishing effort, more consistent allocation of appropriations for research, greater account of the needs of remote regions and better implementation of control instruments so as to ensure respect for both substantive and financial rules. we look to all the appropriate institutions for their endorsement of this approach.
mr president, i find it very difficult to take seriously a debate about voluminous documents that only a real euro-nerd would be able to read, let alone understand. furthermore, what is the point of a debate about a 2006 budget which we all know will bear no relationship to the way the money will actually have been spent? the european court of auditors has, for good reason, refused to sign off the eu’s accounts for the last 10 years and said, in its last report, that 95% of the eu’s budget was open to fraud. yet every year this house just shrugs its shoulders, sighs and looks the other way. that is a shameful indictment of this institution and demonstrates how pitifully useless it really is. before we start debating ways to spend next year’s money, i believe we should sort out the mess that has been left behind in previous years. until the disgusting state of the eu’s finances has been sorted out, this house has no business debating further expenditure. i call upon you all, in good conscience, to reject the 2006 budget.
mr president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mr pittella, on his excellent report. it is a radical report, but one to be commended for the timely emphasis it places on achieving the lisbon goals and the need to improve the structural funds and external actions. i just want to make four points. firstly, on information and communication: it is quite clear we need greater focus and direction. therefore, i welcome commissioner wallström’s initiative to regenerate communication tools through the use of plan d, but stress that this will only be a success if adequate resources are made available. therefore, i call on the council to do so. secondly, the biggest challenge for this year’s budget and for future financing is in heading 4: external actions. given the number of new regions where the eu has had to intervene recently, combined with the frequency and the destructive enormity of the natural disasters affecting largely poor countries and not least the recent earthquake in pakistan and india, for which it is essential we increase resources next year, i believe there is a dire need for the council and the commission to have a thorough rethink on how these new areas are to be funded and, at the same time, how we are going to meet our obligations in achieving the millennium development goals. the situation as regards this heading is further exacerbated by an unwillingness to be more flexible vis-à-vis the sugar regime, where it is very important for us to help poor farmers, but, at the same time, it will add more pressure in heading 4. whilst on agriculture, this brings me to my third point. i am extremely pleased that my amendment on reducing tobacco subsidies was adopted in the committee on budgets. this is a major step forward in finally putting an end to a hypocrisy within the european union whereby, on the one hand, we have been funding health programmes warning of the ill effects of tobacco use and, on the other hand, subsidising tobacco production. this totally undermines the credibility of the eu and, adding insult to injury, a vast amount of the tobacco is burnt and destroyed because it is not good enough to be used. therefore, i am calling on all colleagues to support this particular amendment. finally, on parliament’s budget, i must admit that i am somewhat perplexed by our strategy – or the lack of it – as it really is a shame that ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i just want to propose that we change the word ‘mutation’ to ‘recombination’ in the amendment. the pse group has indicated that it would be in favour of this. this is essentially just a technical change, but, scientifically speaking, you cannot prevent mutation of h5n1, much as we would like to and powerful though we might think we are. we might, however, have a chance of preventing recombination, so i would like to have the word ‘mutation’ changed please.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of the report despite reservations. the legal base is an important issue. the proposal for a split legal base of article 175 and article 95 for articles 7, 8 and 9 seemed the best solution, rather than article 175 on its own, to maintain vital elements of a single market approach rather than renationalising the industry. arguments for allowing higher standards in those member states that want them are seductive. but just how far can we follow such a route without endangering wider interests? i welcome the moves to limit the further enlargement of the list of prohibited gases. technically it is possible, but it may be expensive, both for the consumers and for the environment, with sharp rises in energy consumption of up to 40%. at this stage we should leave these further bans for assessment by the commission as to the overall impact they would have on the economy and environment.
in writing. labour meps strongly support the doyle report which seeks to contain and ensure safe use and proper recovery of f-gases which contribute to global warming. cuts in f-gases will help member states meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol. however, we cannot support those amendments to the legislation which seek to impose bans on certain f-gases without a proper impact assessment. the legislation provides for a review clause in article 10 and this is the proper mechanism to deal with any possible prohibitions.
in writing. i welcome this commission proposal aimed at reducing emissions from motor vehicle air conditioning systems which are covered by the kyoto protocol. i am in favour of an accelerated timetable for the imprementation of this proposal overall but with a longer timetable for small-scale car produceres.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are broadly supportive of the tens projects but have abstained on the final vote because of our concerns that the increased amounts being suggested are excessive and would breach member states' financial contributions of 1% gni.
in writing. the recommendations contained in this report should give a welcome boost to trans european networks in the field of energy and transport. the proposal is for a 10% increase in the budget and allowing up to 50% of cross border projects to be financed through community aid. i welcome this.
in writing. in the vote today on the joint resolutions on patents for biotechnological inventions, i voted for those amendments making clear the need for a prohibition on the patenting of all human body parts, tissues and cells in their natural life state and their dna sequences. there are no circumstances in which the human body and parts thereof should become a commercial commodity. moreover, believing strongly in the protection of human life, including at its earliest stages, i am opposed to both destructive processes and scientific engineering which tinkers with the marvellous creation which is the human body.
in writing. this subject area is very complex technologically and morally, and while i have misgivings about some aspects of the resolution i believe that it does go some way to striking a balance between the need for research which could be hugely beneficial, and on the other hand the potential damage that this research could do to human life. i therefore broadly support the compromise that parliament has reached today, but this technology will need to be kept under constant review.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr blair, when you outlined your vision for the uk presidency back in june, you challenged europe’s leadership to get its policies right for today’s world: to reconnect europe to its citizens, its citizens to the demands of a global marketplace, and its politicians to europe’s priorities. yet, six months on, as your reception here has demonstrated, many cannot, or will not, think beyond the terms of liberal europe versus social europe. let me be clear. over 90 % of the eurozone’s gdp is from countries whose social costs are too high. this poses a danger to our economic future. yesterday’s solutions are no longer an option. it is time to realise that globalisation is not for tomorrow but today. it harbingers huge opportunities for wealth creation and intercultural exchange, but also cross-border challenges like migration, climate change and internationally organised crime. it challenges our social welfare state, and the german model, which seemed to work 20 years ago, no longer does. as my german friends tell me, it is kaputt. if the european union is to prosper in a global community, we must combine reform of expensive social models with a new determination to build a single market for goods, services, capital and labour. with more invested in research, innovation and education, the single market delivers the wealth which pays for our social policy. it is not an economic and social shangri-la, sheltered from all the pressures of the world, but it caters for a common response to a common challenge. let us go on to build the common policies in energy and home affairs of which you speak. the united kingdom opposed these in the european convention, and we welcome your change of heart. many on the left, particularly in this chamber, perceive reform of welfare systems and market-opening as threats. but, as my colleague bernard lehideux pointed out last week, a free market economy and social solidarity can go hand in hand. indeed, if economic liberalism is complemented by social liberalism, we can offer our citizens the security, prosperity and opportunity they expect. it is neither the american way nor the gallic way. it is, perhaps, the third way, which social democrats seek but have not found. because, as richard crossman warned you years ago, the problem with too many on the left is not that they lack ideological maps for the new territory they are crossing, it is that their leaders believe that experienced travellers no longer need such maps. president-in-office, i do not envy your task at hampton court. but do not give up. the european union is not only capable of reform: it yearns for reform. what it needs from the presidency is leadership. leadership must consist of more than the occasional good speech, as the british conservatives may soon come ruefully to reflect. the time has come to lead from the front. the success or otherwise of the uk presidency will only be fully assessed in december. you must convince the doubters that under your leadership europe can live up to the high expectations you set for us. that means high ideals. what are your ideals for europe, mr blair? abandoning ideology and trusting focus groups to get a government re-elected is not leadership. it is followership. ideology gives us the moral fibre to take difficult decisions at home and stand up to thugs on issues of human rights abroad, giving us a foreign policy we can be proud of, not ashamed of; making us proud to be europeans. your difficulty, i suspect, is that some member states doubt britain’s solidarity. they see the uk like that explorer in the jungle who, when the band of explorers froze at the sight of a tiger ready to pounce on them, slowly took off his jungle boots and slipped on a pair of running shoes. to the colleague who whispered, ‘you must be mad, you’ll never outrun a tiger!’ he replied, ‘my friends, it’s not the tiger i have to outrun.’ if britain were in the euro and fully in schengen to show solidarity, its authority and influence would be greater. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr blair, in your speech here in june i could scarcely believe what i was hearing. you said that the people were blowing the trumpets around the city walls, that unemployment was 20 million and that productivity rates were falling behind the us, and you pledged to peel back bureaucracy, which was music to eurosceptic ears. perhaps that is why you have chosen hampton court for the summit tomorrow: henry viii was, after all, the first english eurosceptic. so what has happened since? well, the commission announced it was going to stop 68 new laws, and then yesterday we were told that a further 200 pieces of legislation would be repealed over the course of the next three years. so it all looks rather encouraging. however, the truth is that it is all window dressing; it is a game of smoke and mirrors and the clue was commissioner verheugen’s comment that better regulation is not deregulation. the european commission will not give up its power; there will be no real economic reforms. since 1497 the british parliament has made 25 000 laws. since you became the european council president, no fewer than 2 500 legislative instruments have been passed. unless you can find your way out of that maze at hampton court tomorrow, this will be your legacy and proof that europe is not working! (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, as the first british conservative to speak today, i should like to welcome the prime minister to strasbourg. it is good to see you, sir. like your predecessors, john major and margaret thatcher, you came to power determined to set aside the legacy of british ambivalence towards the eu. yet, like them, you soon came up against the hard knocks of reality. like them, you were forced to realise that the aspirations and ambitions of the eu are entirely contrary to british interests. you were welcomed in 1997 by european leaders, who believed that you were the man, finally, to bring britain into the heart of europe. yet you never dared to face down the hostility of the british people towards the euro and now you never will. your offer of a referendum on the eu constitution torpedoed the whole project; it led directly to the french referendum and to the ‘no’ votes in france and holland. last june you made a very successful speech in this chamber, yet your presidency has run into the sand. you have little or nothing to show for it. you are here to survey the shattered wreckage of your broken european dreams. your own labour meps have opposed your modernisation agenda at every turn, notably on the working time directive. it may be new labour in westminster, but it is old labour in brussels. so i should like to offer you a positive and constructive suggestion: depending on the outcome of the current conservative leadership contest, it seems very likely that conservative meps will leave the group of the european people’s party, perhaps as early as christmas. it is too leftist and federalist for most conservatives. for your part, you must be sick to death of the old-fashioned socialists of the pse group, so why not pull your troops out from the pse group and apply to join the ppe group? i am sure that the ppe leader, mr poettering, will look very favourably on your application. after all, mr poettering is about as new labour as they come! (laughter)
president-in-office of the council. thank you very much, mr helmer, for those constructive thoughts. if indeed you are the future of the uk conservative party, we look forward to a long term in office! (laughter and applause)let me try and respond to the points that have been made, and, as henry viii said to his wives, ‘i will not keep you long’! (laughter)if i can begin, first of all, by welcoming very much what president barroso said; obviously i agree strongly with it. the presidency and the european commission have been working carefully on the commission paper that is the subject of our meeting tomorrow. i shall try to deal with some specific points and then come to one general point. in relation to what mr poettering was saying, i agree entirely with the point on the wto; it is very important, and everyone understands we cannot get immediate change fundamentally to the common agricultural policy, but it is important we get a forward perspective of change. in respect of the fund, i think we are in agreement: if this fund is about helping people cope with the consequences of globalisation, that is a good thing. if it is simply about propping up companies that have failed, that is obviously not something we want to do. but it is very much the former and not the latter. secondly, in relation to what mr schulz was saying: first of all, can i thank you very much for those words about 7 july and the terrorist attacks in the uk. it means a lot to my country to have you say that; thank you. in relation to the social model, i hope i can answer some of those points in a moment, but i would say again, right at the outset, that we should never destroy social solidarity. what we should always do is make it relevant for today’s world. that is the purpose of what we are doing. in respect of the point that mr watson was making: i agree that i do not think it is choice between a liberalised europe and a social europe in that stark sense. i hope that the commission paper and the new areas of work that we are proposing can get people out of feeling that they have to choose so starkly between the two. ms frassoni, molte grazie – that is about the limit i am afraid! you asked at an earlier meeting and again today about the areas in which we would cooperate in research and development. i said to you then that biotechnology is one very clear area. this is a major area for the whole development of healthcare and for business in the future. europe should be a leader in biotechnology, and if we are not careful we are going to be overtaken even by countries like india. environmental technology is another area. i want to give one example that i think people would have been deeply sceptical about 20 or 30 years ago. it took some imagination from people at that time to put the concept of airbus together. over these past few years, we have gone from a position where boeing was literally completely dominant in the market to a situation where airbus today is a european venture of which we can be proud and which is competing with the very best anywhere in the world. sometimes it helps if we pool together in europe our research, our development and our innovation across europe in order to get the scale of challenge that we need implemented. if we are able to do that, and if we are able to meet the scale of the challenge in the way i have suggested, i think, in other areas, too, we can develop world-beating companies across europe. mr wurtz, i do not know who your interlocutors were in the uk, but i will give you some new ones when you come next time, if you do not mind! let me just say to you, in respect of unemployment, that we have two million more jobs in the uk. the new deal for the unemployed is the biggest programme of any country in europe to tackle unemployment. we were the government that introduced for the first time, in the teeth of conservative opposition, a statutory minimum wage. we have the working families’ tax credit and other help for the low paid. we have lifted 700 000 children out of poverty and two million pensioners out of acute hardship, and our public services have meant that we have the best school results, and falling hospital waiting lists, for the first time in 20 years. that is a very good social record. however, i have to say to you that it has always been my experience in politics that at a certain point there are parts of the left that join forces with the right to decry modern progressive governments. mr farage, you talked about commissioner verheugen’s agenda for getting rid of redundant legislation and, as far as i can make out, you actually applauded what he was doing but thought that he had used the wrong terminology. i do not really care what terminology he uses, but it is important, when the european commission is getting rid of unnecessary regulation, that there is a place, as i said to you in our meeting earlier, both for better regulation and deregulation. sometimes, europe needs to regulate, and then it is the correct thing for europe to do. but europe should only regulate where it is necessary and europe should not interfere in areas where it is unnecessary. i think that is the right position for us. mr crowley, i heard what you said on the common agricultural policy. again, i understand. of course we are not saying we can change the whole system overnight; what we are saying is that we should in the future have a different perspective for reform. i want to finish on this point: there is a responsibility on the uk presidency and the council; there is a responsibility, of course, on the european commission. there is a responsibility also on this body, on parliament, and our common responsibility is this: at the present time, the real danger that we face in europe is that our citizens and our people are increasingly perceiving globalisation as a threat. however, globalisation, if we are intelligent about how we handle its consequences, is not a threat: it is an opportunity for us. (applause) yes, it is true that, when you go to china and india, you are struck by the sheer size of the scaling-up of their industry and their business. incidentally, it is no longer true that china, india and other countries like them are competing on the low-value-added goods and services. they are now competing at the top end of the market as well – it is true. that does not just apply to china and india, incidentally. there are countries such as vietnam, for example, that a few years ago people thought of in a completely different context, but today it is an emerging economy. all of this is true. it poses a huge competitive challenge, but it also poses a huge competitive opportunity for us because those countries are going to need financial services; those countries are going to need technology; those countries are going to be importing goods as well as exporting goods. we have to have the confidence in the european union to overcome that competitive challenge. it is not a question of abandoning social solidarity. if we end up having the debate in those terms, it will lead absolutely nowhere. no one is going to believe that it is right for the european union to abandon its social dimension. i support the social dimension in europe, but it has got to be one that enhances our competitive challenge for today’s world. why? because, if our businesses are not succeeding, if our workforce is not competitive, if we do not put people back into jobs, what is the social dimension? it can only be a true social dimension if it enhances the prosperity, the living standards and economic future of our people. that is what this debate is about. so, of course, in the modern world, with the single market being completed, it is true that there will be competitive challenges as our markets open up, but there will also be opportunities. yes, it is true in today’s world that there will be delocalisation; that will happen. however, we can re-train, re-skill. we can give people support in finding new jobs. we can, for example in areas such as work/life balance and the social security systems, find new and better ways of supporting people. this is not a process about abandoning the social dimension of europe; it is a process that is about change. and change, after all, is what the european union has always been about. the european union should be the institution, above all, that can be confident about changing. it was change that led to the european union. it was change that led europe, in the wreckage of war, to decide that its future was going to be different to its past. look what we have today: countries living and working together in solidarity. (applause) the answer to anybody – british euro-sceptic or euro-sceptics from other countries – is ‘look at this parliament today, the different countries that are here, the accession countries freed from tyranny and dictatorship, here, as part of this parliament’. why should we not be confident? (mr matsakis held up a placard which read: ‘cyprus is still a british colony’) yes sir, and your country is now in the european union thanks to the strength of europe! (loud applause)of course, we can make this competitive challenge work for us. we, in europe, who have managed to overcome war and disease, who have created 50 years of prosperity – are we really incapable of modernising our social model in the way that we want? of course not! we can do it, and we can do it if we have confidence. we can do it if we are prepared to face up to challenges in a realistic way. and we can do it if we listen to our people. what our people are saying to us today is something very simple about europe. they are not saying – which is why i disagree with euro-sceptics – ‘we do not want europe’. they are saying ‘let europe answer the concerns we have. we are worried about globalisation, we are worried about security and terrorism, we are worried about the threat to our environment’. let europe be relevant on these issues. that is how we rebuild support for the european union. i said to you when i came to this parliament back in june that the first vote i ever had was in the referendum on europe. i voted ‘yes’ and i have never regretted it. i am a pro-european, i have always been one and i will remain one. but it is the pro-europeans that need to lead the case for modernisation and change. (applause)do you believe that the euro-sceptics want change? they would delight if europe did not change since it would allow them to replay what is essentially a narrow nationalist argument within the frame of making europe more effective. (loud applause)that is why it is up to us to take these measures forward. tomorrow, we will have the informal summit. let us agree the commission paper. then, let the action follow, not just from the council and the commission, but from here in this parliament too. let us act together and make a europe relevant to its citizens a reality. we can do it. we can do it if we have the confidence, the belief in ourselves and the courage to make the changes our citizens want. that is what i say and that is what we shall do. (loud and sustained applause)
mr president, i am sorry that the prime minister has had to go. but, speaking, as i do, for the real and responsible conservative delegation of meps who believe in constructive engagement in this house and in europe, i want to thank the presidency for the prime minister’s statement. he gave us a shopping list in june, but he has not informed us today of the safe delivery of the items on the list. instead, he has produced another shopping list for us, merit worthy though it may be, and i want to know – and i am sure his minister will answer this – when delivery will take place. a common energy policy was referred to by the prime minister. it seems to me that is a reversal of a previous position and i would like some clarification on that. when the prime minister was here previously, he stated in this parliament: ‘the people of europe are speaking to us. they are posing the questions. they are wanting our leadership. it is time we gave it to them.’ i very much welcomed those comments but i am bound to say that they seem to have failed their test. indeed, the prime minister is reported to have said that his own presidency has stalled. others across the political spectrum have lined up to express disappointment with the lack of progress. i welcome the agreement on proceeding with care in accession negotiations with turkey, and it is important that we send a signal to the people of that country, but the rest of the agenda seems to be stuck in a rut. the council will discuss economic reform and the challenges that the eu faces with globalisation tomorrow, but where are the concrete proposals from the presidency? where is the answer to the real challenge that europe faces from india and china? where is the leadership on the doha round? the prime minister says that it is progress on liberalising world trade that we need, but the process seems to be bogged down in a failure of political will on the part of the eu. where is the leadership on the future financing of the eu? surely, it must be understood that the united kingdom and others have vital interests. is the prime minister prepared to defend those? could he or his minister tell us what the position is? does he agree with the deputy prime minister, mr prescott, when he said that britain was ready to do a deal with the british rebate without any fundamental reform of the cap? where is the leadership on the future of europe? we thought that, during the ‘pause for reflection on the constitution’, we might have had some answers, but we have not. i said at the outset of the presidency that it should be judged not by rhetoric, but by results. there are two summits to come on the prime minister’s watch, so there is time to make real progress between now and the end. we had hoped that the rhetoric of his speech in june would now be matched by some solid progress. sweeping difficult problems under the carpet for future presidencies to grapple with is not the kind of leadership we have been led to expect from the prime minister. time is short, winter approaches. we wait for some real results. (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i regret that prime minister blair has seen fit to go and spin to journalists rather than listen to this whole debate. when the prime minister spoke to us in brussels in june, he said that the uk presidency wanted to resolve difficulties with the services directive, the working time directive, and to take forward a budget deal. today he said exactly the same about these very difficult issues. at this late stage in the uk presidency, it seems an empty presidency. we have zero progress and continuing uncertainty. still no budget for 2007 and it is not only in the accession states that this is a major concern. the uk government proposals would lose scotland one billion pounds in structural funds and lose objective 1 funding for wales. we have uncertainty in our rural communities because the uk has suddenly withdrawn support for the agricultural funding package only recently agreed. we have uncertainty, too, about what will take the place of the now dead constitution. zero progress. what a contrast with the recent presidencies of ireland and of luxembourg: small, successful, independent nations whose achievements in their six months in office were immense and excellent examples of the independent status which i believe would be best for scotland and which my welsh and catalan colleagues also aspire to for their countries. zero progress, it seems, until the december summit. it seems to me that to store up so many difficult unresolved issues for one formal summit agenda is a recipe for potential disaster. in closing, may i just say that the final act of the uk presidency will be to chair the fisheries council in december. can i make a plea that for once – just once – the uk government makes the survival of scotland’s coastal and island communities an economical and social priority, not something to be sacrificed at the negotiating table?
mr president, mr alexander knows that i know that he is not very good at answering questions. however, i shall have another go. what is the uk government planning to do about the institutionalised looting of public funds that has gone on in this place over decades? eur 600 billion – according to the court of auditors itself – has been unaccounted for since the uk joined, and that is five times the contribution that we have made over that same period. on mr blair’s desk in downing street, there is a letter recommending that the uk government set a time limit to complete the basic reform of the eu’s accounting procedures so that they comply fully with international financial reporting standards. simultaneously, the uk should declare that failure to do so within that time limit should signal the uk invoking the vienna convention on treaties. meanwhile, the uk’s gbp 1.25 million an hour should be diverted into an escrow account.
mr president, i wish to begin with the services directive. i also hope that the message has got through to the presidency that there are many in this parliament who believe that services of general interest – important though they are for social cohesion and social mobility – do not belong in the scope of that directive. secondly, on energy: presumably, a common energy policy will include very dynamic movement on eco-efficiency; what lead is the presidency giving on that? what shift in the budget will move funds to renewables in order, at least, to put them on a par with nuclear energy? it is true that it is essential to make progress on climate change, especially if we want to make progress on poverty in africa. how, then, is the presidency linking issues on climate change to other issues, for example within the lisbon agenda, promoting, i suppose, things like a really radical training strategy in order that our workforce can cope with climate change? lastly, what action will the presidency be taking in terms of globalisation to drive standards up on an international level in the labour and environmental spheres?
mr president, i am sure mr blair will be flattered by mrs grossetête’s belief that he is ‘super tony’, able to click his fingers and the whole of europe will be transformed overnight, and that he is a dictator and therefore able to get the other 24 member states to do what he wants overnight. i, however, would like to welcome much of the progress made by the presidency, particularly its involvement with parliament and the constant attention by ministers to the wishes of parliament. i welcome the progress that has been made on justice and home affairs and the very personal commitment by the british home secretary to involving parliament on data retention and making this a first-pillar issue, which is a huge step forward for relations between the council and parliament. i welcome the progress made on africa; the progress made on better regulation, particularly continuing the six-presidency programme in relation to that, and the first commitment of the presidency to work with the european commission. i welcome the progress on enlargement, particularly opening negotiations with turkey. we know that was a very difficult decision, that there are many member states with genuine concerns, and it is a great credit to the british foreign secretary that he was able to keep that process on schedule. it would have been a disaster for europe if it had faded away. we have opened negotiations with croatia, and i notice that the british deputy prime minister is there today furthering those negotiations, and we are making progress in the balkans. clearly, i welcome what the president-in-office has said today, particularly about energy policy because, as the acting president will recall, it was something i made reference to at the labour party conference. it is our failure to get the single market fully completed that is important, as well as transport infrastructure and energy infrastructure. what is missing in europe is that we have a delivery deficit. governments have got to put their money where their mouth is and deliver on their promises. i hope that will happen at the summit. member states will be made to realise europe will only progress if they do what they promised to do.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, on behalf of the prime minister, tony blair, i thank you for this opportunity to address parliament on the wide range of issues that we have covered in the course of our afternoon, looking ahead to the informal meeting of heads of government that will take place at hampton court tomorrow. not least because of the timing of this afternoon’s debate and discussion, it has been, i would argue, both a timely and a useful debate on the strategic issues facing europe in the years ahead. these are issues that go to the very heart of how europe faces up to globalisation and, as our prime minister concluded, both the threats posed by globalisation and, just as significantly, the opportunities. the united kingdom presidency, be clear, is keen to find a consensus on that future direction of europe and to see that the views expressed here today by members of this house are reflected in proposals in this area. i pay tribute to the leaders of all the political groupings we have heard from today for setting out their views so clearly and directly. i should also like to thank president barroso for his contribution to the discussion. the substance of his input, together with the commission paper to which he referred – the paper on european values in a globalised world – are testament to the extent to which member states and the commission share a common vision and, indeed, a common sense of urgency with regard to the important issues facing us today. i would ask parliament’s understanding if i do not respond to every specific point raised during the course of this long but important debate. instead, let me try to address the main themes that were raised by as many of the speakers as time allows. with the greatest of respect, i fear that mr kirkhope’s remarks reflect the risks of writing a speech in reply to a speech that you have not yet heard, in the sense that he was questioning the commitment of the presidency in terms of the specifics that would be taken forward. our prime minister made very clear, on behalf of the presidency, not just the significant achievement relating to turkish accession – about which i will say more in a moment – but also the importance of sequencing the debate about the future of europe with the issue related to future financing of europe. on his specific query as to where that would leave britain’s national interest, i would simply tell this parliament that the challenge facing britain is the same as any presidency, that we need to seek consensus across europe, as i have suggested, but that consensus will necessarily and appropriately include the british national interest. mr désir raised important issues in relation to energy infrastructure and universities. i certainly noted with interest the points raised in relation to the services directive. those are just some of the contributions that will inform our ongoing discussion of that issue. mrs koch-mehrin, who appears to have left her place in the chamber, talked of the importance of other priorities alongside r&d and in particular the issue of transparency, which has been raised both within this chamber and in a number of other fora involving our prime minister today. again, i would report to this house that there was a formal discussion amongst the permanent representatives of the issue of transparency on 19 october. we made clear at the outset of our presidency that we were keen to seek to make some progress on this issue, and that progress is ongoing. however, the discussions have already begun, as was shown by the debate held at coreper on 19 october. mr hudghton raised, in the characteristically warm style for which he is famed, the claim that the british presidency had made no progress whatsoever. i will merely point out that the prospect of turkish accession has been held out to the turkish people for 42 years. it ill behoves anybody in this chamber, whether they are for or against turkish accession, to undermine the historical significance of what was achieved back in luxembourg. given my responsibilities in answering for the presidency today, i will resist the very great temptation to engage with him on the range of issues that, as a scottish nationalist, he sought to bring to the attention of parliament today. i would simply say – and i do so as a fellow, proud scot – that the contribution he made to this debate today would not easily be confused with a ray of sunshine. in reply to mr bonde, i hope that i have addressed his point about transparency already. in relation to ms angelilli’s point, questioning whether there is enough commitment to seek a deal on future financing, i would simply reiterate the points that our own prime minister made earlier in our discussions today, making it clear that we believe both that it is necessary to have the discussion on the future of europe at hampton court tomorrow, and that this discussion is an essential prerequisite for the progress that we are determined to try and make in relation to future financing. mr mote, who appears to have left the chamber – perhaps that was a reflection on how i have sought to answer his questions in the past – raised the very specific question of corruption. the presidency is working with the commission and other member states on the commission’s paper ‘roadmap towards a positive statement of assurance’, a package of measures to reform the commission’s accounting system, making it easier for the court of auditors to give the accounts a clean bill of health. our hope is to see agreement at the november meeting of ecofin. mr karas sought an ‘open and public debate’. i would argue that what we saw today in parliament was exactly that: a frank debate on the importance of a range of issues ahead of the hampton court meeting. on other issues, specifically competence over universities and future financing, i listened with care to the very specific points that he was making from his own group’s point of view. mrs dührkop dührkop recognised the need for discussion on direction with reference to the issue of future financing, but again i would simply reiterate that we are very clearly of the view that the right sequence is to have the direction of europe set before the future financing issue is addressed. i sense some scepticism from colleagues in parliament as to the viability of that process. again, i would simply recollect a previous british presidency in 1992, where presidency proposals on future financing were tabled in the november prior to a deal being agreed in december. mrs de sarnez raised the same question. she claimed that it would be very difficult for us to resolve the budgetary issue. i would simply reiterate that, if we are not able to resolve the question of the future direction of europe, it makes the challenge of resolving the future financing of europe commensurately more difficult. in relation to mrs lambert’s points, specifically on climate change, let me be very direct in terms of the progress that we wish to see. we wish to build consensus around the threat of climate change and the need for urgent action to tackle it. that is why on 17 october the environment council, under our presidency, agreed an initial european union position for the united nations climate change negotiations in december. we are keen to provide a solid foundation of work for the european union’s medium- and long-term climate change strategy, and a range of council formations and the european union’s external summits are contributing to that end. finally, we seek agreement on the need for cost-effective, flexible solutions to tackle emissions from eu aviation and, as the presidency, we welcomed the recent study commissioned by the commission, which recommends emissions trading as the best solution. we are planning an initial discussion at the december environment council on these issues. mr piotrowski and mr szymański both spoke about the challenge of globalisation and raised important issues that i think will inform the discussions taking place with heads of government tomorrow at hampton court. mr van hecke raised points on turkey with which, with the greatest of respect, i simply disagree. i speak not only on behalf of the presidency, but i am glad to say a unanimous general affairs council, which was consistent with the previous undertakings agreed at the december 2004 european heads of government meeting and was able to open those accession talks for full membership of turkey back on 3 october. mrs grossetête acknowledged, i am glad to say, the precise historic significance of that point and of the opening of accession talks with turkey. but in seeking, i sensed, to criticise the british presidency, she said: ‘we cannot put europe together with dreams’. i would respectfully suggest that we have much more hope of building europe in the direction we would wish if we do so on the basis of our hopes and dreams, rather than simply our memories and our past achievements. as our prime minister very eloquently put it in his summation of today’s debate, if you look at the future challenges that europe faces, whether on the issue of climate change or the issue of securing prosperity and sustaining social protection in the face of the challenge of globalisation, it is not difficult to make a case for the importance of europe’s work over the coming 50 years. i therefore do not think it is inimical to the interests of europe to consciously assert the future challenges that we face. i would argue that it is a surer foundation on which to build popular support for europe than a simple recitation of past achievements. mr titley generously recognised and acknowledged the work of the presidency with parliament. i am not sure whether the current attendance in parliament is a reflection on the relative interest in the prime minister’s remarks and those of britain’s europe minister, but nonetheless i am grateful and will pass back to my fellow ministers his kind words. equally, i am grateful to him for recognising the point i have sought to make already in my contribution, which is the truly historic significance of the opening of accession talks with turkey. i was also very glad and grateful to hear the honourable member raise the broader issue of africa and the important work that has been taken forward under the british presidency in relation to that issue of major international concern. in that regard, i would emphasise the importance that the presidency, alongside the commission, attaches to the important work that still has to be done in relation to development issues at the vital world trade organization talks in hong kong in december, towards the end of the british presidency. all of us who during the british presidency have worked so hard to secure further action on both debt relief and on aid payments now see this as being a vital and important opportunity which must be grasped if we are to make progress on the third vital area for development, which is of course the issue of trade. mr geremek also raised the issue of future financing and let me say very directly that, in the light of what our prime minister has reiterated today, i do not think it is the appropriate stage for us to be discussing the compensation being offered to new accession countries, the so-called a 10, given the failure to reach agreement on future financing. now is the opportunity to rededicate ourselves and commit ourselves to the genuine endeavour of securing agreement on future financing, which of course is important to the country holding the presidency and indeed every member state. but i recognise that it is particularly important to those member states that have joined the european union recently. mr mayor oreja asked broad questions about europe’s future role and, specifically on the question of terrorism, wondered whether we would be able to translate the broader areas of work set out by our prime minister into action. again, i would suggest to members of this house that is exactly why we have commissioned the paper – in order to translate those broad areas of work into concrete achievement in due course. mr barón crespo raised the question of the constitutional treaty, which provides me with the opportunity of reinforcing one of the original ideas behind the hampton court meeting, which this discussion anticipates. we were very clearly of the view, in the light of the decisions reached by the voters in france and the netherlands, that it would be the wrong response simply to mechanistically continue a discussion of institutional architecture, when in fact probably the most accurate description of the vote – certainly in france and i would respectfully suggest also in the netherlands – was that it related to both the text and the context. it would be wrong for us therefore simply to have addressed the question of the text when there is the broader question of how europe is engaging with globalisation, to which our citizens are demanding an answer. that remains the inspiration and the intention behind the meeting that will take place tomorrow. mr tajani raised a number of important points, as did mrs roure. let me end, however, by reiterating the importance of the point made by mr saryusz-wolski, namely, the issue of future financing. as i say, i have sought to make clear on the floor of this house today the importance that we attach to finding agreement on future financing if we can at the december council. however, in support of that contention let me also mention the letter our prime minister, as president of the european union, sent to his colleagues inviting them to join him at hampton court tomorrow. he said, and i quote: ‘i know that a number of colleagues are concerned to know how the presidency plans to take forward the future financing negotiations. we have consulted widely and i believe there is a collective will to reach agreement in december. president barroso has issued some new ideas on how to kick forward that work’. i believe that the letter sent by prime minister blair to his fellow heads of government makes very clear the sincerity of our commitment to reach agreement if we can and also the importance of the sequencing that i have suggested. mr president, i am grateful once again for the opportunity to respond to this important and timely debate. i feel sure that tomorrow’s meeting at hampton court will be a real and important opportunity for member states to send a message of both unity and collective endeavour and to demonstrate the european union’s key role in responding to the challenges about which we have heard so much today.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr alexander mentioned the strategy for africa. the african commission came to see us last week, and when it presented its political agenda – with regard in particular to famine, wars, aids, desertification and illiteracy – our european problems suddenly seemed manageable. i found this an interesting two-and-a-half-hour debate on the challenges which lie ahead of us. of course we could find elements of disagreement, but we could also find broad agreement on a number of issues, including the need to establish a budget as soon as possible. i was disappointed only from one point of view. i would have liked to have heard a little more about how we can inspire the citizens’ confidence and trust in what we are doing. we know that we cannot move without having democratic legitimacy and democratic support and participation and, as you know, it is my task to ensure that – from a communication point of view – we are well equipped. this is about the content, about showing that we can make a difference in europe, but we also have to establish a good dialogue and debate with citizens in europe over the next few years. as mr alexander has commented exhaustively on that issue, i have very little to add. i would like to thank him again and i will make sure that the commission is informed of all the very specific points raised.
that concludes the item. written statements (rule 142)
we are in a “period of reflection” on the future the constitutional treaty. the presidency is right to have focussed this debate not on the treaty text, but on its context. instead of proposing to re-write treaty articles, discussions have focused on the future of europe’s social model (with the special european council), on the economy, on re-shaping the budget, on enlargement and on how best to achieve a single market in services. progress on these points will create a new context in which we can then decide what to do about the text. there are a wide range of scenarios, ranging from abandoning all reform to asking the french and dutch to vote again. in practice, something between these two extremes is likely. but whether it is clarifying the current text, adding to it, modifying it, re-writing it, or drafting a new text, one thing is clear: the need for reform has not gone away. the issues that lead all 25 governments to conclude that a new, constitutional treaty is necessary remain on the table and will have to be addressed. first, we must change the context and the uk presidency has made a good start.
i have listened to all of this debate with increasing sadness at the way in which the impressive, ambitious rhetoric of the uk presidency is just not matched by reality. where there was a clear agenda to be seized, post enlargement, to achieve real reform rather than just talk about it, the uk's entrenched position and poor style have alienated rather than enthused. had the uk come up with meaningful proposals then i believe this chamber would have been a useful ally. instead we have seen yet more hot air, on all sides, while the people of europe walk further and further away from us. we have not learned the lessons of the dutch and french votes, and now this presidency has no time to do anything useful and it is a sorely missed opportunity.
mr president, i rise on behalf of a colleague, mr kamall, who last month submitted to the council question h-0688/05 concerning china textile quotas. he has not as yet received a reply in any form. i wonder whether you could ask the council of ministers when he can expect a response. in normal circumstances we expect a response the next day.
i thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. will he include, as an important part of his and the commission’s assessment of progress, a quantified assessment of the volume of trade across the green line intended for third countries? could he also explain why it is that turkish cypriot trucks are blocked from travelling to the south? it is patently absurd that a turkish cypriot vehicle can be permitted on the streets of strasbourg, whereas it is blocked on the streets of south nicosia.
commission officials told me last year, when i was in nicosia just after the green line regulation had come into effect, that in practice the greek cypriots were taking every opportunity to find reasons for preventing its maximum application and that trade was still being very severely restricted. i realise that this is a matter for huge frustration amongst members of the council, the vast majority of whom want to see direct trade with northern cyprus. no one in the council likes to rock the boat, but is it not time to do a bit more public naming and shaming when eu citizens, whose elected representatives are unfortunately not yet recognised by this union, are being kept oppressed by one member state?
i thank the president-in-office for his reply, but is it not shameful that a year and a half after the council made that pledge to end the isolation of the turkish cypriots there is still no direct trade and no financial aid? could he give a pledge that there will be agreement by december, by the end of the british presidency? is the president-in-office aware that some of the land crossings between the north and south of cyprus are sometimes shut, so the refusal of direct air flights out of and into northern cyprus effectively shuts off turkish cypriots from contact with the outside world? there was some legal thinking going on inside the foreign office about licensing direct flights to northern cyprus. could he tell us what has happened to that thinking?
president-in-office of the council. if the honourable member is referring to world trade organization talks, a framework agreement involving both the united states and the european union, which essentially got the trade talks back on track, was reached back in 2003. the position on the prospective trade talks in the critical days ahead was discussed at the general affairs council last week and is a matter of ongoing concern and direct interest to the european commission, which leads for us in that area. however, there is a risk that discussion of the importance of the doha development round will be narrowed down to a discussion of agriculture and rural development issues. the european union has a great deal to gain from a successful conclusion to the world trade organization talks, not just in agriculture but also in services and non-agricultural market access. so we all, whether we live in rural or urban areas, have a common interest in ensuring a successful conclusion to the world trade talks. a spur to greater global trade is a spur to greater global prosperity.
president-in-office of the council. the council is well aware of the issues raised by the honourable member and shares her view that measures on energy efficiency are one of the key instruments in tackling climate change. against this background, i can assure the honourable member that the council is sparing no effort to reach an agreement on this important draft directive with the european parliament at second reading. as regards the extent to which the council is taking into account the amendments adopted by the european parliament at first reading during these negotiations, i can confirm today that the council is making a substantial effort to accommodate key elements of these amendments. several elements have to be considered in order to develop a compromise leading to an effective directive, such as how long the directive should apply, the level of the savings target, the role of the public sector, the use of energy efficiency indicators and benchmarks, as well as a reliable monitoring system. it is clear that an adequate balance has to be struck between realistic and achievable targets and over-ambitious ones that will only diminish the credibility of community legislation.
thank you for that encouraging and positive response, but i have to say that it is disappointing that the council is weakening the proposals before parliament, particularly by reducing the level of the targets and making them non-binding. this means that, under the uk presidency proposals, the target has been cut so much that, in the uk, it is pretty much what is being achieved by measures already in place. if the government has a genuine commitment to energy efficiency, when are we going to see it in terms of a toughness in the current negotiations between the council and parliament? we have had a lot of rhetoric about climate change and energy saving, but we still are not seeing the action in the actual text on the table.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful for the opportunity to respond. i was somewhat naively touched by the description of my answer being encouraging if a little unsurprised then to hear it described as disappointing. let me try to offer what comfort i can to the honourable member by addressing the specific issue of the merits or demerits of mandatory targets. we have been clear throughout that all member states are committed to increasing their energy savings in line with the targets set out in the directive. however, mandatory energy savings targets could lead to short-term measures being implemented purely to meet targets, rather than the long-term focus which is needed. it can also focus attention and resources unduly on measuring rather than doing. member states felt that it would be inappropriate to create the possibility of being taken to the court of justice on the grounds of non-achievement of the prescribed levels of savings. for example, if a member state achieved only 5% savings after six years instead of the prescribed 6%, the achievement of targets would partly rely on changes in consumer behaviour. member states aim to influence this through the different measures proposed in the draft directive. however, the effectiveness of these measures is not completely predictable or entirely within the control of member states themselves. on top of that, we already have mandatory targets as part of our commitments under kyoto. placing specific targets on individual elements of the package of measures, such as energy efficiency being undertaken to reach that target, would reduce the flexibility we require in meeting them.
president-in-office of the council. as repeatedly stated by the court of justice, the choice of legal basis for the adoption of legally binding instruments must rest on objective factors. the judgment of the court of justice confirmed that the community legislator may take measures relating to the criminal law of the member states when that is necessary for the achievement of the community policy in question. the court of justice also reiterated that, as a general rule, criminal law matters did not fall within the scope of community competence. it did not decide about the scope of application of title 6 of the treaty on european union as such, nor did it limit the scope of application of title 6 beyond the very specific issue on which the court of justice ruled. the use of article 42 is not being considered at present. the council cannot and should not seek to prevent member states from cooperating bilaterally or multilaterally on police and judicial matters, as long as they observe the obligations incumbent upon them under the treaties. cooperation outside the framework of the treaties is, by definition, not undertaken by the council. neither the council nor its presidency can therefore provide information regarding such forms of cooperation for the european parliament. information regarding cooperation on police or judicial matters under title 6 is transmitted to the european parliament on the basis of article 39 of the treaty. as regards the information to national parliaments, this is solely a matter for the individual member states, not the council or its presidency.
president-in- office, thank you for your reply, but there is considerable concern about the proliferation of fora for addressing security and border control issues. a few months ago, the french prime minister, mr de villepin, talked about how britain, germany, spain, italy and france are moving forward in discussions on police cooperation, exchanges of intelligence, border controls, and internal security. then we have the prüm convention among seven member states, which seems to go back to the trevi system of the 1970s. this is not only undemocratic and untransparent, but surely it also fails to provide the added value of really addressing terrorism and immigration challenges in common. surely this is not in the interests of the european union as a whole?
president-in-office of the council. i am certainly aware of the informal meetings that the honourable member describes. however, there is no more eloquent testimony to the approach that we have taken, whereby the whole of europe is involved in these discussions, than the role that our home secretary, mr charles clarke, has played both with this parliament and, indeed, with other members of the relevant council. i also think – if you reflect upon the remarks made by our prime minister earlier today – it is clear that dealing with the issue of personal and physical security, not least in the light of the terrible incidents that took place in london on 7 july, remains one of the key priorities for our presidency. our ambition certainly includes taking forward that work as we anticipate the conclusion of our presidency in the december european council, which, of course, will involve all member states.
i welcome the council’s description of the effect of the judgment of the court of justice, which was accurate, but i ask that the press reaction to this judgment – not least in mr alexander’s own member state – be countered wherever possible. the press has given the impression – and this has been amplified by euro-sceptics – that the commission will now be able to decide sentencing policy in different member states by itself; that is to say, it would be able to determine the sentences for different crimes. that is far from being the case. even in the community framework, the commission proposes, but the council and parliament dispose.
president-in-office of the council. i am grateful to the honourable member for reflecting on the importance of my answer. i hope that the accuracy of my answer will fulfil the purpose. the presidency of the european union is responsible for many things, such as seeking a way forward on future financing or trying to chart a course for a modern europe in the age of globalisation. notwithstanding those very considerable challenges, i am glad that our responsibilities do not extend to the editorial policies of many of the newspapers in question. it is inherent in the nature of a union of democracies to have a free press and the best way to counter some of the misunderstandings and myths perpetuated about this particular issue and more generally is to ensure that the factual information i imparted today is spread outside this chamber and comes to be understood by the wider public.
president-in-office of the council. better regulation in all its aspects is a high priority for the council and indeed for our presidency. the commission’s report on the outcome of its screening of pending legislative proposals, to which the honourable member refers, will be studied with great interest within the council. we have scheduled a policy debate on better regulation, including the screening package, for the november competitiveness council. the honourable member specifically mentioned the optical radiation directive. she will appreciate that, as the presidency, we now need to consult all member states and work for an agreement that is acceptable both to the council and to this parliament. we have all signed up to improving the way europe regulates itself. we the council, the commission, and again this parliament, need to work together to make that commitment a reality now.
thank you, president-in-office, for your reply. i am delighted that you have reiterated the commitment to better legislation, but we need action. we know that we are going to conciliation on the optical radiation directive. i understand that the council of ministers is going to get rid of natural radiation from the optical radiation directive, but why was it brought forward to start with? it was brought forward by the council of ministers. i would like to know which ministers and which member states pushed for it. that really demonstrates our need for eu council meetings to be held in public. then we would be able to know which countries are pushing for this sort of joke legislation which brings the eu into disrepute. will the president-in-office commit himself to pushing for eu council meetings to be held in public?
president-in-office of the council. i sense that the honourable member is inviting me to shed some light on the workings of the council and, given the terms of the directive in question, i hesitate to do such a thing. on the substantive issue of transparency, we had a discussion earlier today, not least in light of what our prime minister, on behalf of the presidency, stated earlier this month in reply to a question asked in parliament on the eve of the british presidency. the process of seeking to take forward the undertaking he gave to look at the specific issue of transparency within the council is now in the process of being taken forward. rather similarly to the council initiative which she described originally, it requires a degree of support beyond the presidency-in-office of the council. in that sense, it is a necessary part of making progress on the issue of transparency that we take others with us. that is why a process is now established under our presidency to seek to find a way forward.
is this not just another case where an important issue tends to get hijacked by the euro-sceptics in the press and in politics? the very valid issue of better regulation is portrayed by euro-sceptics as brussels bureaucrats imposing burdens on businesses. whereas, in fact, we all know that no european legislation can be adopted unless it is approved both by the council and the parliament and that good european legislation is an exercise in cutting red tape: one patent instead of twenty-five; one trademark and registration form and fee instead of twenty-five; a single administrative document for our lorries at frontiers instead of the forty-something there used to be. good european legislation is good, bad european legislation is bad, but we should not let the euro-sceptics claim that it is all bad.
president-in-office of the council. i certainly concur with the question the honourable member has put to me in terms of the need to delineate between legislation where it is appropriate and, indeed, where there are areas where there are alternatives to regulation that should be considered. i would, however, emphasise in my reply that the terms of his question – leaving aside the specific issue of how the press deals with these matters, for which none of us, i am afraid, are directly responsible – emphasises in my mind the importance of all the institutions of europe seeking to take forward this agenda of better regulation. this is not an agenda that, with the greatest of respect to commissioner verheugen or, indeed, to president barroso, can be achieved by their efforts alone, nor can it be achieved by this parliament alone. it needs to be a shared endeavour between the council, the presidency and parliament. if there is a genuine commitment – as i believe there is a growing commitment within each of those institutions to grasp this agenda and drive it forward – then we will hopefully in the future see less of the headlines of the type that the honourable member describes. i would, however, with a little more optimism, highlight the kind of coverage that was received in the united kingdom for president barroso’s and commissioner verheugen’s prior announcement in terms of draft legislation being ditched where it was deemed to be otiose and unnecessary. it was almost uniformly welcomed in the pages even of the most sceptical british newspapers. to establish credibility for the commission, the presidency and for parliament, it is necessary for us to be seen to be taking decisive action on what is unquestionably one of the issues of concern, not simply to the business community across europe, but also to our citizens.
mr president-in-office, i welcome your comments and your reply. i support your commitment to deregulation and a number of colleagues will try and help you achieve that. but, going back to the original point about deregulation and to the optical radiation directive, prime minister tony blair said in this house this afternoon that there is a need to regulate where necessary but also to deregulate when it is necessary for our competitiveness. would you agree that, in terms of deregulation for competitiveness, we should revisit the mother directive of this optical radiation directive, which was the original 1989 directive? i asked this question last time and got the answer that it is up to the commission to initiate revisiting the directive. we know that, but would you please undertake to invite the commission to revisit that framework directive or at the very least invite the council to invite the commission?
president-in-office of the council. the most constructive way forward would be for me to pass on to the commission the strength of feeling that has been communicated by the honourable member. i am aware that this is not the first time that this issue has been raised, and i will certainly make sure that the commission is made aware of the concerns that he has raised today.
president-in-office of the council. i could not agree more with the honourable member about the unfolding tragedy of hiv infection cases amongst women and girls. as we know, the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership is a group of 14 member states plus norway from outside the european union. the initial investment to establish the partnership was provided by the european commission with a eur 200 million allocation over five years through the sixth research and development framework programme which runs from 2002 to 2006. the partnership has a total budget of eur 600 million for the period from 2003 to 2007: in addition to the eur 200 million provided by community funding, eur 200 million will come from member states and a further eur 200 million will be sought from industry, charities and private organisations. it is the responsibility of each member state to contribute in kind through their national research activities. various projects funded by public money in each member state count towards the total eur 200 million contribution. the council has identified a need for joined-up action between the commission and member states in partnership with the clinical trials partnership to support the research and development of new tools to fight hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis, a fact underlined in the conclusions of the general affairs council on 24 may this year. the partnership has identified a number of specific research topics and will issue calls for research proposals for these topics over a two- to three-year period. only one trial relating to hiv was funded last year, which will look into providing anti-retroviral drugs to children with hiv. calls for research proposals issued last month include a specific call for research on microbicides. the title of this call for research is ‘capacity building for the conduct of phase i, ii and iii trials of vaginal microbicides against sexual transmission of hiv’. applications will come in over the next few months and funding decisions will be made next year.
obviously, microbicides could revolutionise aids prevention throughout the world. current clinical trials are already showing positive results, but this requires funding. as you are aware, mr president-in-office, the united kingdom department for international development has been very supportive of research into microbicides. do you agree with me that support for clinical trials into microbicides is essential in tackling aids and, particularly in view of the priority the united kingdom presidency has attached to africa, will the presidency encourage other member states to involve themselves with the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership?
president-in-office of the council. i would merely reiterate the technical points that i made. in some political questions the technical answer is often the best. however, it would also be important – given the terms of the supplementary question – to make clear that the european commission has no competence to get involved directly in this matter: it is a bilateral issue between the government of the republic of cyprus and the azeri government. that also reflects the position of the council, which would hope that a resolution to this matter could be found on a bilateral basis.
president-in-office of the council. the council has already indicated, in its reply to written question e-3041/05 by the honourable member, the european union’s position on the separation barrier and the advisory opinion of the international court of justice on the question. the issue of the separation barrier is a fixed agenda item in the continuous political contacts between the european union and israel, including those scheduled in the context of the forthcoming eu-israel association council meeting.
deputising for the author. – thank you for that reply. despite the early optimism felt after israel’s unilateral withdrawal from gaza, the picture today is much bleaker than had been hoped for. last week, israel broke off diplomatic contacts with the palestinian authority after three young settlers were killed near hebron. in the independent yesterday, james wolfensohn reportedly accused israel of acting almost as though there had been no withdrawal, delaying making difficult decisions and preferring to take difficult matters back into slow-moving subcommittees. how does the council, in its role as a member of the quartet, plan to bring israel and the palestinian authority back to the negotiating table and ensure that those early feelings of optimism are not wasted?
president-in-office of the council. i would certainly agree with the honourable member that there are times of frustration and disappointment as we seek a way forward in the middle east peace process. that notwithstanding, we have to recognise that the withdrawal she describes marked a significant step forward and represented a significant opportunity to move forward in the roadmap process, which had not been as clear in previous years. so i recognise the tragedy she describes and the consequences that have followed. however, on the specifics of how, as a member of the quartet, we can continue to progress, i would like to place on record, on behalf of the council, our gratitude and support for the continuing efforts of james wolfensohn. given the very constructive role he has been able to play to date, he has a critical personal role as the special envoy for disengagement. the european union is ready to help. this is a real test for the palestinian authority and for israel, but also a great opportunity. despite the disappointments and frustrations, we need to take a longer view. all those who want to see a peaceful and stable middle east must continue to support the efforts of the quartet, and the special envoy in particular.
president-in-office, i am encouraged by your reply. would you, through the eu-israel discussions and through the mediterranean process, point out to israel and its neighbours that their security is best guaranteed not by separation, fences or barriers, but by integrating with each other economically and politically and through cultural, scientific and technical exchanges? only through that mutual reinforcement of contact will security be guaranteed for the palestinians and israelis and the region as a whole.
i agree with the last supplementary question and the answer given, and in that spirit note how idiotic it was to demand the suspension of the eu-israel association agreement, as some did, or to talk about a boycott of universities in israel. this is completely counterproductive. with reference to the desire to enlarge opportunities for palestinians, to which the presidency referred, can the president-in-office give us any further encouragement about eu support for economic development in gaza and enlighten us about suggestions that there could be an eu contribution to securing the borders of gaza, particularly the border with egypt?
president-in-office of the council. the thinking, as set out by our own prime minister earlier in the course of meetings, is to try and secure agreement on the way forward in the course of the uk presidency. that suggests december as the opportunity when, under the scenario that we would wish to see, under pillar one, as our home secretary charles clarke has proposed, we can see progress being made in relation to this instrument. i hope that directly answers the question because we continue to seek to find a basis under pillar one rather than under pillar three, as the question implied.
as the president-in-office has just said, charles clarke made the welcome decision for the european parliament to now give its views on this proposal. as the parliament is now in the process of putting its view, could i ask the president-in-office to take the safeguard argument seriously? we accept the need for retention of data and we are looking at the timings now. we are moving very much in the right direction, but we need concrete and collective safeguards. will he give an assurance that that aspect will be taken very seriously, because parliament wants to see the council treat that as a priority.
president-in-office of the council. i should like to make a couple of points directly in reply to the points that the honourable member has raised. firstly, the british presidency is committed to securing agreement on the data-retention measure before the end of the year, as i said, and is taking forward work on substance in consultation with the commission and european parliament alike, which have made these points. we remain committed, however, to the belief that retention of specific communications data for a fixed period is a proportionate reaction to the threat of terrorism and that the associated costs are not excessive. on the specific point of the pillar under which we should make progress, it is important to add one point to the discussions that have taken place in parliament today, and that is to say very honestly that i do not believe our citizens will care whether the measure is decided under the first or third pillar. what we need is a proposal that can be agreed quickly and will allow for effective law enforcement without threatening the fundamental rights of european union citizens. on the specific point that the honourable member raised, we agree that all retained data must be held securely in line with data protection principles and that information exchange must be accompanied by high standards of protection. police and other public authorities will not have unrestricted access to the retained data and will have to meet national standards to access private information. the content of calls or messages – as i sought to suggest earlier – would not be retained. it is merely a question of providers keeping records of who called whom, where and when. this is part of striking the balance that we believe is necessary between protecting people from terrorism and serious crime and, on the other hand, respecting civil rights. we believe, therefore, that our response must be proportionate and respect common democratic values. we must defend our communities from the threat of attack while upholding human rights in accordance with international law and the echr. for let us be very clear: the terrorists want to attack not only our lives but also our way of life.
president-in-office of the council. i cannot comment on the specific case of the lucky lottery winner, who, as it transpired, was not so lucky when it came to the invasion of privacy described. nor, i hope, would you expect me to comment on your allegations and suggestions on public services and data protection in individual member states. the presidency is keen to see progress on data protection and we agree that all retained data must be held securely, in line with data protection principles, and that very high standards of protection should be required for exchanges of information. the police and other bodies should not have unrestricted access to the retained data and it is essential that national standards for access to private information are met. if those standards are deemed insufficient in the honourable member’s country, then i suggest that that is a matter that should be raised with the member state, just as it is raised with the presidency when we are considering data protection at a european level.
president-in-office of the council. the waste incineration directive neither precludes nor discourages the use of waste as a competitive and efficient alternative energy source. rather, the aim of the directive is to prevent or to limit, as far as is practical, negative effects on the environment and human health from the incineration and co-incineration of waste. when adopting legislation, the community legislator carefully examines possible trade-offs in relation to other community policy objectives. waste tallow is only included in the scope of the directive where it is incinerated or co-incinerated. other waste disposal or recovery operations involving waste tallow, such as its processing into bio-diesel, are not subject to the directive’s requirements but are subject to control under the waste framework directive.
thank you for your response. the commission did in fact respond to a similar question yesterday, but it did feel that there were practical problems with the implementation of this directive, especially in three member states – including the member state you and i know best, president-in-office – which had implemented it in the most rigid form. may i ask whether it would be possible to postpone implementation in those three member states until the commission can come up with a much more practical application of this directive? surely that would be consistent with our desire for a more sensible form of eu legislation. it would also benefit our scottish constituency farmers and our scottish environment.
president-in-office of the council. greatly tempting though it would be to answer, both as a scottish member of parliament and as a british minister, i would respectfully remind myself and this chamber that i answer today on behalf of the presidency. in that context, while i have sympathy with the points made by the member about the need for these practical difficulties to be addressed, it would seem more appropriate that these matters be brought to the attention of the commission by the individual member states acting in their own interests rather than it be, in the first instance, a presidency matter. however, on the way forward and on the prospect of action by the european commission, let me take the opportunity to say that the commission has indicated an intention to place a consultancy contract, within the next month, for a study of the environmental, regulatory and operational impacts of the inclusion of the burning of waste tallow within the scope of the waste incineration directive. the study will include recommendations to the commission concerning whether the application of the waste incineration directive’s regulatory controls to the burning of waste tallow is appropriate. these recommendations are expected to be made in the middle of next year.
president-in-office, this might seem in some senses quite an obscure topic, but it is extremely important. you are right to say that there is a review, but the problem is – the last point you made – the fact that the review will not be completed until next june. once companies, farmers and so on stop burning tallow through incinerators, they are unlikely to return to it, so we need a decision before the end of the year. the commission has not promised, but indicated, that it would look sympathetically on the idea of excluding tallow from the directive. only 3 of the 25 member states include tallow within the scope of the directive. a simple solution would be for the presidency to ask the commission to consider putting out an advisory note stating that tallow should not be considered as part of the waste directive. i think that would be met with a sympathetic response from the commission.
president-in-office of the council. firstly let me place on record my understanding, not least given my own responsibilities back home, of the importance of this issue and the fact that there are a limited number of member states which have moved much more rapidly than others in implementing this directive. it has not previously been put to me that the presidency should approach the commission to issue the advisory note because, clearly, up until now the position has been clear in relation to this as in relation to other directives. whether to invest in any necessary upgrading to comply with the directive when it comes fully into force at the end of this year is a matter for a commercial decision by the rendering companies and biodiesel companies burning tallow as fuel. however, if the situation is as the honourable member describes, in that there is now genuine uncertainty as to the merit or demerit of making those investment decisions because of uncertainty as to the status of the directive, i will certainly consider sympathetically the point that has been made to me and perhaps i will be able to write to the honourable member to confirm the way forward.
thank you for that response, president-in-office. it is not only tallow that creates a problem, although it is the most pressing one. there is a real need to achieve carbon neutrality and to avoid placing unnecessary costs on business. so, saying mr martin’s suggestion is one way forward, i would also ask whether the council would be prepared to support members of the european parliament in asking the commission to produce a list of materials in relation to which it will refrain from instigating any infringement proceedings under the waste incineration directive until an analysis has been conducted of their overall environmental effect when used as a fuel source.
president-in-office of the council. given the range of views that have already been expressed as to the right way forward for the presidency, the sensible approach would be to reflect on both of the suggestions and write to both of the honourable members in due course, once this debate is concluded.
president-in-office of the council. as the honourable member will be aware, the union opened accession negotiations with turkey on monday 3 october. this was a historic moment and another important step in the evolution of the european union-turkey relationship. it marked the beginning of a long and rigorous process that will be guided by the negotiating framework adopted by the council the same day. the commission started screening the science and research chapter on 20 october. the european union will continue to monitor respect for the human and cultural rights of the kurdish people and the situation in the south east of the country in general. as stipulated in the negotiating framework, turkey should consolidate and broaden legislation and implement measures on, inter alia, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and minority rights. progress in these areas should be irreversible, fully and effectively implemented. the commission will therefore continue to monitor it closely and to report regularly to the council. the council can assure members that the union attaches great importance to this issue as part of the ongoing reform process in turkey. hence progress will continue to be monitored and evaluated in all the relevant bodies.
i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the president-in-office on his role in luxembourg, a negotiation he probably will not forget. on the very serious question of the kurdish community, i am in contact with the largest community centre of kurds anywhere in the united kingdom. whilst they are grateful for the negotiations, they are anxious that you do not let the positive energy that is now flowing in these negotiations negate the very real human rights considerations the kurdish community still has. they feel that this should be a major part of any negotiation – it is a symbolic part – and we ask the president-in-office to continue to take that seriously.
president-in-office of the council. let me take this opportunity to place on record my respect and admiration for the work that the honourable member has taken forward over a number of years for communities such as the kurdish community in london. in response to his generous tribute to my role in the negotiations and the assertion that i would never forget it, i think i was in some danger of forgetting my own name by the end of 30 hours of serial and continuing negotiations! but i am delighted to say that, notwithstanding the lack of sleep and the considerable effort on all sides, we managed to reach what i think was a constructive way forward which reflected the long historical association between turkey and europe, the prospect of european membership having been held out to turkey for 42 years. it was a genuinely historic moment in luxembourg and one from which i think many of the members of the european parliament can take real pride. however, the emphasis that i place on that moment in history, as i hope i reflected in my initial answer, is that it marks the next step of a journey that turkey is on. in many ways, the destination is important but so too is the journey that turkey is taking to reach that destination. in that regard, i believe that those of us who have long argued for turkish accession to the european union have the best interests of those who have, in the past, been fearful of their human and civil rights within turkey at heart, because the very process of accession and the rigour which i sought to reflect in my earlier reply in many ways represent one of the best guarantees that can be afforded to such communities that the progress we all wish to see as turkey makes that journey over the decade or so ahead will actually be made, and that there will be a transparent means by which the scale and pace of that progress can be judged, not just by the communities within turkey but also by the wider international community within the european union.
president-in-office of the council. as the honourable member is aware, the council is currently examining the commission proposal of april 2005 for the seventh framework programme for 2007-2013 – or fp7 – which will be decided by this parliament and the council under the codecision procedure. the council has, on several occasions, confirmed the importance it attaches to research and technological development activities in the context of the lisbon agenda. i hope the commitment of our own prime minister and the presidency to that agenda was obvious to all members of this parliament from his remarks earlier this afternoon. the research programme in particular is the main community instrument. further research into respiratory diseases would be timely. respiratory diseases are currently the leading cause of death in the european union and yet these illnesses have a lower profile than many other diseases such as heart disease. the honourable member is right to draw attention to the significant economic loss caused by these diseases in particular. in the european union, 41 300 lost work days per one thousand of the population are due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease alone. productivity losses resulting from this disease amount to eur 28.5 billion annually. the commission proposal for fp7 includes health and environment as priority research topics. as regards research potentially relevant to respiratory diseases, the following topics are proposed amongst others: innovative therapeutic approaches and intervention with potential applications in many diseases; transnational research into infectious diseases and major diseases including cancer; the quality, efficiency and solidarity of health systems; enhanced disease prevention and better use of medicines; the interaction of environmental factors such as pollution with human health. the framework programme indicates the broad lines of research activity and therefore does not exhaustively list the potential individual research topics. these will be elaborated on in the specific programme decisions and during the execution of the programme, which is the responsibility of the commission. research projects are selected mainly on the basis of open calls for proposals to the scientific community and take into account various criteria such as scientific excellence and european added value.
i thank the presidency for an encouraging reply and for the commitment shown by mr blair earlier to boosting rtd in the european union budget. research is an area where a common programme, rather than 25 separate national programmes, can provide added value and can save money. health, important in its own right for the human beings involved, is also important in terms of our economic performance. the statistics you quoted show that this is an area that can tie in with and be a flagship example of how the lisbon agenda can be matched in the field of research. may i urge the council to persevere with that line of argument in its internal deliberations.
president-in-office of the council. the european union has a wide variety of instruments aimed at assisting farmers across the spectrum. none, to my knowledge, directly targets alpine mountain cattle breeds, but many are aimed at farmers that deliver the kind of benefits that many european union citizens would associate with alpine farming, such as managing sensitive landscapes and habitats and, indeed, maintaining biodiversity. in response to the subsequent point made by the honourable member, i would simply reiterate the importance of recognising the relative institutional responsibilities with regard to this regulation, and i would suggest that, if there are continuing concerns of the type that the honourable member has raised, then, given the relative responsibilities of the commission and the presidency, it might be more appropriate for them to be directed towards the commission.
president-in-office of the council. the presidency is fully aware, as the prime minister and i have stated on numerous occasions today, of the importance of reaching an agreement on the new financial perspective, if we can, by the end of the year. we will work to achieve that. it has just completed a series of bilateral meetings with all member states and the two accession states in order to determine the basis on which such an agreement might be possible. in the light of these consultations, the presidency hopes to draw up a proposal, which it intends to submit to the council. the prime minister, tony blair, said in his letter to heads of government ahead of the informal meeting that will take place tomorrow at hampton court, that he believes agreement can and should be reached at the december council, and that he will make every effort personally to achieve it by then. all of that having been said, as was reaffirmed very powerfully by the turn of events at the june european council, the ultimate determinant of whether agreement will be reached on the future financial perspective rests not on the will of one country – albeit one country holding the presidency – but on the commitment of all 25 member states of the european union to work to secure that consensus.
president-in-office of the council. let me address both of those points in turn. firstly, although it might be convenient to the honourable member's question for the united kingdom to have been isolated in a minority of one at the june european council, i am afraid that simply was not what happened. i know because i was there. five member states were unable to accept the luxembourg presidency proposals. from a british point of view, we were very clear that there were specific reasons why we were unable to accept that. however, it would be inappropriate for me to narrate or rehearse the arguments that were advanced from the british seat in june, given my responsibilities today to answer on behalf of the presidency. in relation to the general issue of agriculture, again, our prime minister addressed that in the course of his remarks today, namely that we believe it is necessary to have a pathway forward, in terms of reform, that recognises the kind of future challenges that the european union will face in the course of the coming financial perspective. beyond that, i can simply reiterate the point with which i began my answer, which is to say that, as our own prime minister has made clear in the course of his remarks to this parliament today, we are earnest in our endeavour to try and reach agreement on the future financial perspective, not simply because it would be somehow judged to be a success for the british presidency or in the interests of one member state, but because it would be in the interests of all member states of the european union to have a budget that reflects the modern priorities of the union in an era of globalisation. there are particular demands on the presidency from the a10 countries – the new accession countries – which have articulated repeatedly to us their clear desire for certainty in terms of prospective funds being available to them in the future. we have listened carefully to those points of view, consistent with our responsibilities as president. given the difficulties of the june european council, we did not immediately table proposals but rather sought to listen to the views that have been expressed in other member states. we recognise that the political context in which discussions on future financing should take place would be better served by having had a prior conversation about the future direction of europe, which is why we have organised the informal heads of government meeting tomorrow. after that meeting at hampton court tomorrow, we will then seek to make practical and real progress in relation to the challenges that we all recognise.
president-in-office of the council. draft replies to oral questions at question time are drafted by the council's secretariat in cooperation with the presidency and the member states with the aim of providing the most accurate answers to questions put by honourable members of this chamber. it should be recalled, however, that during question time the president-in-office acts on behalf of the council; hence he must decline to answer questions which are outside the council's sphere of competence, for example, where matters of strictly internal politics are concerned.
deputising for the author. – thank you, president-in-office, and thank you for reaching question 17. on the last two occasions, we unfortunately ran out of time and my question was not answered. my question is a follow-up. i believe that at the last strasbourg part-session the presidency decided unilaterally to change the system of answering questions so that the whole council had to be involved. i understand that president borrell fontelles has written formally, asking for a return to the system that has served this house well for 30 years. i would urge you to do that. there might not be many of us here, but those who do come very much value this opportunity and would not wish the answers to questions that cannot be answered on this occasion to be further delayed.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, last month’s elections in afghanistan were an important milestone and i echo the tributes paid to mrs bonino and her colleagues for all the work they did. after all, these were the first parliamentary elections to be held there since 1979. the turnout, greater than 50%, compares favourably with other electoral contests around the world. there were problems, but those – not necessarily in this house – who want to criticise need to remember the starting point, and the commissioner’s words ‘chaos’ and ‘devastation’ really summed it up. whilst afghanistan may now still be far from perfect, it has come a long way. we, as an election observation team, were very proud to witness not just women coming to the polling stations to vote – many choosing not to wear the burkha, as is their choice – but many women election officials and women standing as candidates. we know now that many women were elected. so afghanistan, for all its problems, has come a long way. on the list, one of the first names to be announced as elected was the women’s rights activist malalai joya. she will be one of 62 women members in the parliament, a major achievement and unthinkable a little while back. some of them were elected in their own right, and some of them by virtue of the ‘25% women’ rule. however, some of the ghosts of afghanistan’s brutal past have re-emerged as other results have trickled in. when we were there observing the elections, president karzai explained to us his choice, or the choice, of electoral system – to which the commissioner has also referred – based on a single non-transferable vote. this entails no public political party support on the ballot papers but presents the voters with a list of quite literally hundreds of names from which to choose. hidden in those lists of names are people who could best be described as having less than satisfactory records, some implicated by human rights groups in war crimes. former taliban governor mawlawi mohammadi, who, if not personally responsible, at least oversaw the destruction of the buddha statues, was elected in one province on less than 10% of the vote, which arguably is a flaw in the system. mullah raketi, commander of a taliban military unit, was elected in another. so the task now facing president karzai is not an easy one. it is to help those disparate forces form a useful, workable and effective legislative body. one of the challenges facing them, but a vital one, is to address the country’s serious drug problem, to which the commissioner again referred. the army, the police and the law enforcement agencies need to work together with all the international bodies to look at alternatives for the poppy growers. another is to address the frightening availability of weapons, which was very visible to us in kabul and around afghanistan. last year, the dutch presidency made much of its plans for supporting and helping afghanistan. these plans must not be forgotten. the election observation mission of which i was proud to be part must be part of a longer, deeper process of support for afghanistan.
madam president, mrs ferrero-waldner struck exactly the right note at the beginning of her speech when she said that this was an historic occasion: the first election for decades and the first parliamentary election in which we believe women were ever allowed to take part. i personally found it a great honour to be a member of the team that was able to witness this momentous event. i want to thank very warmly our good colleague, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, who led us so wonderfully well. this is the second time i have worked closely with him in an election; we were in lebanon together just before that. i also want to thank my long-time colleague whom i have always admired, mrs bonino, who has been committed to afghanistan for so long. she was brave enough to go there while the taliban were in power. very few women would have shown her courage and commitment, and she is continuing her work. i chose to monitor the women-only polling stations. i saw thousands of women, most in burkhas with their faces shrouded. of course, they rolled them back when they came into the women-only polling booths. they could not do a great deal once they were there. some spent half an hour puzzling frantically, trying to understand what the piece of paper in front of them meant, what to do and how to make a mark. they had no education. let us not forget that afghanistan is one of the two poorest nations in the world. its health statistics are comparable only to somalia’s. we will be helping afghanistan for years to come with education, preventive health care – the basics. it is right and proper that we should do so. however, we should also remember those from the european union who have already given their lives for afghanistan. led by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, we witnessed a wonderful, moving tribute to the deaths of the 17 spanish troops, whose names will be enshrined forever where they died. they sacrificed their lives for the future of the people of afghanistan. we cannot give up. the country is desperately poor. we shall be there for a very long time, but it is the sort of job to which the european union is wonderfully suited. (applause)
member of the commission. madam president, azerbaijan is one the european union’s key partners in the southern caucasus region, principally due to its geostrategic location and energy resources. last year we therefore proposed to the council that azerbaijan, together with armenia and georgia, be included in the european neighbourhood policy in order to further strengthen our relations, building on the partnership and cooperation agreement in force since july 1999. the commission has been following the preparations for the parliamentary elections of 6 november 2005 with great attention and some concern. the events last week, such a short time before the elections, are a source of further concern. some azeri government ministers were dismissed by president ilham aliyev and subsequently arrested on charges ranging from corruption and embezzlement of state funds to an attempt to stage a coup d’état. we cannot make any judgement on these accusations, nor are we willing to interfere with the decisions to be taken by the azerbaijani judiciary. however, we wish to point out that it will be crucial for azerbaijan to carry out, in a very transparent way, fair and thorough investigations and, if necessary, a balanced trial in order to establish the truth. the arrests are inevitably contributing to a worrying deterioration in the atmosphere of the electoral campaign. unfortunately the campaign has already been marked by several episodes of violence and some specific incidents. as a consequence of this climate, we have learnt of dozens of candidates who have withdrawn in the last hours. access to state and public tv is no longer being granted to opposition parties, or it is subject to so many restrictions that it cannot be considered satisfactory. in all the contacts the commission has had recently with the azeri authorities, we have strongly insisted on respect for fundamental freedoms, including, of course, freedom of expression and the possibility for political parties to hold public rallies without undue restrictions and to access mass media. we have also stressed several times, to opposition representatives as well, the need for such rights to be exercised in a moderate and peaceful way. we fully concur with the assessment of the electoral campaign by the osce-odihr in the two interim reports published so far. it cannot be denied that some progress has been made compared with the parliamentary elections of 2000 and the presidential elections of 2003. more candidates than ever were registered; state authorities have proved cooperative with international observers; all parties have been granted some access to television. finally, we welcome the decision by the azeri authorities to introduce systems such as finger-inking that could dramatically reduce the possibility of multiple voting, although this came very late. whilst on the one hand commending azerbaijan for this progress, we agree with osce-odihr that it might not be sufficient. the worrying deterioration in the climate of the electoral campaign over the last few days threatens to completely overshadow this limited progress. we will continue to monitor the situation very closely throughout the electoral campaign, on the day of the election and in the aftermath on 6 november. in accordance with our well-established practice, we will not deploy a separate election observation mission; as with the osce countries, support will be given to the osce office and the odihr office which will take on that task. as we have stressed several times recently, these elections will be a litmus test for azerbaijan and its aspirations to come closer to the european union in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. on the question of the neighbourhood policy, i can only say that we will start consulting on the action plans in the near future. we hope that we might be able to work out satisfactory action plans by next year.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, last june i spoke in plenary in the human rights debate. the situation in azerbaijan at the time was particularly serious, with allegations that the government was holding political prisoners and indeed that torture and ill-treatment in custody was common. this time i speak as the resolution’s co-author, as i am being sent to baku by this parliament as an official observer for the 6 november elections. but i also wear the hat of the european parliament’s rapporteur for the european neighbourhood policy, which is now being extended to the three caucasus republics. i welcome president aliyev’s decree which, theoretically at least, orders state officials in the central electoral commission to observe and implement free, fair and transparent elections. i also believe that the recent dismissal of the old guard hard-line ministers resistant to political change, like the former health minister ali insanov, suggests that the dominant pro-government yap party finally realises that the time has come to manage the transition peacefully to multi-party democracy and bring azerbaijan closer to european democratic practices. the newly-elected parliament will no doubt be more mixed politically, with so many registered candidates to choose from, and will have new, younger and more independent technocratic mps as well. the system of government is still heavily presidential, so the parliamentary election will be more of a test of willingness by the state to commit itself permanently to western-style democracy, rather than a real change in the exercise of power which will only come about in 2008 at the next presidential election. nevertheless, there are still grounds for concern in terms of press freedom, balanced political access to the media, and the right of free assembly and protest. it is also true that azerbaijan is still affected by the nagorno-karabakh unresolved frozen conflict which can only be resolved peacefully by dialogue through the minsk group. i regret the huge rise in military expenditure in the region and threats of escalation and a fresh outbreak of hostilities. azerbaijan will shortly enjoy a huge injection of funds, as oil – now at historically high prices – will flow from baku via tbilisi to the turkish mediterranean port of ceyhan. it is important that this money be used to enrich the entire country fairly, and there must be transparency and a renewed commitment by the government to fight public corruption. lastly, i hope that the action plan negotiations with azerbaijan will shortly be resumed, once the direct air links to turkish-occupied northern cyprus are discontinued, as this matter is clearly of deep concern to the republic of cyprus as an eu member state. i, as the co-author for my political group, commend this resolution to the house. it will send a strong message to the government of azerbaijan about where this house stands and the european parliament’s hopes in particular for that country’s democratic future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the third parliamentary elections since independence are taking place against a background that is deeply discouraging in this autocratic and corrupt system. violence and harassment are being meted out to opposition supporters, journalists and human rights activists. prominent opposition leader rasul guliyev was allowed to register as a candidate, but the authorities then refused to let him return to baku and had him arrested in ukraine. i recently helped to free a member of his family. a british citizen and a constituent of mine, she was detained in baku when customs officials claimed to ‘discover’ a gun – clearly planted – in her luggage. she suffered chronic ill health as a result of being detained and is now recovering. there has been a temptation for the west – europe and the united states – to stress continuity and so-called stability. they have an eye on the oil, the new baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline having been opened last may by bp chairman lord browne. foreign criticism of the 2003 presidential elections and 2004 local elections, which were deeply flawed, was inexcusably muted. have we not learnt that there can be no real stability without democracy, the rule of law and an honest economy? this time the european union needs to send a very strong signal that there cannot be a partnership with azerbaijan without democracy and human rights there. president aliyev has to decide whether to embrace the democratic process or try to maintain autocratic rule with just a thin veneer of legitimacy. we need to tell him that, if he wants the european union as a friend, there is only one choice.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, as rapporteur on the european neighbourhood policy, i believe it is clearly in our mutual interests to strengthen ties with our southern mediterranean partners in north africa and the middle east, as formally set up in the barcelona process 10 years ago on 28 november. along with our us allies, this sends a clear message that we support, in this region, a strengthening of civil society, an open market economy, democratic pluralism and respect for fundamental human rights, including media freedom, independence of the judiciary and the rule of law and, in particular, women’s rights, as the previous speaker mentioned. tunisia is an advanced country in the eyes of the arab world in this respect. environmental cooperation is also one of our priorities. these countries, and in particular their growing populations, will provide growing markets for our own products. i believe that it is in the european union’s interests to target substantial development aid through the current meda programme, which, i believe, amounts to some eur 3 billion per year, and eventually through the newly anticipated enpi – the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument – to assist the euromed group of countries with enhanced economic growth in order to prevent rising unemployment and rising tensions, which will in turn, from the eu security point of view, provide recruiting grounds for islamist hardliners. we have seen that in the recent past during the moroccan casablanca bombings, the tragic civil war in recent years in algeria and the rise of hamas, hezbollah and islamic jihad in the occupied palestinian territories. we must remember, of course, that the tragic madrid bombings were carried out by maghribi salafists. we must also try to prevent large, uncontrolled migrant flows to the european union. otherwise, this will cause a total breakdown in the good intercommunal relations we enjoy at present. we all hope for a free trade area by 2010. the new euromed assembly facilitates dialogue between traditional enemies such as israel and the arab world. this forum uniquely allows them to resolve their problems peacefully. israel’s withdrawal from gaza, in my view, is a good start to putting the roadmap for peace back on the agenda. this assembly is also a forum for the exchange of ideas between the islamic world and the majority-christian european union. i am optimistic about the spread of our democratic values in this region, with the recent elections in iraq, palestine and lebanon and now, even, some tentative democratic moves in this direction from egypt. on behalf of my political group, i strongly commend the jäätteenmäki report to the house.
in writing. amendment 263:this budget line would have given an authorisation to use funds to communicate the benefits of the euro. as scotland, as a current part of the uk, is not a member of the euro i have accordingly abstained as this is not a matter for me. amendment 440:this budget line would have extended the translation facilities of the acp assembly to include all languages, as opposed to the current working languages of that assembly. while i would in principle support the extension of translation on the basis that all languages are of equal dignity, the costs of this move to such a vast number of languages would be prohibitive. it would also, i suspect, be unnecessary as the current system has worked well enough up till now.
in writing. it is a real pity that parliament today has voted to maintain tobacco subsidies. half a million eu citizens die needlessly each year from tobacco related illnesses. it is only through concerted action that we can fight against the tobacco industry and protect public health.
in writing. british conservative policy is firmly committed to ensuring that budgetary commitments should not exceed 1.0% of gni contributions. we would like to see an eu that spends taxpayers' money wisely on initiatives that support the lisbon objectives while eliminating fraud, mismanagement and wasteful spending such as tobacco subsidies. for these reasons, we have voted against amendments or proposals that would breach the 1.0% ceiling without, in our view, contributing to the promotion of sustainable growth and jobs in europe. however, we do support projects that will encourage the development and supply of new-generation energy solutions.
in writing. in the budget vote i voted for cap reform, for cuts in tobacco subsidies, for the end of the transport of lives animals over 8 hours, against cuts in the northern ireland peace programme and for assistance to acp banana and sugar producers.
in writing. i voted for heading 3 of the budget vote today because i want to add no less than 200 million euros in payment appropriations to a range of budget headings for the lisbon strategy which the council reduced at first reading. the main areas which would boost eu competitiveness include increases for programmes to support small and medium-sized companies, but above all for the 6th framework research programme. the payments for education programmes are also increased, by 35 million euros for socrates, 20 million euros for leonardo da vinci and 3 million euros for e-learning, whcih i fully support.
in writing. i voted to delete this budget line because i do not believe that we should in this day and age be refunding the export of live animals, often in dreadful conditions. i accordingly voted to end this practice.
in writing. i wish to record that i abstained on amendments dealing with travel allowances at cost because i believe this is covered in the member's statute.
in writing. i welcome this report. i would like the barcelona process and structures to be used to a greater extent to encourage dialogue and interaction (economic, social cultural, educational, technical etc) between israel and its neighbours. i am convinced this is the only way that the peoples of this region will be able to live in peace. there can be no security behind barriers.
in writing. i welcome this report which rightly praises the ombudsman during 2004. the ombudsman has show diligence and forcefulness in dealing with complaints from the eu citizens regarding the activities of the eu instutions. he is proving to be a true champion of citizens rights to fair and open treatment by the institutions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would wholeheartedly endorse the previous comments of my group colleague, mr romeva i rueda, and add my own disbelief that the situation in the western sahara remains as bad as it so clearly does after all these years of european hand-wringing and alleged involvement. the situation today remains as grave as it has been for many years. the unseemly, shabby debate in the conference of presidents yesterday demonstrated europe at its very worst. when we europeans concern ourselves with tactics, internal politics, the considerations of our own domestic situations, we are weak and divided. if we remember our core principles of the promotion of democracy, human rights, freedom from torture and above all of dialogue, then we will speak with a loud and clear voice. this motion goes some way towards that. we must take a view on the motion before us today, otherwise, what is this parliament for? the motion is worthy and valid and i hope the delegation of our parliament will speak with a suitably clear voice on this matter when it visits the region.
mr president, 1975 to 1991 was a period of bloody conflict in western sahara between morocco and polisario, ending with a un-brokered ceasefire, which called for a referendum for independence, yet to happen i have to say, monitored by minurso. seventy-six countries now recognise the sahrawi democratic republic. in 2001 james baker proposed a five-year period of autonomy within morocco before holding the referendum, but polisario rejected it, particularly on the issue of who would be allowed to vote. so, legally, the 1991 un settlement plan remains in place. in the meantime morocco has continued its repression, including the recent alarming allegations of arbitrary arrests, ill treatment of prisoners in custody and even allegations of torture. algeria has now come into a large windfall profit from the high oil revenues it is enjoying and is therefore in a position to rearm polisario. that is extremely dangerous, because there could be a resurgence of hostilities. we must avoid hostilities and stop war breaking out again at all costs.
author. – mr president, it is not our place to say whether tenzin delek rinpoche is innocent or guilty. however, it is our place to point out human rights violations when we see them. there are real concerns about his detention, trial and sentencing, which were, i believe, miscarriages of justice. in a news bulletin of 24 october, the chinese government said that it was an internal affair for china and that we had no right to interfere. if it is a matter of human rights, we have every right to interfere; that is our job. it is unclear whether he had full access to legal advice throughout the trial process. the chinese said that he had two lawyers. my sources said that he had no defence counsel whatsoever. my sources also said that he did not confess and he has never confessed to this alleged crime, despite the torture he allegedly suffered for several months before his trial. when he was tried three years ago, there was international outcry, and at that time i understand that the chinese government promised a retrial in the supreme court. that has not happened. he must be given a fair trial in full accordance with international fair trial standards or released forthwith. there is no other option.
mr president, i should like to thank you for visiting the scottish parliament last week. your words were much appreciated. however, there is an issue that many of my scottish constituents are growing increasingly concerned about and that is the situation of the victims of the pakistan earthquake. already 80 000 people are dead and 3 million people are homeless. the who is concerned about health and outbreaks of diarrhoea and, with winter approaching, there is the additional concern of how people will keep warm. the un needs usd 550 million to be able to do a decent job and it has just usd 135 million. although the eu has given eur 93.6 million as an aid package, we need to do more. i hope this house will back me in calling for more action to be taken to help the survivors of the pakistan earthquake to rebuild their lives. time is pressing. we need urgent action before more people die due to the onset of winter.
mr president, i would like to inform the house, and for that matter the commission, that the new ambassador of the united states of america to the european union, mr boyden gray, is a lawyer with a special interest in public finance. he has been fully briefed about the level of fraud and corruption here and is now fully acquainted with much of the detail published last month in international currency review. at a time when public accountability – and not just concerning financial management – is a big issue on both sides of the atlantic, his arrival here and his appointment are to be much applauded. while i am on my feet, i should also like to point out that not a single word on eu fraud and corruption published last month has yet been challenged or refuted.
mr president, i rise in relation to the seventh framework research programme currently being considered by the institutions. research is, of course, an area where it makes sense for all our member states to pool their resources: to have a common programme is much more effective. part of the programme relates to public health. that has come under pressure from those who argue that it does not meet the priorities of economic competitiveness as defined in the lisbon agenda. i should like to refute that argument and call on all those who are considering this programme to refute it. health research is not only worthwhile in its own right. it is also worthwhile in relation to its economic merits, especially research on respiratory health, which is currently lacking from the programme. respiratory health problems are europe’s second biggest killer, accounting for one in four deaths. that costs our health systems eur 102 million per year and is the major cause of absenteeism from work. we must make sure that area of research forms part of the programme.
mr president, this house frequently and properly raises its voice in support of the victims of terrorism. i invite it to do so again. after decades of ira- and other terrorism in northern ireland, we have hundreds of unsolved murders, many of whose perpetrators have fled the jurisdiction. now, in a quite appalling legislative move, the british government, in delivery of a sordid deal with the ira, is proposing to afford amnesty and sanctuary to those on-the-run terrorists. the rights of their victims to have justice is to be shamelessly denied, while a farcical process is put in place whereby the terrorists need not even attend court, will not be required to serve a single day in jail and will never be permitted to be questioned again about their abominable crimes. this legislation is a gross affront to justice and the human rights of victims; it is a stomach-churning illustration of how low governments can stoop when they set about appeasing terrorism. i call on this house and the justice commissioner to speak out against this wretched legislation.
madam president, globalisation is here to stay and it is here to bring benefits. it is the role of legislators not to resist globalisation but to make sure its benefits reach as widely and deeply as possible. in this respect we should acknowledge and welcome the proactive role of the commission in supporting the un conclusions. i share with mr kułakowski the regret that the presidency of the council does not, apparently, regard this debate today as important enough to command the presence of a minister. the social dimension of globalisation is highly important, because globalisation brings with it change and all change is a challenge. our role is surely to help our society equip itself and adapt to meet that challenge much more strongly. as mr crowley said so eloquently this evening, this is all about people. the original brejc report addressed the subject sensitively and sensibly. sadly, as so often in the employment and social affairs committee, it now embodies amendments that are less sensitive and certainly less sensible. that is why we have to trouble the house to vote tomorrow to get closer to the original report and delete most of those amendments, except of course my own! we cannot support the sudden suggestion to make csr – corporate social responsibility – compulsory. we cannot support calls for exporting the eu social model as a condition of opening up world trade. we cannot support calls for increasing the eu budget. the ppe-de group has therefore put forward a number of amendments to remove these and other muddled messages. i very much hope that the house will support those revisions. if it does not, the uk conservative delegation would agree with mr hökmark, as well as many other colleagues, and reluctantly vote to reject this report as it stands. we want to get back to a report about the social dimension, not just the socialist dimension.
mr president, my household is a fairly typical european household: we have a tv set in the sitting room, one in the kitchen, one in our bedroom and one for the grandchildren when they visit. we subscribe to sky digital by satellite, which costs around gbp 40 – eur 60 – a month, and we pay our tv licence for the bbc public service channels. even though there are hundreds of digital channels, we will be able to view only one digital channel at a time on all these sets because we have only one viewing card. at the moment, while my wife watches ‘extreme makeover’ and our grandchildren view the cartoon channel on digital, i can still get the news on one of the five analogue channels. after the switchover – which is only two or three years away now in the uk – we will be stuck with only one channel at a time unless we pay for extra decryption boxes and cards. to cover all the interests in a typical household, this could require up to four or five cards. the cost could be gbp 200 – eur 300 – a month; gbp 2 000 – eur 3 000 – a year over and above the licence fee. it is essential that the commission ensure that the digital service providers, such as sky, allow multiple-channel choice in each household at reasonable cost and that they do not make the multiple choice that digital can offer so absurdly expensive that it cannot be availed of. i therefore ask the commissioner: what will you do about the availability and cost of multiple channels in each household? what will you do to ensure monopoly positions are not unreasonably exploited and what will you do to mitigate the cost of even a single set changeover from analogue to digital for the less well off and the socially vulnerable?
mr president, i very much welcome this initiative by parliament and by our colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy. i asked to make a short statement at the end because last friday i was invited to participate in a conference held by the british regulator ofcom under the auspices of the presidency. one of the major issues on the agenda of that conference was spectrum regulation and management, particularly in the context of the so-called digital dividend – in the phraseology that some will have used this evening – which relates to the releasing of high-quality radio frequency spectrum as a result of the switchover to digital television. parliament needs to pay far more attention to the issue of how radio spectrum will be allocated and managed across the european union, because it is clearly important that we have some alignment of goals there. member states are already making decisions about how that digital dividend should be spent. some people, including the last speaker, have talked about the fact that there will be a unique conjunction of events, in that the same pieces of spectrum will become available in every european country. in the interests of creating a more active market for digital content and breaking away from some of the artificial constraints that we have at the moment in relation to national boundaries for digital content, there are certainly opportunities that we must take, but in order to do so we need to generate ideas that will encourage member states to take advantage of them. we are not seeing many such ideas bubbling up so far. i think there is a lot of work for this parliament to do. i therefore welcome mrs barsi-pataky's initiative in the committee on industry, but i hope you will agree that this is just the beginning. first of all we must disseminate the importance of digital switchover; secondly, we must sensitise our colleagues to its fundamental economic importance and, thirdly, we must start to tackle politically the issue of how we deal with spectrum allocation and the digital dividend.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as human rights watch recalled a year ago, disappearances were a trademark abuse of latin american military dictatorships in their dirty war on alleged subversion. now they have become a united states tactic in pursuit of al-qa’ida. illegal detention without charge or trial in guantanamo bay or iraq is bad enough, but secret detention, where people are kept incommunicado with no access to lawyers and at the mercy of mistreatment or torture, is the blackest of black holes. we see the us congress now seeking to bar claims for habeas corpus and president bush and his henchmen trying to stifle the mccain amendment which would ban inhuman treatment of us detainees. in those circumstances, if a credible newspaper and a credible human rights ngo allege that secret war-on-terror jails exist in eastern europe, and specifically in poland and romania, what do we do? we all agree that it would be devastating to the eu’s reputation and credibility if those allegations were found to be true. articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty stipulate the need to respect human rights and the rule of law. commissioner frattini says there is no evidence, but what has he done to try and find out? when the allegations came out ten days ago, we were told that member states would be informally questioned, that technical experts from the relevant directorate would be in contact with their counterparts in the 25 member states, plus 4 candidate countries. then we learned that such an examination did not amount to an investigation. i am not impugning the good faith of the polish and romanian governments, but we know that secret intelligence services sometimes have their own agenda. i am left with a sense of unease and residual doubt when respected organisations have made allegations, but we cannot honestly say they have been thoroughly investigated. all our mechanisms in the eu for ensuring that human rights standards are respected are frankly inadequate: no peer review, no monitoring, no enforcement. the weakness of your commission, mr frattini, was brought out in your remarks. the precedents are not encouraging. the eu failed to establish a common stance, let alone any joint initiatives, to press the us to release our own citizens from guantanamo bay. the us went around eastern and south eastern europe penalising countries with loss of military aid if they refused to sign opt-outs from the international criminal court for us personnel. the eu did not offer to pay the difference. i want you to insist that this matter be put on the agenda of the next general affairs council and of the summit in december. this matter needs to be taken up at a political level in order to ensure that the legal guarantees that the eu is meant to offer are fully respected.
mr president, last friday condoleezza rice, the us secretary of state, ordered the highest level enquiry into the leaks to the washington post and human rights watch. clearly the united states government believes there is some veracity in these allegations. today the commissioner has, on the one hand, told us that the copenhagen criteria might have been breached by romania and that article 6 may be being breached by poland, but we already knew that. the commissioner has come here today and told us that there is no evidence of these breaches. well, both poland and romania issued official government-level denials last week, so we knew that. we asked the commission to investigate the leak that the united states itself is concerned about – the highest level leak to the most credible of sources. the economist newspaper and other bodies are repeating these allegations. these are not radical newspapers or non-credible organisations. mr lambrinidis said we already knew that the cia operated black sites and torture centres in other parts of the world. we want to know if it is happening in the european union. we want to know if it is happening in the candidate countries. as you said, commissioner, it is the most serious breach of treaty obligations. you are not investigating it. we need an investigation which brings credibility to this house so that we can leave this debate knowing whether this is true or false.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank those who have spoken and i can say that everyone in this house shares the same principle, a principle which i myself stressed in the introduction. there is unanimity of opinion on the basic principle of the european union, namely absolute respect for the life and dignity of every person. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. this is the starting point, because it is clear that, alongside the serious violation - i have mentioned article 7 of the treaty - there is a second consideration: these facts, if true, would constitute crimes. some people have said it, many have pointed it out, and i agree with them completely. it is therefore clear that the national laws of the member states have a duty to investigate such cases. in my country, as everyone knows, there is an investigation under way into some serious allegations against cia agents for illegal activities on italian territory which, if proven, would constitute a serious crime. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that legal instruments must be used if they give us the full possibility of achieving the result that we all want, the commission and parliament. let us see what action the commission has taken, is taking and will take. many people have asked that, and perhaps i did not express myself adequately in my introduction. i think we should talk about political action, which is constantly being demanded of the member states and the countries applying for accession to the european union. i am referring to possible activities, such as the comparison and dialogue with ngos, which obviously have some of the information they have provided to the media, and which could of course also provide to the commission, the dialogue with other institutions which have additional information, with bodies which can provide information to the european commission, and finally an intensive and continuous dialogue with the authorities. i am referring in particular to the congress and the senate of the united states of america, which have decided to launch investigations, the results of which could be communicated to the european commission. i am in the habit of speaking very frankly, and i ask you to forgive me if i am perhaps too frank. however, i believe that the indignation which we all rightly feel at these grave crimes, these absolutely shameful acts, is not enough to change the rules of the treaties. when some of you speak of 'investigation', you are referring not only to what the commission intends to do and will do, namely a political inquiry, but also to inspections, interrogations and the seizure of documents, even if these documents are not voluntarily handed over. even if a resolution were adopted in parliament calling for the commission to exercise these powers of inquiry, the commission would not be able to do so, because the treaties do not give it such powers. when we use the word "investigation", we must use it in its full meaning. do we have the power to question the interior ministers of the candidate countries and the member states of the european union indicated? no, we don't have it. do we have the power to acquire classified cia files if those files are not turned over? no, we don't have it. do we have the power of the council of europe? no, we don't have that power. to that end, the treaties must be amended. i would be very happy if the european constitution had already come into force, since it gives the european commission more powers than it currently has. when it comes to the powers of national magistrates, some in this house might think that i have the same powers as a prosecutor or a judge in one of the member states, but in reality there is no comparison between the power of a national magistrate and the power of the european commission. even if none of us like it, these are the rules of the treaties, so when we talk about inquiry, we must use the term in the sense laid down by the laws and, above all, by the treaties. in conclusion, i intend to exercise all the powers of political inquiry, as they are permitted by the treaties. we are allowed to ask, but if a member state answers that there have never been secret prisons on its territory, i will need proof, like that of abu ghraib, photographs, evidence and witnesses. we do not have the following at the moment: i'm not saying we'll never have them, but i don't have the power to summon someone, or to order the interrogation of a person who refuses to speak, because those powers belong to different bodies. i am therefore talking about a political inquiry, an action to bring to light the facts, if any, and to gather evidence. of course, important evidence can also come from members of parliament, because these are political actions. these are not legal actions, but actions which, if proven, would lead to political sanction. this is the respect for the rules that i have always adhered to, even when i don't like it. i do not like the fact that the powers are limited in this case, but these are the powers which the treaties give me and these are the political powers of inquiry which i intend to exercise.
colleagues, i have to draw your attention to the fact that we have among us observers from both romania and bulgaria, and they are very welcome. since romania has been mentioned frequently during this debate, one of the observers wished to take the floor. i pointed out that this could not happen, but he has passed a note to me expressing his concern about some of the attacks made upon romania and stating that the romanian authorities would welcome any inquiry into the allegations made in the washington post. i state that for the record. i do not want to set a precedent, but the observers are among us and they obviously have strong feelings about these matters. the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on banana import arrangements.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – here we go again. another eu import tariff scheme has come unstuck: recently sugar, now bananas, and all for pan-eu harmony. this scheme is hampered by the origins of member states, many of whose former colonies produce bananas and whom they now rightly wish to assist. although complex, the three-tariff system helped, with the c quota reserved for acp countries to export up to 750 000 tonnes annually to the eu at zero rate. hence the problem: because non-eu countries, especially latin america, now want parity. i suggest two solutions. we can go to tariff only, as proposed for 2006. in october 2004, eur 230 per tonne was suggested, but that was too low for acp and too high for dollar countries. however a common tariff is set up, it will disadvantage acp countries, causing loss of production and unemployment. already the windward isles report that 24 000 small producers have dropped to 7 000 under dollar-country pressure. in many acp countries bananas grow in terrain unsuitable for other crops, so unemployment grows massively. will these people migrate, some to europe adding to our 20 million unemployed, or will they take to crops like cocaine that will grow on the former banana plantations? i suggest an alternative solution based on the repeated statements that we are supposed to be in an eu which retains its individual member state status. mr barroso recently claimed that regulations might be cut. combine the two: ditch the banana import scheme and make individual member states sort themselves out with their own arrangements. after all, we are all grown-up democracies. eu countries would buy on the open market or support their former colonies just as they wish, without repercussions on the world market. the uk operated commonwealth preference up to 1972 without great problems. if that sounds a little nostalgic, well, why not? we owe these former colonies. what is wrong with a little humanity in trying to maintain employment in the third world? rather that than the arid scratchings of the bureaucratic brussels pen-pusher.
commissioner, firstly let me say it is regrettable that the commission chose the path of litigation rather than that of negotiation, which would probably have provided a much more practical solution and might have produced a more satisfactory result. the reality – as others have said – is that, for instance in the windward islands, bananas provide employment for over a third of the working population and account for 50 to 70% of export earnings. it would be extremely serious if that were to be jeopardised. as you suggested, commissioner, preferences for countries such the windward islands harm no one and are not aimed at damaging the trade of latin american exporters or of any other exporters. the best approach would be to find ways of postponing the single tariff, and to negotiate and agree to a fair solution that allows all suppliers to continue to trade. arbitration has obviously been a failure, but the commission must try to ensure that the trade can continue until such time as you, in conjunction with the development and trade commissioners, can find a viable way of ensuring that other sources of income can be found for poor farmers in the windward islands so that they continue to have a future. finally, i fear that bananas and sugar will be well and truly on the agenda in hong kong as far as the acp countries are concerned.
member of the commission. mr president, the member states that have not or that have only partially communicated implementing measures to the commission will be subject to infringement proceedings for non-notification under article 226 ec. it should be emphasised that such infringement procedures concern only the communication of national measures and do not refer to the quality of the implementation. once complete notifications have been received, the commission will examine the national implementing measures, which might at a later stage lead to infringement proceedings due to incorrect implementation of the directive. the directive does not confer any comitology powers on the commission. it is not a ‘lamfalussy’ directive. therefore, no mandates are given to the committee of european insurance and occupational pensions supervisors – ceiops – nor will any implementing measures be adopted by the commission. as there is no practical experience with the directive yet, it is too early to take a position on the need for comitology and, therefore, on the role ceiops could take in this. however, ceiops has an important role to play in the context of article 21(2) of the directive and supervisors have the duty ‘to collaborate closely with a view to facilitating supervision of the operations of institutions for occupational retirement provision’. in that respect, ceiops’ occupational pensions committee is currently drafting a multilateral cooperation protocol, such as already exists for insurance. a draft is out now for a second open consultation with stakeholders. it is expected to be adopted by the ceiops members’ meeting in february 2006. in the past two years, the commission has organised two meetings with member states in order to help them implement the directive. to that end, the discussions focused on issues identified by member states, the commission and other stakeholders as a potential source of difficulty for the transposition and which may give rise to a diverging interpretation by the member states. on the basis of those meetings, the commission has concluded that although some articles appear to cause problems, that is not the case for all member states. hence it is difficult to define any particularly problematic provisions. this is not surprising, since member states’ pension structures and arrangements differ significantly. nonetheless, there is reason to believe that the implementation of article 20 – cross-border activities – causes problems for many member states. however, it is too early to assess whether the origin of those problems lies in the formulation of the legislative proposal as adopted by the european parliament and the council, or just in different interpretations in the various member states. in 2006, a first meeting will be organised to discuss further some of the issues which have been identified as problematic and essential during the examination of the national implementing measures. the in-depth analysis of the national measures transposing the directive has not yet begun. at this stage the work focuses on the quality of the partial or full notifications. an indication as to the extent to which member states have adopted additional quantitative investment rules and elements that might jeopardise the proper functioning of the directive can only be provided once most member states have notified. as the commission expects a large number of member states to communicate their legislation to the commission before the end of this year, such an indication can only be provided in the course of 2006. a number of defined benefit pension schemes took advantage of the 1990s bull market to reduce the level of contributions or even take contribution holidays instead of building up their financial reserves. when the inevitable market downturn occurred, some of these reserves were found to be insufficient. in response, sponsoring undertakings and member states’ supervisory authorities employed different solutions: increased contributions, top-up payments, reduced indexation of pension rights, changes in the pension schemes’ rules and the closure of schemes to new entrants. irrespective of the remedies applied, all stakeholders again realised that a pension fund involves a long-term commitment to employees and pensioners. this recognition has only been reinforced by other developments, including the application of ias 19 for sponsoring undertakings and stricter rules for the supervisory valuation of technical provisions. sponsoring undertakings have realised the need to achieve improved cost control and more stable earnings in order to match their pension promises. a shift from traditionally defined benefit final pay schemes to pension schemes whose cost can be more easily controlled can indeed be observed. however, there is clear evidence that this shift has not been solely towards purely individual defined contribution schemes. hybrid schemes combining defined benefit and defined contribution elements are also available. the rationale behind all these changes is better cost control and more stability in earnings for the sponsoring undertaking. there is a trend towards some blurring of the borderline between the three pension pillars, not just between the occupational second pillar and the individual third pillar, but also between the second pillar and the statutory first pillar. this is not a problem, as the pillar structure is only a general classification system, and schemes where assets are allocated to individuals are to be found in all three pillars. this is not the case in every member state, as pensions reflect specific cultural and historical situations. thus, although the basic differences between the first, second and third pillars will remain, the solutions envisaged may be equivalent. different choices have been made in the 25 member states as to the existence, level and funding of state schemes, occupational schemes and individual arrangements. there is not one eu-wide answer to the challenges of the ageing society. appropriate solutions must be adapted to member states’ different pension systems. therefore, the final responsibility lies with member states. the commission could be of help to member states by ensuring that the european regulatory framework for financial services supports the emergence of secure market-driven responses to retirement financing. bottlenecks must be removed so that assets earmarked for retirement can be managed as efficiently as possible, thus allowing europeans to enjoy the highest possible payouts and annuities on retirement. the directive fulfils this objective. in the second half of next year, the commission will present a white paper in the field of ucits, which also play a role in the pension arena. other initiatives that aim at improving european pension provision include the recently adopted proposal for a directive on improving the portability of supplementary pension rights, and the ongoing infringement cases in the field of equal tax treatment of pension contributions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we all agree with the commissioner that increasing the uptake of pensions is of paramount importance, especially in relation to voluntary pensions, whether by virtue of this directive or through any other means. however, incentives to take up pensions, as he has quite rightly said, remains a competence of the member states as these may be linked with the tax and benefits systems. i am not proposing that there should be any change to that. nevertheless, it is important to share best practice. could the commission therefore indicate whether it is already monitoring incentives or has plans to do so? can it envisage a mechanism through which best practices can be shared and encouraged? in the context of cross-border provisions, which we want to encourage in order to achieve a better and more vibrant pensions market, public confidence in all regulators and underlying guarantees – and not just in those of one’s own state – is very important. it is also important, especially for schemes relating to the self-employed, that it is understood that the information provided by the different countries should be comparable. article 9 of the directive requires that members be given sufficient information on risks. article 10 requires that the annual accounts should give a true, fair and comprehensive view. other articles provide that members should have access to those accounts. however, this raises the question of what constitutes sufficient information, and whether account will be taken of the differences between prevailing practices in member states, or at least whether potential investors will be alerted to the differences that may exist in areas in which they are not comparing like with like. clearly it is also important for the solution found to this not to result in a multiplication of regulation and for ceiops to take that into account in any forthcoming protocols.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, perhaps the commissioner could explain what he means by a ‘tird’ pillar. it sounds rather unsavoury to me. is not the real problem of the implementation of the directive on occupational pension schemes that there is no political will for its implementation? in western europe there is a serious demographic problem as the population grows ever older, with the birth rate continuing to fall in the leading industrial countries of the european union. there is a major pensions crisis, which national governments are simply failing to address. in the case of final-salary schemes, as indeed with public service pensions, the concept is that young people pay for the old; that one generation supports the next. it is not only the demographics that are against the old economies of western europe, but also the so-called social model. this much prized social model seems to consist of 40% youth unemployment, welfare dependency and the break-up of the traditional family. thanks to the economic absurdities of this place, as well as of national government, we cannot rely on the generational support system any longer. indeed, in the united kingdom, it is politically even worse: there are over gbp 800 billion of unfunded public service pensions, with recruitment in the public sector out of control. pension funds in the private sector have been taxed since 1977, taking over gbp 5.5 billion every year out of ordinary people’s savings, whilst politicians enjoy privileged pensions at the expense of the hard-pressed taxpayer. indeed, if public companies now fail to show pension liabilities in their accounts, the director would face prison, yet national government finance ministers flout the rules daily. in my own constituency there is a company called ballast nedam which has simply abandoned its pensioners in a most disgraceful way and set up a new company to avoid its responsibilities. this is quite against the directive, which has failed to be implemented. is it not interesting how keen governments are to standardise car heaters, windscreen wipers and spirit bottles but, when real people need help, as usual the european union is found wanting?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, here we go again. i stood here nearly a year ago to comment on the tenth anniversary of the european court of auditors’ refusal to sign off the eu accounts. i said then and i will say again that it is time to admit that this form of european government is an abject failure and that it should be abolished. the nation states would be far better off looking after their own interests. personally i would not trust the european commission, past or present, to look after my grandchildren’s pocket money. three weeks ago i made a speech in this house calling for the 2006 budget to be rejected on the grounds that this parliament has no business authorising further expenditure when we have the shame of a decade of dodgy unapproved accounts behind us. well, this is year eleven; it is a shameful situation that cannot continue. the court’s latest report is another litany of the failings of european commission bureaucracy. we were promised that a new computer system would close all the loopholes. the reality is that that the accounts will still be about as watertight as a colander. the members of this institution should feel a strong obligation to the taxpayers of europe, for it is their money that is pouring through the holes of the colander. the british government is under an obligation to spend taxpayers’ money wisely and yet it goes on tamely writing the cheques to the european union. make no mistake, i shall go on being the conscience of this institution. i shall keep pointing out what a disaster it is. my conscience is clear. is yours, i ask? incidentally, i look at the attendance of members here today as an indication of the importance they attach to the handling of the taxpayers’ money by the european union. enough said.
mr president, a week ago the ecofin council rejected parliament’s proposals for national declarations, which in effect means that we will not see a positive das in the foreseeable future. the ecofin proposals are a poor substitute for real action and came out of a two-day panel of experts meeting which i attended. it was a meeting that reminded me of margaret thatcher’s comments at a similar meeting when she complained of being surrounded by people who found every reason for not doing things and not changing things rather than giving her solutions to the problems she had. parliament needs to know which member states agree, and which disagree, with its position. in all seriousness, the comment from the uk independence party should not be disregarded. why, indeed, should we agree a new financial perspective when supervisory and control systems are so blatantly flawed within the member states? that is a message that must be conveyed to the council loudly and strongly.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i congratulate mr barroso for producing this remarkable document. mr barroso, your determination to create a unitary state of europe has not been diminished by anything as inconvenient as the referendum results in france and holland. i even wondered whether mr blair’s drive to have less regulation and to scrap unnecessary laws might slow you up a little bit; but no, undaunted you have produced the most ambitious work programme ever seen in the history of the european union. what a pity that the british presidency could not be bothered to turn up this morning to listen to you! on top of the extension of powers over justice and home affairs, the establishment of eu visas, everything down to regulations on children’s toys, i notice that on the budget you say that there must be adequate audit and control systems. that is pretty rich in the very week that the court of auditors is refusing to sign off your accounts for the eleventh year in a row. you lost the constitution and you are now treating the voters of france and holland with contempt. many french people will have felt that by voting ‘no’ they would have stopped the flow of european bureaucracy. however, just as their faith in the maginot line failed them in 1940, once again the enemies of free, independent states are coming in around the side and engulfing all. you proved from this work programme that you have learned nothing and that you simply do not get it. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission for delivering the commission’s programme very much in a political context. i want to take up one small point: when i arrived in this house six years ago, unlocking the potential of europe’s internal market was seen in the context of taking full advantage of e-commerce and the arrival of the euro. to that end, there were many initiatives in the field of civil justice, ensuring that where we give the possibility to move, to do business, to work, to innovate, to trade and to buy, we deliver the balancing legal framework that would give security and access to justice. the war on terrorism has intervened and the whole criminal justice area has become paramount, but should it be to the exclusion of civil justice, which merits just one paragraph and no new initiatives or even consultations in this programme? you only have to look at our postbags to see that we are not delivering in the area of civil justice. you need only look at the agenda of the committee on petitions. the lives of more of our citizens are blighted by the lack of access to civil justice or cross-border redress mechanisms than, fortunately, are directly touched by terrorism. please concentrate on civil justice.
mr president, as my group’s coordinator in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to welcome the attention given by the commission to completing the internal market in a number of important areas and to thank the commissioner and his team for that. we will follow it up very closely. having said that, i am very critical of this document overall. it is a strange document. colleagues were talking about priorities. i just want to quote from it: ‘the top priority today is to restore sustainable dynamic growth and jobs in europe’. that is on page 27 of the document. in what sense do we have any priorities when we have a disconnected list of 96 items assembled together in arbitrary order, not making it clear which is legislative and which is non-legislative? in any case i say this to you, mr barroso, that in any sense of work planning i want to know what is already in progress. i do not just want to know about 96 things that you are starting, i want to know how you are getting on with the existing work we have asked you to do and what priorities you are allocating to that. there is another thing i want to know, because i have no sense of this whatsoever. it is great to see all the members of your commission here, but we want to see you working much better together, in more integrated policy-making, in order to tackle that crucial issue that you yourself put at the top of your agenda, which is that of competitiveness, jobs and growth in europe. that is not going to be delivered by 96 separate proposals, but by your commission working together to tackle that. why can we not see that in your programme? i say that also to mrs wallström who is sitting here and who is supposed to be helping us communicate these things – supposed to be helping us. how can i go to my constituents and businesses in my constituency to say that the commission is going to work on competitiveness and jobs with this set of 96 disconnected proposals? i would say, however, that it is worth looking at what is going on in commissioner verheugen’s work on cars in the context of an integrated competitiveness initiative. i want to commend him for this initiative and for many others. let us see more of that type of work and not this shopping list of disconnected proposals.
mr president, one of president barroso’s themes this morning was the need for us to inspire the people of europe, too many of whom have become disillusioned with the whole concept of our european union. to do that, we need to give voice to the reasons for europe in terms of how europe is relevant to people’s lives and their worries, their hopes and their ambitions. we must help europe rediscover its drive towards economic growth and competitiveness, ruthlessly cutting out waste and bureaucracy and concentrating on the prerequisites for that agenda. those prerequisites are, admittedly, deregulation and lower taxes, but they are also healthier people living in a healthier environment. above all, we must afford efforts to sustain those less able to cope with challenges and opportunities of life, those who live with disabilities or life-threatening diseases and poverty. therefore, we look to the commission to step up its responsibilities for health, health promotion, public health, health emergencies, mental health, disability, patient mobility and information for patients. we also need to press on with our agenda for the environment, with climate change, emissions trading, air quality, waste reduction, reuse and recycling, noise and the urban environment, the protection of wildlife and habitats, and a reduction in animal testing. what we have to say with regard to europe is equally relevant to our policies for the developing world, but none of this is possible without adequate monitoring and enforcement or proper budgetary control. those aspects so often let down our good intentions in europe and contribute to the public doubts about europe’s ability to be good news for them.
mr president, i welcome many aspects of the commission programme but i am disappointed that there is not more reference to disabled people or elderly people. i would have like to have seen a specific disability directive that outlawed discrimination in access to goods and services and similarly one on age. with regard to health and safety at work, i would also like see an amendment to the 2000 biological agents directive, to protect health workers from contracting hiv and hepatitis c from needle-stick injuries. there are over one million such injuries across the eu every year. however, i welcome the commission president’s commitment to cutting down on unnecessary legislation, which of course is a burden on business. in that spirit, could he look again at the 2004 electromagnetic fields directive and the serious impact it could have on the use of state-of-the-art mri scanners and see his way to bringing forward an amendment to this directive to make sure that mri scanners will be protected in the future?
mr president, i also wish to welcome the presence of the whole commission and deplore the absence of many colleagues, which is in part because we all have tv monitors in our offices and it is so easy to watch the debates whilst working in your office. however, it would be far better if members were here. nevertheless, what is being said is not being lost, of course: it is being heard outside. i welcome the reference in the commission’s work programme to plan d for democracy, dialogue and debate. that is not the focus of our discussion now. we must remember that this work programme is very important but that it is taking place in a wider context, which is a profound debate about where our european union is going, what its future is. we are in a period of reflection – and in a period of reflection about the constitution – which has begun not on the text but on the context. this work programme is part of that wider context. the future of our social economic model with the special summit at hampton court is part of that context. the need to find in december that crucial deal that we were close to in luxembourg on the medium-term budget is part of that context. if we can get the context right, including the work programme, then we will be able to come back and look at the text of the constitution in one or two years’ time and see how we can best move forward on that. let me quickly take up one other point: better regulation. we are all behind you on that, mr barroso. however, in the context where those anti-europeans in my country and others portray the european union as one massive bureaucracy-producing machine spewing out regulations, it is incumbent upon all of us to point out that, when we get it right, european legislation is an exercise in cutting red tape, relieving burdens on business, providing one set of rules for the common market, one patent, one registration for a trademark, one form to fill in, one fee to pay instead of 25. good european regulation cuts bureaucracy and red tape. that point must also be made in this debate.
mr president, i beg the indulgence of the house in bringing to its attention the latest appalling developments in the case of the bulgarian nurses imprisoned in libya. this morning, the libyan supreme court delayed a decision on their case until january 2006. colleagues will know that this is a most appalling case. the nurses have been in custody for more than six years now, and have been under sentence of death for over a year. it is disgraceful that this case is dragging on in the way that it is. i therefore call on the council and the commission to do everything within their powers to exert pressure and influence on the libyan authorities in order to bring this case to a satisfactory conclusion and secure the release of the bulgarian nurses, and indeed of the palestinian doctor. (loud applause)
mr president, i have a one-word oral amendment, which has the support of the rapporteur and hopefully other parties and which i hope is not controversial. it concerns corporate social responsibility. the current amendment reads: ‘supports the commission’s efforts to raise awareness among multinational companies of their social responsibilities, which have as yet had little effect’. the oral amendment is to change the word ‘little’ to ‘limited’, so it would read: ‘... which have as yet had limited effect’.
in writing. i support my colleague mrs berès' report amending the agreement establishing the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) enabling the bank to finance operations in mongolia. i had the opportunity in may this year to visit mongolia for the first time as a participant in the socialist international's asia-pacific committee in ulan bator. in mongolia since the fall of communism, unlike in many of the other countries of central asia, we have seen the establishment of a vigorous democracy where political power was transferred from one party to another on several occasions in a peaceful manner. it is a poor country where recent droughts have posed enormous problems. it urgently needs help with the current government's ambitious development programme. today's vote will help this process and i strongly support it and hope it will mean funds will flow.
in writing. the adjustment of visa requirements for athletes taking part in the 2004 athens olympics to allow greece to meet both its schengen requirements and its obligations to respect the olympic charter proved a great success. i am delighted to see this proposal to grant the same conditions to the athletes taking part in the 2006 winter olympics and the paralympics.
in writing. i supported this report which, although of a technical nature, draws attention to circumstances which can inhibit the fundamental right of free movement which eu citizens supposedly enjoy. while i am not in favour of the eu having competence over social security provisions, i do believe that more could be done to facilitate the portability of certain entitlements. for example, disabled people are effectively denied their right to free movement - to seek employment for example - because the level of support currently provided may not be available in a new location. this is one of many issues which require to be addressed.
in writing. while this report is largely a technical adjustment it should not be underestimated in terms of its importance to obtaining genuine free movement of individuals in the internal market. the report will assist with the simplification of regulations concerning social security schemes across the eu. its purpose is also to complete the simplification of procedures on receiving medical care abroad by extending some of those modifications to the identical procedures regarding benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases.
in writing. i voted in favour of the maat report with a degree of disappointment as it really fails to go far enough. in the forest of dean, which i represent, 40 years ago elvers (glass eels) were fished in abundance by the local population and sold on the streets for consumption as part of a traditional breakfast with bacon and eggs. more recently, while stocks have declined, demand from primarily the far east, the baltic states and the rest of europe have removed elvers from the local menu as they have been exported to eel farms. this is unlikely to change, but a small but important industry can be helped and aided. the major problems seem to be: first, a lack of scientific information on the life cycle of elvers - we are not even sure where their breeding grounds are, although the sargasso sea is the prime suspect; second, increased levels of pollution and barriers to the eels accessing the streams, rivers and ditches where they flourish and grow. stocks of elvers wax and wane even if there is a downward overall decline. what works best is not clear. what is wanted is more research. i hope this report will ensure that the european commission finally starts to do what it can to help.
in writing. this report outlines the dramatic decline in european eel stocks. this does not appear to be the result of over fishing but linked to environmental factors. it is clearly important to know the precise cause be it pcbs, global warming or fish diseases. we need this information not just so that action can be taken to protect eel stocks but because of the wider environmental concerns and problems this might highlight.
in writing. i voted for the position of the employment & social affairs committee, which had been improved by amendments at committee stage. today i also supported amendments which sought to make social and environmental reporting obligatory and supported the kind of reform of the cap which would "make poverty history".
in writing. i welcome this report on the social dimension of globalisation which is parliament's initial response to the report by the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation. it is important that those who are disadvantaged by globalisation are assisted to adapt to new circumstances. this applies to citizens of the eu as well as countries and citizens throughout the world. it is therefore pleasing to see this report recommend a number of internal and external policy actions.
in writing. i support the principle that the common agricultural policy must be reformed, and that in line with the aims of the make poverty history campaign, which i strongly support, we must not export our own poor policies into the wider world. of course, we must also safeguard the welfare of european farmers and the security of europe's food supply, though this is cmopatible with a more sensible common agricultural policy, the status quo is untenable.
in writing. i fully support this report. the impact of globalisation has positive and negative consequences. we cannot forget the 20 million people unemployed in the eu at the moment, nor the fact that one in five children in the eu lives on the brink of poverty. we have a responsibility in this house to deal with these issues.
mr president, there have been two early casualties of reach, the first of which is truth. too many in the chemicals industry, and particularly its german lobbying arm, seem to believe that if you are going to tell a lie, then lie big; the costs of reach have been grossly exaggerated from beginning to end. the second casualty has been the commission’s claim to be neutral in its support both for economic developments and for environmental protection at one and the same time. after commissioner verheugen’s quite disgraceful attempts even to undermine the position taken by the british presidency, we are entitled to believe that the balance in the commission is now firmly anti-environment. a word of praise from our political opponents for the british presidency: it has done well to secure an agreement between the 25 member states without sacrificing nearly as many of the original objectives as some of us feared. i hope it secures a common position before the end of december and i hope that this parliament votes on thursday in a way that will bring it close to the presidency’s position. however, we cannot yet be certain. there are still members here who reject the very idea that industry should bear the burden of proving that the chemicals it puts on the market are safe. there are still members here who would strip away the testing requirements almost completely: ‘trust us, they are chemical companies’ is their argument. there are members here who still believe that chemicals of high concern should continue to be sold even when safer substitutes are readily available. mr sacconi and mrs ek have negotiated compromises that will meet the genuine concerns of industry while still setting high standards of environmental protection. however, we have yet to see if they command majority support. there is one matter that has hardly been considered: we are leaving a host of issues here to the new chemicals agency, but we have no idea what criteria it will adopt or whether it will be lax or rigorous in its interpretation. so, if you think the lobbying over the past year or more has been intense, wait until the industry starts trying to stuff the agency with its own people. we will have to watch that process like hawks.
mr president, many in my group have highlighted the enormous weaknesses in the sacconi-nassauer compromise in terms of health and the environment and of course i agree with them. however, i want to focus on the additional weaknesses of that compromise from an animal welfare perspective. concerning data sharing, for example, the compromise provides far too many loopholes. while groups of companies would be permitted to bring forward a single registration, separate registrations would still be allowed, making it much more likely that repeat animal tests will take place. the proposal would allow data over ten years old to be freely shared, reducing if not eliminating the possibility that repeat tests would take place. the compromise, by contrast, only allows data over 15 years old to be shared, again increasing the likelihood that repeat tests would be undertaken. this is completely unacceptable since, as well as being extremely cruel, animal testing is crude and inefficient. the problems of extrapolating test results from animals to people and from laboratory doses to real life are now well documented. just last week an article in the scientific journal nature described regulatory animal testing as being ‘stuck in a timewarp, largely based on wasteful and poorly predictive animal experiments’. that is why i tabled amendments to annexes v to viii of reach. many of these were adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, a move that has already helped to increase the pressure on the commission and industry to push for further work on non-animal tests. however, if we are to seek a better approach we must not let this opportunity to force greater scrutiny of animal tests to pass us by. we must challenge conventional assumptions about animal test methods and scrutinise test methods with as much rigour as we scrutinise other aspects of this proposed new chemicals policy, because exposing animal tests to scrutiny will prompt the kind of debate we cannot afford to ignore. if we ignore it, then reach and all future chemicals regulation will be tied to test methods that deserve only to be consigned to history. lord bach said that the vote on reach is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. i agree and that is why it is so important we get it right.
mr president, once again we are faced with legislation designed for one purpose but dressed up as something else. who could argue with the need for control of the use of chemicals and the protection of public safety? registration – maybe; evaluation by scientists – of course; but authorisation by officials in a chemicals agency? a nightmare! reach is not about the control of chemicals; it is about bureaucrats responding to the multinationals, both sides of an unspoken agreement happy to exploit the insatiable desire for yet more social engineering and centralised control. reach has been sold to a naive public as a panacea for a better world, ‘switch selling’, i suggest, of the shoddiest kind. if reach passes, even as it stands, with the compromise, any small enterprise with a new idea or a product that might really make this world a better place is likely to find the price of entry into the marketplace impossibly high. the law of unintended political consequences already says that the effect of reach will be to export jobs. enterprise in this sector will be stifled in the european union and will emerge in other countries that are not hamstrung by crushing legislation. that will be the effect and it is the antithesis of what is needed.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur. sir tom blundell, chairman of the royal commission on environmental pollution, said that, given our understanding of the way chemicals interact with the environment, you could say we are running a gigantic experiment with humans and other living things as the subject. that was the reason for bringing forward this proposal. however, he said that if we followed the initial proposal, this huge backlog would take 50 years and see some 6 million animals destroyed. therefore, the key is to get prioritisation, to make the system workable, to protect health, to reduce the number of animal tests and to achieve it all in ten years. we are embarking on this because most chemicals are safe and we depend on them, but some must be handled with care, some are so dangerous that we need to find safe alternatives. however, we do not know which is which. since 1981 we have regulated new chemicals, but that covers only some 3 000 substances out of the 100 000 in existence and it has taken 40 different regulations and directives to do that. hence we want to make it simpler: we want a single regulation, more understandable ways of establishing which substances are among the estimated 20% that will need proper assessment and authorisation. industry needs certainty and clarity. so, with our compromises and our amendments, we go for prioritisation, pre-registration, ‘one substance, one registration’, data sharing, a balance between volume and risk, special account of the needs of small firms without sacrificing public safety, and mandatory data sharing to reduce and phase out animal testing. we also need to ensure that our european industries are not disadvantaged, so we must go as far as we can to ensure that substances in articles imported to europe are covered by the same rules as those produced here, without infringing wto rules. we must also take account of the very real worries among developing countries, especially on the issue of minerals and mining, and ensure that we do not damage their fragile economies.
mr president, very seldom in the history of this parliament has there been such a high level of interest in our legislative work. quite rightly so, because this legislation, along with the other points mentioned in this debate, provides us with a tremendous opportunity to lead the world in the regulation and authorisations of chemicals, and to influence what goes on not only within the european union, but also beyond our borders with other chemical producers across the world. this is something that we need to take seriously because we really can have an impact. that is why it is so important to support the sacconi-nassauer compromise and ensure the passage of this legislation through parliament, so that we can improve human health and the environment across the world, while at the same time maintaining our own industrial competitiveness.
mr president, buried deep in the committee opinions attached to the sacconi report we find a slim contribution from the committee on budgets showing funding forecasts for the proposed european chemicals agency. those forecasts appear as an admirably clear table covering the years 2006 to 2016 and allowing for eur 78 million of taxpayers’ money over this period to support the agency. curiously, this amount is spread very unevenly over the ten years in question with most of it, more than eur 50 million, concentrated in 2014 and 2015. even curiouser, no one on the budgets committee, including the chairman, seems to know anything about these figures, even though they appear in the budgets committee’s opinion. why is this? and why is the agency expected to use two-thirds of its ten year budget in only two years of the next decade?
president-in-office of the council. mr president, in its conclusions of 28 june 2004 on the commission communication on the operating framework for european regulatory agencies, the council noted the existence of various decentralised community bodies which fell within the broad heading of european agencies. it noted that, while these bodies had certain formal characteristics in common, they were in fact very diverse. the council therefore called on the commission to provide a clear definition of regulatory agencies according to their competences and tasks. it also considered that a future framework should identify which criteria should be applied when creating regulatory agencies. in particular, it was essential that any decision to create or maintain an agency be justified on the basis of real need and cost-benefit analysis, taking account of the availability of relevant expertise, and including impact assessment. in february 2005 the commission presented a draft interinstitutional agreement, an iia, on the operating framework for the european regulatory agencies. this contains rules concerning agencies’ tasks, executive responsibilities, legal base, objectives and mandate, seat, structure and operation, evaluation and control. the commission proposal suggests that an iia would be appropriate ‘to ensure that the three institutions are involved from the outset in establishing the basic conditions to be met when acts are subsequently adopted to set up sectoral agencies’ and that ‘this type of legal instrument ... does not rule out the possibility of more detailed arrangements subsequently being concluded as part of a framework regulation’. however, the draft iia presented by the commission goes beyond the establishment of arrangements for cooperation between the institutions as established in the treaty, as it concerns the adoption of supra-legislative substantive legal rules which would have the effect of binding the legislature in the future by a procedure not laid down in the treaty. the council would like to refer the honourable members to the declaration on interinstitutional agreements annexed to the treaty of nice, which states that interinstitutional agreements ‘may not amend or supplement the provisions of the treaty’. in its conclusions of 28 june 2004, the council acknowledged that ‘the evolving and varying nature of the responsibilities’ of regulatory agencies justified the examination of all questions related to their structure, including the composition of management boards and the respective functions of their bodies. it added that ‘this examination should take into account, inter alia, the competences exercised by, and the nature of the tasks allocated to, each agency’. although an iia may have certain binding legal effects in so far as its contents express the desire of the three institutions to enter into a binding commitment towards each other, this instrument cannot be used to adopt legislative or even supra-legislative rules. the proposals on this legal issue are therefore on the table for consideration by the council. the council is ready to examine a horizontal proposal for agencies which addresses the legal issues that i have raised in my reply.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, my group views with concern the proliferation of agencies in recent years. the number has grown enormously. they seem to be spread like confetti around the member states, more to ensure that each member state has an agency on its territory than with a view to the need and benefits of having a separate eu agency to deal with the matter in question. our concerns therefore relate to a number of things: to the cost, of course; but more importantly, does not this proliferation of agencies undermine the executive role of the european commission? there are politicians in some of our member states who would like to see the commission broken up into a series of specialised agencies to undermine the supranational executive that we have. what of accountability? the commission is at least accountable to this parliament. commissioners and their civil servants can very easily be brought in to be questioned and cross-examined. we vote their budget. if necessary – heaven forbid that it should be necessary – we can vote them out of office. however, when a matter is delegated to an agency with its own structure – usually intergovernmental – and its own board, which is accountable in a totally different way, then the accountability is inevitably lessened. we therefore support the idea of an interinstitutional framework agreement to address some of these issues. it could at least correct some of the excesses. it could provide for proper accountability. it could have a standard structure. at the moment every single agency seems to have a different structure. parliament could be involved in the appointment and scrutiny of the board. i hear the council’s answer that it does not like the idea of an interinstitutional agreement but instead would be willing to look at a horizontal proposal. i would like the council to enlighten us as to what kind of proposal that might be. would it be a framework regulation or legislative decision of some kind? we will not give up pursuing this matter. we liked the approach that the commission put forward in its proposal and we will not let go in terms of ensuring that, if agencies are to exist, they must be properly accountable to the elected institutions of the european union and not go off on a tangent by themselves.
madam president, i am glad that question time is being extended to 8 p.m. because it is all too easy for the time allotted to it to be reduced, as has happened so often in the past. my point of order concerns my own question, no 69, which i tabled specifically because mr mandelson was scheduled to address the house and take questions this evening. it is about the wto, yet inexplicably it seems to have been listed as a general question. could you explain why?
thank you, commissioner rehn, up to a point. what you are saying is that the commission knows no more than national data protection supervisory authorities why these special searches are being made. the reason that the topic is so important is that demand for access to eu databases is growing at a fast pace. in the case of eurodac, how do we know that these special searches were not unauthorised access by national agencies masquerading as searches on behalf of individuals checking their own data? if the commission does not know the answer, what trust can we have in its watchdog function as data protection comes under increasing pressure? i would remind you that the commission is responsible for the enforcement of the rules of this regulation.
member of the commission. the commission obviously understands, for example, the wish - i was asked recently about this - to see a unilateral ban on imports of illegal timber applied. however, it must be admitted that in practice this approach would not solve the problem of illegal logging. firstly, by introducing a unilateral ban on the import of illegal timber into the union, our customs authorities would not be given an instrument to confirm or deny the legality of the origin of the timber. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the wood is used for the production of wood products. in order to be able to distinguish between legally sourced wood and illegal wood, which is the great difficulty we have, we obviously need the full cooperation of the exporting countries. secondly, a european-wide ban will not be a point of access to address the problem of governance in producer countries. this is why the commission has proposed an approach based on the signing of partnerships with timber producing countries. this facilitates the cooperation required between the european union and the producing countries to tackle the problem of corruption and the perceived governance gaps that lead to illegal logging. without concerted and intensified efforts to eradicate corruption in the timber sectors of producing countries, measures to curb the trade in illegal timber associated with illegal logging will have no impact. thirdly, the partnership approach is targeted and proportionate. it allows attention and resources to be focused on countries that are hardest hit by the problem without affecting trade with countries where illegal logging is not a major problem. most trade in wood products is not subject to a presumption of illegality. we must, however, agree on how to react when trade with non-partner countries is suspected of being illegal. this issue will be further examined in a future evaluation exercise. i would like to emphasise that the measures considered in this evaluation exercise are not intended to replace the voluntary approach advocated in the flegt action plan, but to complement it where appropriate. i would also point out that this is an evaluation exercise and that we do not intend to propose any new legislative proposals at this stage. the commission is committed to reviewing and analysing the feasibility of additional legislation to support the flegt action plan, as i have been asked to do here. so i have delivered the message, as i promised, to the council. unfortunately, this work has been hampered by delays in confirming the active participation of the member states and by our decision to concentrate the limited resources on implementing the voluntary approach set out in the action plan. the evaluation is ongoing and is being carried out in close cooperation with the member states, as a large number of potential measures fall within national competence. options assessed include public procurement policy, money laundering, stolen goods and anti-corruption legislation, in addition to the feasibility of the practical aspects of the new legislation to control imports of illegally harvested timber. finally, to give you a final piece of information, during my short time as research commissioner i had the opportunity to visit the commission's research centre near milan and saw some interesting work there. satellite monitoring systems that allowed very precise monitoring of both deforestation and reforestation. i think it would be useful to see if we do not have a tool here to at least, in our political dialogue with countries, encourage them to be a little more willing to help us. this is a technological means that would allow us to get closer together, to follow more closely the evolution of this situation, i do not know if you have ever had the opportunity to visit this centre, to go and see what it can do, i can assure you that i was very impressed. it is quite possible to monitor the evolution of this situation with relative precision, sometimes dramatically, sometimes a little more optimistically.
commissioner, i am sure that parliament wishes to strengthen your arm in terms of taking further action on the basis of the report which, under the action plan, was to be submitted by 2004. one way in which we can strengthen your arm is to press for action under the very welcome summit agreement signed with china in september. can the commissioner state how he thinks that will help stop the laundering of wood in china and that region?
member of the commission. the commission is in favour of increasing the transparency and accountability of the wto so as to reinforce the legitimacy of this institution. on the functioning of the wto, the eu has put forward a number of proposals for improvements, notably relating to the preparation and management of ministerial conferences, with the aim of facilitating more efficient negotiations and decision-making amongst an ever-growing membership. for instance, it should be possible to agree in the short term to a better definition of the role of the host of ministerial conferences. equally, there is a need to improve the ability of smaller and non-resident delegations to negotiate effectively both in the geneva process and at ministerial meetings. regarding parliamentary control, the commission is in favour of granting the european parliament more powers in terms of trade policy. it has therefore supported proposals putting the european parliament on an equal footing with the council in terms of trade policy-making in the convention on the future of europe. meanwhile, we are keeping the european parliament fully informed of the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations by regularly taking part in formal and informal meetings of parliament and transmitting policy documents to parliament on a par with the council, as well as consulting parliament on the main trade policy orientations. however, the commission is bound to remain within the treaty framework. the 133 committee that is composed of representatives of the governments of the member states is not a decision-making body, but a consultative body. major policy decisions are taken by democratically elected ministers in the council. as regards transparency vis-à-vis the public in general, the commission pursues a proactive policy of communication, amongst other things by putting relevant information on its website, through its regular dialogue with civil society and in replying to citizens’ requests for access to documents. as far as sustainability impact assessments are concerned, they have already been conducted on the first batch of nama sectors in 2002/2003, i.e. textiles and clothing, pharmaceuticals and non-ferrous metals. the results have been available on the website of manchester university since 2003, with suggestions for adjustment whenever imbalances have been revealed, both domestically or in third countries. a study on forests has also been carried out and the results published in june 2005. a second batch of studies is currently being launched on another set of nama sectors and will include fisheries. the results of this second batch are likely to be published in the first half of next year.
i welcome what the commissioner said about keeping parliament informed. will he specifically commit himself to keeping parliament’s delegation to the negotiations in hong kong fully informed as the wto talks develop, so that it can play an active part in those talks and serve as a conduit for relaying information to the public to ensure full transparency?
member of the commission. that is very important. extensive arrangements have been put in place for the european parliament’s delegation, not only to accompany us in hong kong, but to meet us every day, to be regularly informed. in fact, i have just written to the chairman of the committee on international trade, informing him that there will be daily briefings every morning. it is very important to note that what we are doing in hong kong is not some obscure, abstract process. it is about the daily lives and employment opportunities of billions of people. our job is to justify what we do so as to secure public understanding and support for what we are negotiating at that very important ministerial meeting.
commissioner, could i ask you to focus your attention for a moment on an aspect of substance in the wto talks, namely the perception by many that agriculture is being made the whipping boy and the sacrifice in those talks. cap reform was undoubtedly sold as a means to protect agricultural tariffs from future attack. we were then told agriculture would be safe in the wto. now we find that you have, maybe somewhat precipitately, made a unilateral offer to slice those tariffs by a further massive percentage. one really does wonder whether there is an appreciation of the dire jeopardy in which agriculture in many regions like mine, with which you are familiar, is now being placed if that is the process that is to be followed.
member of the commission. it is all too tempting to say that if you were to persuade those with whom i am negotiating in the wto that we are slashing our agricultural tariffs, then you will have done a better job of persuading them of the weight of our agricultural offer than i have. we have, of course, made a perfectly credible and serious offer concerning agricultural tariffs linked to proposals we have made in respect of domestic subsidies and the elimination of export subsidies. those are proportionate, and are rooted very firmly within the envelope of the existing cap reforms and do not go outside it. they are what we are required to do. we signed up to an original doha mandate, and we then signed up to the framework agreement last summer which invites us to introduce measures that will bring about a substantial improvement in market access in agriculture. that is what i believe we are doing. however, we are not taking risks and we are not jeopardising or threatening the livelihoods of european farmers or farming communities. that is alarmist talk to which i do not subscribe.
member of the commission. i cannot think of anything more difficult or perhaps more painful than negotiating a free trade area between the european union and the united states of america! however, i strongly believe there is scope for attacking some of the non-tariff barriers that stand in the way of growing trade and investment across the atlantic. as the honourable member knows, this is something of great interest to me. i am particularly concerned about the regulatory differences, the lack of convergence and the obstacles that are thrown up because of the differences and frequent incompatibility between the different regulatory systems in europe and the united states. however, both of those regulatory systems are rooted in tradition, past practice, and i suspect that we in europe would have no greater luck in telling the americans how to reform their regulatory systems than the americans would have if they came over here and told us how to run our regulatory systems. nevertheless, through patient dialogue and, i hope in due course, negotiation, we should be able to make some necessary and important improvements that will be of benefit to our respective business communities and, therefore, to jobs and livelihoods on both sides of the atlantic.
member of the commission. under the current generalised system of preferences – gsp – the unilateral scheme of tariff concessions granted to 180 developing countries which still applies until 1 january 2006, imports of fishery products including shrimps and prawns into the eu from thailand’s main competitors – indonesia, malaysia and brazil – are benefiting from reduced duties: from 12% to 4.2%. thailand has been excluded from gsp preferences for fishery products since 1 january 1999 on the basis of its high level of competitiveness in the eu market. the new gsp adopted by the council on 27 june 2005 is based on different criteria and is also more generous to all gsp beneficiaries, including, it was decided, tsunami-affected countries like thailand. thus, from january 2006 onwards, thailand will again benefit from reduced duties on its fishery products under the new gsp. this is consistent with the commission and the council’s overall aim to help tsunami-affected countries. the commission is aware that concerns have been raised about the issue of prawn farming in south-east asia and the effects of removing mangrove forests to create lagoons. the commission therefore supports the sustainable development of coastal-zone management in asia via the transfer of best practices and environmental solutions from europe to asia. the commission’s europeaid cooperation office has so far committed funding for three projects dealing with rehabilitation of mangrove forests in tsunami-affected areas of indonesia, sri lanka and thailand through the asia pro eco post-tsunami programme. this, moreover, should help safeguard shrimp production – an eligible sector under that programme – which is to address the development of environmental management in coastal areas engaging in aquaculture.
member of the commission. the commission is aware of the recent development of imports into the community of footwear originating in china and vietnam. in that context, the commission received earlier this year complaints submitted by the eu footwear industry containing convincing data indicating that the eu footwear industry is suffering from adverse effects caused by dumped prices of imports of footwear into the community. the commission has acted promptly by initiating two anti-dumping investigations. the first concerns imports of footwear with a protective toe-cap originating in china and india. the second concerns imports of footwear with leather uppers from china and vietnam. the aim of those investigations is to establish whether the imports in question are dumped and have had a negative impact on the economic situation of the community footwear industry. the investigations will also have to assess the impact and the possible adverse effect of any measures on the other economic operators in the community. the investigation has made progress. the commission is now analysing the question of market economy treatment of the exporters concerned, the definition of the different categories and models of the products involved, the question of whether there is dumping, the impact of these imports on the community’s shoe-producing industry and the position of traders, retailers and consumers. all that is in progress. it is not a surprise that it is a highly complicated case. given the enormous technical problems, with hundreds of economic operators and a product that consists of thousands of different models, it is too early to give any concrete indication about the possible outcome.
member of the commission. the investigation will be completed within the prescribed time, though i am unable to say precisely when that will be. provisional measures can be taken by the commission between two and nine months after initiation of the investigation. i should stress that this really is a very complex matter indeed; much more so than was originally anticipated when we began the investigation. we have to be very careful that we assess precisely not only what the effect on the community interest is, but what the impact would be if we were to take anti-dumping action on a variety of different producers and economic operators in this sector. some community producers are themselves partly producing outside the community. former fully-fledged community producers have kept their research, design and development activities within the community, but are getting supplies from a variety of sources, like china and vietnam, but also romania, bulgaria and brazil as well as italy, slovakia and other member states. those former producers also provide a considerable amount of jobs through these other economic activities. you can see from this – and i could also identify other issues complicating this matter – that we have to be very careful in our assessment. we do not have a single homogenous set of european producers with one set of clearly identifiable and quantifiable interests. there are a variety of different producer interests and we have to ensure, after our initial judgement on whether the alleged dumping practices have been substantiated, what the impact would be on a variety of different producer interests should any action follow.
i am pleased and relieved to hear the commissioner’s response because i have been lobbied by european retailers who have invested considerable money in asia, have improved health and safety conditions and working conditions in asian countries, and are bringing economic benefits both to asian workers and to european retailers. would the commissioner agree that it would be quite wrong if those companies were caught up in any anti-dumping duties?
member of the commission. i have already responded to some extent in my previous speech, but i think this is a question of such importance that it needs to be answered in more detail. the concept of the accession agreement, by dividing the transitional periods into certain sections, presupposes a serious evaluation of those sections. the implicit aim of these sub-sections is to end the transition period, the sooner the better. i am firmly convinced that the free movement of labour is one of the major drivers of the european union's economic upswing, including job creation. so this is a general matter. on the other hand, i am fully aware that this is a very sensitive issue and i stress again that the aim will be to translate a report that will be considered authoritative, i.e. that it will not be subject to any methodological interference. the individual states will of course decide under the treaty, with the ability to decide on the facts as they see fit. it is not the commission's intention to dismantle and destroy any labour market, but the intention of the accession treaties is to create a common market, a common free movement of labour, which is one of the four fundamental values which apply in the european union and on which the concept of european integration is based. in this respect, i believe it is right to proceed with reasonable speed, with appropriate courage, after considering all the relevant data. of course, it is the responsibility of governments to decide how to do this.
commissioner, thank you for restating your commitment to the principle of the free movement of workers. i very much agree. however, i should like to ask you whether you plan to research or analyse, from the commission point of view, the decision by the united kingdom and other countries to open up their labour markets to free movement of labour immediately, as opposed to those countries which impose restrictions. is this something that you plan to do and could you tell us if it is a feasible idea?
mr president, commissioner rehn is right that a carefully managed enlargement process is one of the eu’s most powerful and successful policy tools. we have to try hard to enthuse our citizens. to be a bit frivolous, perhaps if we could feature gorgeous young men like the one that figures in the polish plumber ads, we might find marketing enlargement easier, but i must not be sexist. we must also offer citizens of aspirant countries some tangible reward for the tough effort that they have to make towards eu membership, but the eu visa regime in the western balkans is an overwhelming barrier to communication through travel. it stifles the very sectors of society that the eu should be doing its best to encourage. in may of this year, commissioner rehn told a conference that he was optimistic about the prospects for progress on easing the visa burden. i hope that date is coming closer. i realise that full visa liberalisation is some considerable way down the line, but visa facilitation for certain groups, similar to that being discussed or negotiated with russia, ukraine and china, would surely go a long way towards demonstrating the eu’s commitment to future enlargement. in the short term it would boost the morale, the prospects and the horizons of those in the western balkans. the fact that 70% of university students in serbia have never left that country must feed into the introverted political culture there. eu considerations of internal security are important, but they must not be so overwhelming as to compromise wider regional security. let us not make the criminal minority hold the rest to ransom.
mr president, it is fitting, at this time of reflection on what the european union actually stands for, that we should be discussing tonight this clear demonstration of eu added value, where the union together is greater than the sum of its parts. i do not believe that the eu brings automatic added value in all its spheres of competence, but it clearly does in this instance. air travel forms such a large part of our interconnected europe and our interconnected world that it is amazing, in many ways, that we have not passed proposals such as this before now. the member states acting alone have not achieved a sufficient degree of consumer protection. the union, acting now, will give its citizens the consumer protection they deserve. this eu action is both proportionate and appropriate. if an airline has been blacklisted in one eu state, people want to know about it, so i welcome proposals for a common eu framework. i myself have been booked on flights where i have only discovered the identity of the carrier at check-in, so i welcome proposals for greater consumer information and awareness. i wish personally to congratulate the rapporteur for negotiating this complex issue. i hope that the house and our colleagues, when they arrive tomorrow, will unite around her.
mr president, i believe that this is a good agreement. it achieves most of what the committee wanted. it is also a good-news story, as mr twigg and mr smith said. it shows the strength of the eu acting together, acting to protect the consumer and, as has been emphasised by several people, acting with speed. sometimes, however, there will still be differences between member states. airlines use different aircraft and different crews to fly to particular parts of the world. these variations will mean that standards vary. indeed, opinion as to safety itself can vary, but this report sets benchmark standards. i hope and believe that this is not the end of the matter. i expect that some countries will want to go further and set higher standards and that this will push standards even higher to protect consumers. more and more people are flying. i am told that some 30 million people in the uk – half the population – fly at least once a year. with the increasing use of the internet, they may not be aware of the carrier that they are allocated. they may book with company a and find that it is actually company b operating the flight. if company b is blacklisted for safety reasons, then, as mr jarzembowski said earlier on, they will have the possibility of not flying. no one at all, i suggest, will board a plane if it has been blacklisted. they will have the option and they will not take the option of getting on a plane that has been blacklisted. that will push up standards; it will improve things for consumers; it is a good-news story. i congratulate the rapporteur. we should be talking about it and explaining it, but not at eleven o’clock at night!
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, let me take this opportunity to warmly thank mrs harms for the excellent reports she drafted on the two items under discussion tonight. i would also like to indicate my appreciation for the quality of the debates which have taken place in the committee on industry, research and energy. i would like to put the commission’s proposals, and to some extent today’s discussion, into a broader context. we are probably at the beginning of a long-lasting period of high oil and gas prices on the international markets, with a sharply growing demand worldwide. with regard to this new situation we have to react with determination and ambition. we already discussed the five-point-plan in earlier discussions with you. the immediate option for the eu is to act on the demand side, since the greatest room for manoeuvre in the european union lies there. looking at the supply of energy, i want to stress that the choice of energy supply is up to each member state. it is their individual decision as to which energy mix they prefer, of course within the framework set by the european union, such as commitments for reduction of co2 emissions, or promotion of renewable energy. nuclear energy today produces one third of electricity in the european union. the role of nuclear energy is closely linked to a solid strategy dealing with security of nuclear material and non-proliferation, radiation protection, nuclear safety, reliable disposal of nuclear waste and the safe decommissioning of nuclear installations. discussions tonight will address in particular not nuclear plants, but the decommissioning of nuclear installations, be it in relation to the end of their lifetime, or be it for power plants in new member states, which could not be upgraded at affordable costs. financing of decommissioning is a complex issue, where the existence of various approaches in the member states has been noted. the commission has issued its report on decommissioning, which is considered today following the request of the european parliament. it has recognised therein that there was an increased need for transparency and harmonisation in the management of the financial resources needed. therefore, the commission intends to adopt recommendations on funding schemes earmarked for decommissioning. the cooperation established in the course of 2005 with member states and via the fruitful debates launched with the european parliament on the issues related to the decommissioning schemes will allow significant progress to be made in this important area. on the more specific question related to the decommissioning of bohunice, the accession protocol provides the framework for the early closure of bohunice. the assistance to be granted to ensure the early closure of the two reactors at the bohunice nuclear power plant is an expression of the community’s solidarity with the slovak republic, underlining that the commission and the member states recognise the significant challenges posed by such an early closure. the commission’s responsibility is to monitor the closure commitments, and to deliver the support through the mechanisms available to it. this we have done for the 2004 and 2005 annual support commitments, and i do not foresee any difficulty with the 2006 contribution. the protocol associated with the accession treaty acknowledges that the decommissioning will have to continue for several years and it would cause a significant financial burden for slovakia. therefore, the decision on eu assistance after 2006 will take this situation into account. against that background, and in order to present its proposals for the next financial perspective, the commission prepared the draft regulation on which you are now consulted. we felt that there was a need to continue providing support since the commission recognises that decommissioning is a process. the level of support in our proposal is based on a continuation of the support already agreed during the accession negotiation in protocol no 9. the amount of eur 237 million is part of the financial perspectives currently under negotiation. therefore the commission reserves its position on any amendment related to funding, which is part of the financial perspectives. i hope these few words concerning the two reports under discussion helped to set the scene and explained in which spirit and with which aims the commission’s proposals were established and adopted.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on the particular issue of units 1 and 2 of the bohunice v1 nuclear power plant, the rapporteurs in the slovak government have both come forward with an estimate of the total cost of decommissioning for the two units as likely to be eur 750 million. against this, the commission’s proposal for an appropriation of eur 237 million for the period 2007 to 2013 may seem modest, but there are two very strong arguments in favour of keeping to the commission’s figure of eur 237 million. firstly, although unit 1 is due to be shut down in 2006, major structural decommissioning will not begin until unit 2 is shut down in 2008. eur 237 million is a substantial sum of money for the first five years of a decommissioning period which is expected to last for 30 years. secondly, to increase the amount is to make a mockery of the budget which parliament has already voted. we know that politically we are entering into a very sensitive period on the financial perspectives and it does not help if parliament votes one thing one minute and another thing the next. we have to respect the vote on the budget. nor should we be trying to force anyone’s hand on the budget beyond 2013. the debate on any further money for bohunice should take place in the context of the next round of budget discussions and in the light of whatever has happened on decommissioning up to that point. it is understandable, however, that the slovak authorities want to know where they are with the funding over this 2006-2013 financial perspective, so the total sum of eur 237 million needs to be fixed for that period without further review, although the yearly appropriation may vary. on the wider issue of decommissioning, the key challenge is to ensure that, on the one hand, enough money is available to decommission nuclear plants safely and, on the other hand, that the financing of decommissioning does not become state aid by the back door. paragraph 5 of the report is important in this respect. it is the nuclear industry – not governments – that needs to make provision in advance for decommissioning and ensure that the full cost is included in the balance sheet from the start. too many times in the past the nuclear industry has got its sums wrong and then come begging for financial assistance. that is unacceptable because the failure of the nuclear industry to make proper provision for the cost of decommissioning distorts competition. if back-end costs are not calculated properly, then nuclear-generated electricity appears to be much cheaper than it really is. i hope that the commission will ensure that such anti-competitive practices are not allowed to occur in future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when saddam hussein ran iraq it was well described as a mass grave below ground and a torture chamber above. yet after two years and eight months of war, the deaths of countless iraqis and over 2 000 coalition troops, it is clear that life in iraq is little better than before. baghdad was statistically the world’s worst place to live even before the security situation deteriorated. how much worse now that civilian casualties run at more than 60 a day and insurgent attacks have almost trebled in 18 months. it is difficult to know whether the persistent presence of coalition troops under these conditions is a help or a hindrance in the restoration of normality. i fear i detect an air of complacency in the council’s statement today and surprising optimism from the commission. there have been notable successes on the road to democracy. iraqis now have their own constitution; they have their own security forces, and in december they will have a democratically elected government. there are even signs that sunni arabs are moving into politics and preparing to contest the election, such as the formation last week of the national public democratic movement in the province of anbar. nonetheless, europeans have a number of serious concerns. there are signs of widening instability in the region. evidence of gross human rights violations, including torture and the systematic use of arbitrary arrest, has badly damaged the coalition’s standing. that has helped recruit many to the insurgents’ cause. i have three specific concerns. first, the pentagon’s acknowledgement a few hours ago that the us used phosphorous incendiary devices in fallujah. the european union must demand a un inquiry into the use of these banned weapons. second, yesterday’s revelation in sections of the media that of the more than 35 000 iraqi civilians detained by the coalition, only 5% have ever been brought to trial and many have been denied legal counsel. what kind of example are we setting? third, the european union member states need a clear exit strategy. if we want to stop violent insurgents continuing to gain at the expense of moderate iraqis, what is needed – and what the blair-bush alliance has always lacked – is a clear end-game. europeans disagreed on the rationale for going into iraq. we must not be divided on the conditions for leaving. we must talk to the arab league, the iraqi authorities and other middle eastern governments with a view to establishing the terms and timing of our departure that will leave iraq a more stable and secure place. president talabani has already made it clear that the iraqi people are, and i quote, ‘looking forward to the day when we can say goodbye to the forces of the coalition’. europe must work towards that goal.
mr president, sadly the anti-americanism of some in europe is so great that i sense that some even take a perverse satisfaction from the turmoil prevailing in iraq. these same people, of course, are those who would have been quite content to allow saddam’s tyranny to continue undisturbed. of course it was wrong of blair and bush to rely on and peddle false information to justify the invasion of iraq, but the removal of saddam was right and necessary. the situation as it is must now be faced. the core issue is to ensure the triumph of order over terror so that democratic stability may indeed be established. a heavy price is being paid and i would wish to acknowledge the sacrifice of the american, british and other troops seeking to bring order to this strife-torn land. i regret that in their contributions neither the council nor the commission saw fit to make an acknowledgement of that sacrifice. it must be said that it is typical of its grandstanding that the eu now wants to pontificate on the future of iraq. it has little that is credible to contribute, for, when it mattered, the eu as an organisation and most eu member states left the heavy lifting to others.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i should like to thank the commission and council for their statements. i have to say though that i do not share mrs beckett’s upbeat assessment of how the european union is doing, despite the british government’s pledge to make climate change a priority for its presidency. progress on the ground has been very disappointing. hearing the g8 communiqué on climate change being called ambitious stretches the english language almost to breaking point. if the british presidency is genuinely going to show international leadership on this subject, then it has to get its own house in order first. earlier this year, we commissioned a report from the association for the conservation of energy to assess how well this government has been implementing existing european laws on reducing fossil-fuel use. their findings made clear that this is a government which has delayed implementation of the directive on the energy performance of buildings, demanded an increase in the uk’s level of co2 emissions permitted under the eu emissions trading scheme, failed to set binding targets for energy-demand reduction under the energy services directive, and failed to promote small-scale combined heat and power plants in line with the cogeneration directive. this is why the council should take particular notice of the european parliament’s report on climate change, which has been expertly drafted by anders wijkman. there they will find a genuinely bold and ambitious call to action. in particular, the report demands strong emission reductions at home, starting with 20% to 30% domestic reductions in the eu by 2020, increasing to between 60% and 80% by 2050. it calls for the goal to make europe the most energy-efficient economy in the world by setting targets for annual reduction in energy of the order of 2.5% to 3% and for a robust strategy for montreal. and, in our amendment, the greens are calling on the eu to ensure a formal mandate and timetable for negotiating future climate commitments with a time limit for achieving agreement at the end of 2008. i want to end with two quick questions for the council. first, what is its view on contraction and convergence as a framework for future action? second, alongside the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme, will the council propose instruments in parallel to tackle the full climate impact of aviation since, as we know, the emissions trading scheme will not cover emissions that are not co2 related?
mr president, i heartily endorse the comments of my group colleague, dr lucas, on the uk government’s fairly patchy record on seriously tackling climate change. however, if the council is looking for some ambition, then it could do worse than to carefully examine and adopt mr wijkman’s report. the fact is that we need a step change in the way we debate climate change, particularly among the public. we must start with our own actions, because those are the actions we can control best. we need to realise that if we embrace the challenge, we can profit by our own example. renewable energy is the key plank of the solution. my own country, scotland, could lead the world in clean, green renewable energy. we have waves, a long coastline, windswept hills, biomass and geothermal power, and the raw material for hydroelectric power falls from the sky on a regular basis, and yet we are not nearly investing sufficiently in renewable technologies in scotland or in europe. in the case of scotland, this is because the united kingdom controls energy policy and remains wedded to a nuclear agenda, which i believe offers no long-term solution. we in this house can play our part in this step change on renewable energy and the debate on climate change, and we must unite around mr wijkman’s report. the commission can play its part by prioritising renewable energy in the fp7 programmes.
(the speaker spoke irish) mr wijkman’s report makes it clear that living up to the kyoto requirements is the first priority of the eu. whilst kyoto is only a small step in the fight against climate change, we must throw our support behind it and urge those who have not signed up to do so immediately. this morning i was glad to hear the commission and the council stress the importance of the next phase, because the real challenge is to set ambitious targets for the post-2012 period and to get all the major world actors involved. i also want to support the amendments made by my colleagues in the gue/ngl group, particularly the assertion that the promotion of an unbridled free market has led to excess consumption, which in turn leads to increased emissions of greenhouse gases. (the speaker spoke irish)
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 132 about commission question time last night. last night we had 90 minutes of questions but only 11 questions were answered, mainly because all the commissioners gave long, rambling replies. that was started by commissioner mandelson, who then overran, so that in the end there was only the opportunity for commissioner špidla to answer two questions. when i raised this before, president borrell wrote a letter to the commission asking commissioners to be crisper in their answers. nothing so far has happened. i should like to ask you to send a further letter, with much more ferocity, saying that what we look for as members are short answers, not long rambling speeches. (applause)
in writing. this is a very timely proposal initially in reaction to concerns raised after the sharm-el-sheikh air accident (which killed 148 people) and after the spate of air disasters in august this year. many of the passengers who died at sharm-el-sheikh did not know they were going to be flying an egyptian airline called flash air nor that this carrier had temporarily, in 2002, been subject to restrictions by switzerland because of safety concerns. passengers have a right to be informed of the airline operating their flight regardless of where in the community the service starts. air travellers should be well informed prior to travel about their prospective flight, particularly if the actual carrier is not the one originally indicated at the time of reservation. this proposal takes us in that direction.
in writing. the purpose of the proposed regulation is to provide finances for the decommissioning of the bohunice vi nuclear power plant in slovakia. slovakia has committed to the closure of units 1 and 2 of the plant by 31 december 2006 and 31 december 2008 respectively. the decommissioning process of the plant is an expensive one as it will last beyond 2006 and after the next financial perspective 2007-2013. in light of this, the eu has agreed to extend pre-accession aid by providing financial support for decommissioning up until 2006. subsequently, an amendment was adopted to to raise the budget from euro 237 million to euro 400 million. despite being largely in favour of raising the budget, i believe the new amount of eur 400 million proposed by the amendment to be excessive and i welcome the alternative of seeking non-eu funding in order to raise the amount of money neccessary for decommissioning to take place.
in writing. i was pleased that this joint motion for resolution gained a sufficiently broad support across the chamber as this is a particularly important policy area. my own country, scotland, as a northern european country should be playing a more active role in this policy, though sadly even with our own scottish parliament we have yet to make our voice heard in this topic, so far.
in writing. although i support this report, there needs to be parity when such a switchover takes place. citizens need to be informed and prepared.
in writing. this report is a step in the right direction towards improving financial and technical aspects of decommissioning nuclear power plants. as we know from experience at dounreay in scotland, there is considerable improvement required in the handling of this dangerous, but necessary, process. safety must be the number one priority, and the unsatisfactory state of preparations for decommissioning in most eu member states justifies the view that no new nuclear power plans should be built.
in writing. i voted for this report. decommissioning is an important issues as there are some 50-60 nuclear power plants in the eu that will be decommissioned by 2025. it goes without saying that nuclear power plants need to be shut down safely to protect people and the environment. a lack of finance for this process could cause delay and potential safety risks. all nuclear undertakings should have sufficient funds for decommissioning. the commission is anxious to come up with a common framework, and in the longer term, to harmonise the methods by which decommissioning is financed in the eu. this report makes a contribution to that goal.
in writing. i was pleased to back my group colleagues in supporting this important report as it underlines concerns about the long term viability of the nuclear industry when it cmoes to decommissioning. with so many alternative technologies available, i believe that we must invest in renewables, which will leave no ecological legacy.
in writing. i welcomed the report outlining the need to fight the climate change battle. once a certain level of green-house gas concentration has passed in the atmosphere, the whole system will undergo drastic changes. disasters such as annual material damages due to extreme weather conditions resulting in millions of people left homeless will occur. developing countries are likely to be the ones who suffer the most. the eu has reduced its emissions by 3% below the 1990 level but more has to be done to reach the 8% target agreed in the kyoto protocol. although i agree that the eu needs to reduce its emissions to reach the target agreed in the kyoto agreement, i find the report to be extremely optimistic considering the inclusion of more policy areas and the time limit and would like to see a greater sense of urgency.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the hampton court meeting was to be the ‘social model’ summit. then mr blair socialised – the same mr blair who strode into brussels in july promising root and branch reform, but then pruned it down to the most invisible square root of a branch of any eu presidency in memory. the comments after hampton court were from those amazed that nothing happened. in fact it should be labelled the hampton court ‘amaze’. the ard tv station in germany said that, after four months, nothing happened – absolutely nothing. the polish media called it one of the most bizarre eu summits. in italy, la repubblica just called it ‘embarrassed’ and ‘embarrassing’. mr blair claimed it debated the things the public wanted it to debate, but the public does not want european policies for universities when the eu has no competence in education. nor does it want things like nine separate missions around the world as part of an eu defence policy. if hampton court proved anything, it was that vacuums are dangerous when filled with hot air from politicians. i propose that a blue metal plaque be placed on the wall at hampton court saying: ‘on this spot on 27 october 2005 nothing happened’ or, as they say in yorkshire: ‘eee, you must be jokin’’.
mr president, from the spin of today one would think that much had been achieved at hampton court, but as we have already heard, the verdict of the informed eu press was almost universally negative. one press agency reported that many papers could not recall a more useless and shallow example of posturing with no outcome. one paper talked of a bizarre show of relaxed leaders who dodged the most crucial issues facing europe. another called it a summit of impasse with a facade of forced smiles. the financial times said in an article that the leaders attempted to answer the question of what impact globalisation would have on the european economy and concluded that we needed more research and development and, of course, more money. in other words, they failed to answer the question. the eu, the financial times said, is the wrong institutional platform from which to deal with globalisation. it has become too large and divided. the appropriate political levels are national governments and the eurozone. i suggest that the article in the financial times comes close to the truth. if individual member states were to expend the same effort and energy addressing the issue of how, as nations, to compete in a global market as they did in preparing showcase summits, then i suspect we might all see much more product. my biggest fear arising from the failure of the hampton court summit and a lacklustre british presidency is that it will make my government over-eager to secure a face-saving deal on the budget in december and that, as a result, mr blair will concede far too much on the british rebate, just so it can be said that something was achieved by the british presidency – that is to say something other than ensuring eu bankruptcy by opening the door to turkish accession.
mr president, i am very sorry but i am afraid i have to be a little bit churlish as well. the summit at hampton court was what i warned it would be: something of a talking shop – or even a talking palace. and i think that mr straw’s speech was as churchill once said ‘a pudding without a theme’. first the prime minister downgraded the hampton court meeting to one day. he then constructed an agenda that was thin on specifics and avoided all the major and pressing issues facing the eu and finally, amazingly, he decided there would be no communiqué at the end. these are hardly the hallmarks of a presidency and prime minister leading the agenda and shaping our future. i am frankly surprised the presidency has anything at all to report to us from the summit. at least, however, this parliament is receiving a report, something which the prime minister failed to give the british house of commons in the aftermath of the event. the informal council was a wasted opportunity. europe needs direction on economic reform. instead, the presidency produced a couple of discussion papers written by academics and even these were not discussed. europe needs direction on reforming the so-called social model. again all we had were a few worthy but irrelevant discussion papers. europe needs direction on being more flexible and responsive. however, the fundamental issue of what to do following the rejection of the constitution was not even on the table for discussion. europe also needs direction on its future financing. there are serious issues here, not least the question of the rebate. but the presidency continues to avoid the matter and the drift continues. i agree with mr barroso that the presidency must make efforts to reach an outcome at the december council. we will be looking carefully to see precisely what is contained there and whether mr blair ditches his previous commitments, in protecting the british rebate. transparency and openness is another issue for the presidency. recently i called for meetings of the council to be held in public when it is operating in a legislative capacity. mr blair says he wants progress on this. i challenge the presidency to implement such a procedure before its term of office ends and i look forward to the council’s answer in this matter at question time following this debate. what about the court of auditors’ report on the eu accounts? for the eleventh year in succession, the court has been unable to give a statement of assurance on the accounts. this really must be sorted out by the presidency. drift and indecision have been a fundamental characteristic of the british presidency. indeed, the prime minister of slovakia speaking on it said ‘silence reigns, we do not have information’. i must agree with that analysis and, whilst enjoying mr straw’s speech today, i cannot see that it takes us anywhere useful at all. hampton court provided no evidence that the presidency and particularly that the prime minister had any strategy. he gave every appearance of drifting from summit to summit unable or unwilling to provide the kind of leadership we british conservatives called for in june. let us hope that the last chance saloon at the forthcoming brussels summit will demonstrate that my disappointment with the british presidency is actually misplaced.
mr president, recently a terrorist suspect wanted by the british government was arrested and extradited from rome in a matter of weeks. this was a direct result of the european arrest warrant; previously it could have taken years. this is just one example of the positive benefits the european union brings to its citizens. each citizen has benefited from the single market by some eur 6 000 a head in increased output. it is possible, if you wish, to swim in the sea off blackpool in my region because of european union laws that have improved the environment. those are positive benefits for our citizens. we need to do more to shout those positive benefits. i welcome the papers that were presented at hampton court, because they deal with how the european union can bring added value to our citizens, particularly in the area of the energy markets where we have a crisis waiting to happen. however, we have to ensure that there is follow-up on these matters. one of the difficulties with the lisbon agenda in particular is that member states themselves promise to deliver but do not. i would hope that out of the hampton court discussions came a clarification of the role of member states and the important role of the european commission in ensuring that member states carry out that which they have already agreed. if that were to happen, the european union could move much further forward without necessarily having any of the grand plans that some people have outlined in this debate. let us stick to delivering what we agreed to deliver. that will be the key success of the european union. i congratulate the president-in-office for the commitment made by this presidency to parliament. we are delighted at the extent to which ministers have engaged parliament and particularly the extent to which the british home secretary has ensured that parliament is involved in taking forward that security agenda. that is one of the most important dimensions of where the european union is going in future to protect the interests of its citizens. (applause)
mr president, normally i would complain that one minute is not enough to sum up a presidency in its latter stages, but not in this instance. uk presidency: no progress. it is interesting that mr straw commented on the sparse attendance here and made an extremely limp attempt to be humorous about it. the fact is that most of my colleagues had better things to do than to listen to him give the same speech today that tony blair gave at the start of the presidency and then repeated with minor variations just a couple of weeks ago. i had hoped, had mr straw still been here, to ask him the same question that mr alexander failed to answer when i put it to him directly a couple of weeks ago, but i will ask it again. will the uk presidency give an assurance that the interests of scotland’s fishing communities will not be traded away in the interests of something more important to whitehall in the mess of horse-trading it has stored up for itself for the december council, and for the subsequent fisheries council, which will be almost the last act of the presidency?
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order, pursuant to rule 65 (c), if i remember correctly. we have just heard from the british foreign secretary. i put the following question to the conference of presidents through your presidency. a colleague has just spoken for a minute. the british minister for european affairs is with us. how can the european parliament be limited to one minute to react? perhaps you could discuss this with your colleagues in the conference of presidents, to decide on the approach to be taken in the future?
mr president, i would be fascinated to know at what stage the british presidency realised that to have adopted as its logo a flight of birds heading towards europe was a mistake! if the british presidency does not secure a deal on the future budget perspectives, it will not be regarded as a success. i agree that movement has to be made on the issue of agriculture. while the british presidency has to recognise that, at some point, it is going to have to compromise, it is also important for other member states to realise that they must give too. at some point the french – above all, it seems – must give something to enable those seeking a deal to be able to point to future changes and reviews of the agricultural policy, not just to help the uk out of a difficult situation but to help the world secure an agreement on the doha development round.
mr president, mr straw proudly told us that we have had 48 ministerial speeches during the british presidency but i have to say that we have very little to show for any of them. i am amazed that with just a month to go before it comes to an end, the uk presidency is still talking about agendas, strategies and timetables. i speak for those many people of east anglia who want to see action, security, prosperity and a real change of direction in the eu, rather than empty promises. citizens of many countries have woken up to what has been happening in their name. they seriously question the nature and direction of the eu project. people want more local control over their own lives, but our governments continue to cede powers to regions and to brussels. i ask you: what sort of relationship with what sort of europe is right for our people and our nations in this first half of the 21st century? that vital question is never asked by our government or by the eu institutions. it should perhaps have been the central question at hampton court. the fact is that at hampton court there was no fundamental reappraisal of the european union. it just carries on regardless. there is no end to unhelpful legislation. mr straw mentioned the working time directive and the temporary workers directive. there are dozens more such irrelevant and interfering items of eu legislation on the stocks. what is being done about all this? the budget was mentioned. pretty fundamental, but still unresolved. in comparison with a similar sized economy such as france, the united kingdom already contributes disproportionately to the eu budget and that is after margaret thatcher’s rebate. apparently you want us to pay more. meanwhile our nations and societies are being dangerously fractured as a consequence of catastrophic asylum and immigration policies. instead of creating and sustaining world class centres of academic excellence, we are destroying them through lack of funding and misconceived class-driven doctrines. our armed forces are desperately over-stretched and lack key items of equipment. at the same time gallant officers and soldiers are hung out to dry by a government-inspired system that cares little for their wellbeing but everything for its own political agenda… (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, iran is developing a nuclear programme that it does not need since it is sitting on a sea of oil. it is clearly intended to provide the country with nuclear weapons. the president of iran thinks that israel should be wiped off the map. the ability of the west to deal with the threat posed by iran has been severely restricted by the war in iraq, a war britain entered into because of the lies and deceit of our prime minister, mr blair. we all hope that the situation in iran can be resolved peacefully, and this is certainly one of those cases where the west needs both to speak softly and to carry a big stick. unfortunately britain’s big stick – its armed forces – is being merged into the euphemistically named european defence identity, i.e. a european army. if accomplished, this will prevent britain from being able to embark on any independent military actions in the future. but once again, the eu assumes the attributes of a political state in order to address this problem and its pretensions are fully supported by a minister of her majesty’s government. meanwhile, this parliament continually calls on both france and britain to decommission their independent nuclear deterrents. if they did so there would not be the big stick that might ultimately be needed in any negotiations with iran.
president-in-office of the council. i would simply reiterate the caution that i emphasised earlier as to the legitimate remit of the council in these matters. there is, as i said, provision for the commission to take action in particular circumstances, and mr muscat is right to recognise that free movement of services is one element of the original treaty of rome. however, to counterbalance the rather negative construction that he has placed on the present position in relation to air fares in one particular member state, it is important to recognise that some of the measures taken at european union level in recent years have resulted in very dramatic drops in the price of tickets that are being charged to european union citizens to travel elsewhere within the european union. only this morning i had the opportunity to travel to budapest where i was hearing directly about the seventeen daily flights now available between a number of regional airports in the united kingdom and hungary. that would have been inconceivable only a matter of years ago, and the european union deserves credit in recognising the extent to which it has contributed towards the new opportunities that are afforded to many citizens to travel, which have now been enjoyed by many citizens in recent months and years.
last month i tabled a question for this session of question time to the council on a related subject, that of eu kerosene tax. in response to the question as to what the council’s position on eu kerosene tax was, i was told that because it had not received a proposal from the commission, the council could not take position. i have here documentary evidence that the commission has made proposals to the council. the issue was last discussed in the council by the luxembourg presidency, prior to the british presidency, which british ministers would presumably have attended. can the council presidency please tell me whether this is a case of incompetence, or is there a secret agenda to introduce a kerosene tax?
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member there is no secret agenda as far as i am concerned. on the other hand, if he would like to share with me the information he has waved before this house today i shall certainly look into the matter that he has addressed and i will make sure that a reply is forthcoming to him.
president-in-office of the council. the council is not in a position to give information on the state of individual member states’ decision-making concerning the signature of the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings. the convention has to date been signed by five member states of the european union: austria, cyprus, poland, portugal and sweden. no member states have ratified the convention. it is noted that part of the convention is under ec competence and will therefore need to be signed and ratified by the ec. the council is currently considering an action plan on trafficking in human beings to develop a comprehensive and strategic european union approach on this issue. the action plan will build on the conference held on 19 and 20 october, ‘tackling human trafficking: policy and best practice in europe’, organised by the united kingdom presidency, the commission and sweden.
that is rather inadequate. the commission’s recent communication said that victim protection is the top priority, but member states tend to lump trafficking together with illegal immigration and prefer to make victim protection conditional on being a witness. that is why they dislike the convention. the advice that i and colleagues received from the police is that victims will cooperate with police voluntarily once they and their families are safe. police are dismayed that the chances of a successful prosecution of traffickers are being undermined by a policy of deporting victims as illegal immigrants or making assistance conditional. mr blair said recently that you need powerful reasons to turn round and say ‘no’ to the police. why are 17 eu prime ministers – and you are now telling me it is actually 20 prime ministers, including tony blair – saying ‘no’ to the police by refusing to sign up to this convention?
president-in-office of the council. i would first like to repeat to the honourable member the point that i made at the beginning that it is not for me, representing the presidency in the course of today and in the course of this debate, to speak in terms of the decision-making of those 20 prime ministers that she identifies. i would however say that it rather ill befits her to suggest that there is a conflation between illegal immigration and human trafficking when the conference that i described on this important issue of human trafficking was entitled ‘tackling human trafficking: policy and best practice in europe’. this was a matter which, as i said, was taken forward by the british presidency and therefore the allegation that she seems to be levelling that there is somehow a profound and perpetual confusion between illegal immigration and human trafficking seems, not least on the basis of the title of the conference, to be refuted by the evidence.
following on from that, i think the reason my colleague said what she did was because the uk presidency seems to view this as a security and stability issue rather than a human rights issue. further to what the president-in-office has said, could he try to make sure that the council discussions on the eu action plan on trafficking is in the public domain, because we do not have any information about it at present. could he also give reassurances that at least the minimum standards that are written into the eu convention against trafficking are put into that eu action plan?
president-in-office of the council. let me assure the honourable lady that there is widespread support for the aims of the convention on action against human trafficking and that european union member states want to see concerted action to tackle at source what is undoubtedly an abhorrent trade, in order to protect and support the victims of which she has spoken and bring those responsible to justice. i can assure the honourable lady that the united kingdom, as presidency of the european union, has prioritised work on combating human trafficking, and the eu action plan for best practices, standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings has been the focus of our efforts. we have held not one but two conferences on the subject. that action plan will, i can assure her, address the whole cycle of human trafficking and specifically recognises the importance of a human rights and a victim-centred approach. so, i hope that, on the basis of the answer that i have been able to offer, some of her concerns over the approach that the british presidency has taken on this important issue transpire to be misplaced.
president-in-office of the council. the proposed deletion of the indicative amounts for tobacco products and alcohol constitutes only one of the elements of the relevant commission proposal amending the arrangements for products subject to excise duty. indicative amounts are used as an important indicator of whether the quantity of excise goods carried across borders is for commercial reasons or for private consumption by non-taxable persons. they are not in themselves an obstacle to the rights of cross-border shoppers. the commission proposal has been discussed on several occasions in the relevant bodies since it was transmitted to the council, with no indication that member states would agree to abolish the minimum indicative levels. the presidency therefore does not believe that further discussion of this issue would be productive.
would the president-in-office not agree with me that a single market in the european union, in which goods, people, services and capital can move as freely across european borders as they do within member states, is a vital policy objective? would he agree with me that we should prefer tax competition between member states to harmonisation of tax rates across the eu? if he so agrees, can he see any justification for any limits or guidelines as to how much in the way of excisable products our citizens can take with them across our borders?
president-in-office of the council. it is refreshing to hear a point of view being put forward in this chamber that differs so much from some of the allegations normally levelled against the british and the british presidency. the free movement of goods and services is, of course, reflected in the original treaties of the european union, and one of the focuses of our work in the course of our presidency has been the completion of the single market. we have sought to take forward, and continue to seek to take forward, work in relation to services. indeed, countries who at times in the past have questioned our pro-european credentials have been some of those most critical of our efforts to continue to advance discussions in relation to the issue of services. on the specific issue that the speaker raised in relation to cross-border shopping, let me simply say that the presidency fully supports the rights of cross-border shoppers. at the same time, though, we are committed to tackling those who abuse freedoms that would otherwise be enjoyed by citizens right across the european union. we are determined to tackle abuses of the freedoms within the single market by those who engage in illegal activities such as smuggling. guide levels are therefore essential to assist customs authorities to distinguish between genuine cross-border shoppers and smugglers. on the more general point with which he concluded his remarks, i think the rather robust case which was put by our foreign secretary in terms of the limits of harmonisation within the european union earlier this afternoon is an eloquent testimony as to the british government’s view on the appropriate balance between harmonisation and competition within the european union.
would the president-in-office agree that guidelines are precisely that – guidelines – and that if individuals can prove that what they are importing is for their own use then, even if they exceed the guidelines, they would not be outwith the law? also, would he agree that the guidelines exist to ensure that the single market functions in this area and that, if we did not have the guidelines, the very objective that mr purvis wants might be undermined, because the guidelines are there to stop the abuses that the president-in-office referred to?
i must say that i find the lack of any legal justification in terms of european community law and the european convention on human rights somewhat distressing. there is little to reassure me about the welfare of my constituents. the president-in-office will be aware that, since february 2005, non-eu/eea nationals have to obtain home office permission to get married in the united kingdom. its effect is that we are talking about a limited number of couples. would the president-in-office be prepared at least to convey to his home office colleagues my request that an amnesty be granted to such couples, at least where it is recognised that there is a genuine and subsisting relationship, and that the requirement to travel to the country of origin in order to apply for spousal residence be waived?
i note that in relation to the question on alcohol guidelines the minister commented on uk practice, so i am sure he is prepared to do so on this subject: does this practice in the uk not jar with eu free movement rules in the developing concept of european citizenship? if one of my constituents who has been caught by the new rule and whose marriage is accepted by the government moves to france, she would have the right to have her husband with her. so, the bizarre effect is that couples get greater protection of their right to family life in an eu country other than their own. there is a strong european dimension to this, so i believe it is apt to ask the uk minister to answer as presidency.
president-in-office of the council. the supplementary question ranges more widely than simply the specific case and the concerns regarding censorship of the internet and questions as to whether there is an effective response to the european union’s pleas and discussions with china in relation to human rights. there is a fundamental choice to be made as to whether isolating any one country with which we have disagreements on standards of human rights is the right way forward. the european union has taken a view historically that to have a structured dialogue and to have engagement is the best means of effecting the kind of change i am sure all members of this parliament would wish to see. the dialogue has, for example, encouraged china to become more involved in international human rights mechanisms, including the ratification in march 2001 of the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights. china received the european union’s special representative on education in 2003, the un working group on arbitrary detention in 2004 and we very much hope that china will receive the un special rapporteur on torture this year. i can assure the honourable member that the dialogue is both very open and very frank and, as i sought to reflect in my initial answer to his question, this is a dialogue that takes place not simply at official level but at the very highest levels of the contact that exists between the european union and china.
president-in-office of the council. the council shares the concerns expressed by the honourable member regarding the fact that for the past 11 years the european court of auditors has been unable to give, in its annual reports, a statement indicating that there was a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of most of the underlying transactions. however, for the 2004 accounts the court was able to give assurance on the legality and regularity of underlying transactions for pre-accession assistance as well as on own-resources and administration. for the first time, the court has been able to conclude that the integrated administration and control system – iacs – has reduced the risk of error for most agricultural expenditure to an acceptable level. i can assure the house that the council has consistently attached great importance to this issue and has regularly expressed its concern about the level of errors in transactions underlying payments and weaknesses in the control system. as members of the house will know, the council has examined the recent commission communication on a roadmap to an integrated internal control framework, which is part of the process towards a positive statement of assurance. the uk presidency and the commission established a panel of experts which helped prepare a draft council conclusion on this issue. the council adopted conclusions on 8 november 2005, confirming that achieving a positive statement of assurance is the european union’s objective and listing a series of recommendations for action by the commission and by member states. the council considers those conclusions to be an important step towards a positive statement of assurance and will continue to support the commission’s efforts to contribute actively to improving the financial management of the european union at all levels, but the decision lies ultimately in the hands of the court of auditors.
deputising for the author. – i accept that in your reply you acknowledge that there have been some improvements, but i hope that the presidency will also accept that we have had lots of recommendations for action before but been a little bit short on action. very briefly, the information note from the european court of auditors says on page 7 that the adaptations and validations necessary to ensure the full implementation of the new accounting framework have been delayed. why, and for how long? on page 8 it concludes that cap expenditure was still materially affected by errors. why? it adds that on internal policies the risk of errors will persist unless the legal framework is changed. will it be changed and when? we should all accept that these problems are not the fault of the presidency. but will the presidency accept that it has a responsibility to press for actions on these recommendations and could it perhaps write to me on the specific points that i have just raised?
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member that these are matters that we take extremely seriously. indeed in the remarks that were made by my ministerial colleague the foreign secretary in this house this afternoon, he made clear that ‘failure to sign off accounts for the eleventh successive year, which is very poor, affects the climate of debate in all our countries’. so at every level of the british government and in the course of our presidency, we have recognised the need to take forward work on this issue. that is why we have been working with the commission to improve financial management and control of the budget. in january 2005, the commission introduced a new accounting system, which should offer the court of auditors better information as the basis for giving a positive opinion on the presentation of accounts. the new system, i understand, will be used to produce the accounts for 2005. the presidency also secured member states’ agreement at the 8 november ecofin council on a package of further proposals for improvements in financial management and control, known as i described in my earlier answer as the roadmap, which the commission has put forward. so i can assure the honourable member that this is not simply a matter of concern to the british presidency, but one which, in the course of that ecofin meeting and in support of the renewed efforts of the commission, we have been determined to take forward. he is generous in acknowledging the fact that this problem, because it is a real problem for the european union, long predates the british presidency. i hope that in the course of the six months of the british presidency, we will have been able to play our part in resolving what has been a long-standing issue, which has brought no credit to the european union and on which i hope a way forward can be found in the months and years to come.
would the president-in-office accept that there are few, if any, individuals in brussels stuffing their pockets with money? would he also accept that most of the complaints that the court of auditors brings forward concern systems and procedures, and not fraud in its narrow sense, and that if fraud does occur it is generally in donor countries or, indeed, sometimes in the member states of the european union?
president-in-office of the council. the honourable member is of course right to acknowledge that although the european court of auditors’ report concerns the european union accounts, 80% of the spending under that is in fact implemented by member states through agriculture and structural funds. however, we must be take care not to simply deploy that argument in case we are perceived to be complacent in the face of the challenge we face. i would simply reiterate the point the foreign secretary made earlier, which is that, in the hands of those who are hostile towards the very idea of the european union, the failure to sign off the accounts for the eleventh year is ammunition which we should certainly endeavour not to provide in the years ahead. it is certainly true that action needs to be taken at member state level rather than simply at the bureaucratic level within brussels, but that should not in any way provide an excuse for the action that other members have called for not being taken both in brussels and at member state level. all of us with an interest in building and sustaining support for the european union and its efforts amongst european citizens have a strong vested interest in seeing this long-standing problem being resolved. that will involve action at the member state level, but it will also involve the kind of important work that we took forward at ecofin and which, i am glad to say, has the support of the european commission.
i wish to follow mr martin’s observation to the presidency-in-office, because the president-in-office used the expression ‘has brought no credit to the european union’, as if somehow the european union is a different institution from our national institutions. i simply should like to emphasise the fact that the reason the court of auditors has found it difficult to sign off the accounts is not because of corruption in the european union – as distinct from the member states – but because the member states do not assist the european union to give the sort of valid accountancy that the court of auditors and eu institutions require. i wish to ask the president-in-office to give the public confidence that, of course, we must be scrupulous; but it is not somebody else’s fault: it is our member states’ fault.
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest respect to the honourable member, i disagree that the best way to tackle this problem that has existed for 11 years is somehow to get into an apportionment of responsibility which suggests that one is better than the other, or vice versa. the challenge, surely, is to recognise that there is a shared problem. it would simply be disingenuous if i were to suggest that this does not present a very considerable reputational risk to the european union, not least in the way that this failure to secure a statement of assurance for the eleventh year running has been presented in newspapers in a number of countries across the european union, rather than get into a ‘who is right, who is wrong’ argument. the challenge is to find solutions that reflect the respective responsibilities of the commission, the bureaucracy in brussels and the member states, but it is not an adequate response to the fact that, for 11 years, a statement of assurance has not been forthcoming simply to say that this is a matter for member states and therefore there is no shared responsibility to find a way forward. there is a shared responsibility on all of us who wish to see statements of assurance being forthcoming in the future to take the very kind of practical steps that the commission’s proposals represented and that, i am glad to say, we advanced during the british presidency at the recent ecofin meeting.
president-in-office of the council. i welcome the question from the honourable member who i know has a long-running interest in the issue of comitology. he will know that discussions of the commission’s amended proposals resumed once more only in september so i hope that he will understand that it is too early at this stage for me to give a definitive answer to his question on behalf of the council. the working group considering the commission’s revised comitology proposal has met three times so far and will meet twice more under the british presidency. i understand, however, that discussions are going well.
may i just thank the presidency for its answer and urge it to persevere. if we manage to find a solution to this issue which has beleaguered the union for many years, we will be making a notable contribution to our endeavours to regulate better. so much now comes to three readings each in parliament and council that really ought to be delegated to the executive. but we will not delegate unless we have the guarantee that we can, if necessary, call things back, in the same way that the council can. equality between parliament and council is the key to this. if there is better opportunity for scrutiny, we will in turn be willing to delegate much more readily.
president-in-office of the council. i pay due tribute to both the experience and expertise of the honourable member on this matter. i find myself in concurrence with his view, both as to the importance of this issue and to the fact that we need to persevere. i can assure him that, from a presidency point of view, we are persevering on this important point and will continue to do so. finally, i just wish to reiterate that, notwithstanding the fact that these discussions only resumed in september, i am glad to say that real progress has been made in the discussions that have already taken place. i am optimistic that further substantial progress can be made in the two remaining meetings during the british presidency.
president-in-office of the council. all governments face the challenge of dealing with the current unprecedented threat of global terrorism. however, there is no choice to be made between security and human rights. without security there are no human rights, and without human rights there is no security. following the attacks in london on 7 july this year, the council held an extraordinary meeting on 13 july. at this meeting the council adopted a declaration on the european union response to those terrible bombings. in the declaration the council made it clear that, and i quote directly: ‘the attacks are an affront to universal values on which the european union is based. central to those values is a commitment to democratic and open institutions and societies governed by the rule of law within which people of all faiths and backgrounds can live, work and prosper together. the terrorists who reject that commitment and seek to use violence to impose their ideas will be defeated’. they added thereafter that the european union was strengthening, and again i quote directly: ‘its commitment to combating terrorism and upholding the fundamental principles of freedom, security and justice’.
thank you for your response. i accept that this is a matter in which there ought to be more choice and it is an issue of striking the right balance. what i would like to know is: in what way does the detention of persons without charge, the refusal to provide meaningful information for the reasons for detention and the removal of a lawyer’s right to take meaningful instructions in such matters either reaffirm these values or assert their validity?
president-in-office of the council. my colleague the foreign secretary indicated that this was the 47th appearance of a british minister in the course of the presidency before this parliament. i can assure the honourable member that i will be back in my customary place in the course of the further plenary sessions of this parliament. our prime minister has committed himself to coming back to speak to parliament. whatever other criticisms or scepticism may be directed toward the british presidency, a lack of discussion with the european parliament is perhaps not one of the most forceful.
president-in-office of the council. i admire the opportunism of the honourable member in seizing the chance of a supplementary to raise the issue he was going to bring up in question 17. i would simply, perhaps disappointingly, reiterate to him my earlier response to the effect that it really would not be appropriate, given the delicacy and importance of the issues that are being discussed and that will be taken forward in the course of our presidency, to try and draw out a particular element of the potential package around which we hope to secure consensus in december.
president-in-office of the council. i can be brief in answer to this question. the council has never debated this question and it is not within its sphere of competence.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, following the ongoing debate on transparency and openness in the council and the exchange of views between the united kingdom presidency and members of the european parliament on this issue, a first discussion took place in coreper, the permanent representatives´’ committee, on 19 october. the presidency is currently exploring, together with the incoming austrian and finnish presidencies, a series of possible measures aimed at further increasing legislative transparency in the council.
i thank the president-in-office. let me say what an enormous relief it is to have a few minutes of not debating reach in endless groups around this parliament – a few minutes only, i fear. i see that mr kirkhope is not here, but i am conscious that he raised this issue in an earlier debate. i should like to personally thank the president-in-office for his efforts in this matter. i recognise that he is doing what he can to promote the agenda. i have here a copy of a letter from mr rasmussen, the prime minister of denmark, stating that he supports a change in the rules of procedure. i suspect that similar letters could be obtained from estonia and sweden to start off with. we already know the british position. that is four votes and you need only another nine. i know the council prefers to do things by consensus but in order to achieve something of real substance – a real change – should the presidency not push this to a vote at the next general affairs council and name and shame member states that do not support this position?
president-in-office of the council. i am intrigued by the advice being offered by the honourable member. a strategy of not seeking consensus and naming and shaming is a curious line of argument to advance but i think it indicates the seriousness of the strength of feeling among many honourable members of this house on this important issue. the position of the british government on this matter has been stated by none other than our prime minister, but he is right in recognising that the united kingdom, although acting as presidency, is not the sole actor on this stage. i fear i will disappoint the honourable member by pointing out that, because the agenda for monday is so heavily charged, as not only defence ministers but also development ministers will be involved, we will not discuss transparency next week. an options paper will be issued in the coming days and it will be discussed by the antici group before a discussion in coreper ii. coreper i will also feed into that process so i am grateful for the generous words of the honourable member. i can assure him it is a matter on which we are making continued efforts but we are convinced that the way forward is not to address it on 21 november at the forthcoming general affairs council, but to seek to make what will be important progress in these other fora which i have described.
mr president-in-office, you were intrigued by the questioner. i am intrigued by your answer in pretending that the british government stands in favour of more transparency. i have in my hand the house of commons european scrutiny committee report published on 24 october. it contains an answer setting out the british government’s position in response to the proposition that there should be meetings of the council held in public. it says: ‘the government believes that it would not be possible for the european council to reach agreement on difficult issues which cannot be resolved by the council of ministers if it is obliged to work in the full glare of publicity’. so, what is the real stance of the british government? are you in favour of transparency, or are you in favour of avoiding working in the full glare of publicity, as this answer suggests?
president-in-office of the council. i will answer the honourable member by saying that, not least as befits the country holding the presidency of the european union, the answer will be provided in terms of the presidency's proposals, because what matters is not the view of one country but the view of the member states. when we issue proposals in the coming days, setting out to partners the possible options for increasing transparency in the council, i can assure the honourable member, who has spoken with eloquence in terms of the importance he attaches to this issue, that we will be discussing this paper with the incoming presidencies and also with the council secretariat. these options will be taken forward in coreper, as i said previously, on the basis of the options paper at the antici meeting later this month. that, i believe, is the constructive way forward to ensure that we get the outcome which so many here seek.
is the presidency aware of the long history of this issue in that this parliament has pressed for the council to meet in public when acting as a legislature ever since it was first elected in 1979? indeed, the british presidency in 1976, when represented in the energy council by one tony benn, took the initiative of saying that council should meet in public when acting on legislation. would he recognise that we have made a lot of progress together in our gradually evolving constitution, in that the council now at least publishes the results of all its votes on legislation and grants the public a right of access to documents, but that it would be worth going one last extra step and actually meeting and voting in public when adopting legislation?
president-in-office of the council. i defer to the honourable member in terms of the detail of his historical understanding of this issue, reinforcing the longstanding interest that the benn family has taken in this matter. it might be of interest to the honourable member to be aware that this is a matter in which i have been in discussion with tony benn’s son, because he is now one of the united kingdom’s representatives on the council of development ministers and therefore has a direct interest in the position that we take in that and other councils. i am glad to say that his observations reflect quite the weight of history that lies behind the important discussions that we are taking forward with member states at the moment. in answer to the earlier question, i would simply reiterate the point that our own prime minister made when he addressed the european parliament early in the course of the british presidency: it is that impulse that has driven us to take forward the discussions at coreper and that we now anticipate we will take forward in the days ahead.
mr president-in-office, i apologise to you and the presidency itself for being late. i spoke with mr hilary benn on sunday about this very matter when we were at remembrance day in leeds. i should like to ask the president-in-office what the position is regarding what i was told by mr blair – and indeed what i was told today by mr straw – concerning how we go forward with this issue of openness and transparency in terms of the council. i was told by mr blair that it would be fine to go ahead as long as it was within the rules. i was told by mr straw this afternoon that two options were being considered. i would like to know whether those options are within the rules or whether we are looking at a change in the rules.
mr president, i am not going to break the mould because i too support the idea of rejecting this proposal. as everybody else has said, it is hard to see any animal welfare benefits in what the commission is proposing. i understand that the commission’s own scientific and veterinary committee queried the proposal, and there are even some question marks about how it was consulted. it is also perplexing – and i raised this in committee – to see a list of 19 species to be covered by the directive and then to discover that some of them were actually protected species in the european union. it seems strange to describe how to trap animals that you are not allowed to hunt by law. i would appreciate the commissioner’s comments on that. they say that you cannot please all of the people all of the time, but i am afraid that this proposal does not seem to please anybody at all. therefore, i was pleased to hear that the commissioner is prepared to listen to parliament and to find an alternative way forward on this issue. mrs scheele has done a very good job and we have a united front in parliament, which is very different from the debate the commissioner witnessed on reach yesterday, the outcome of which we will see tomorrow in the vote.
mr president, i would like to echo the comments that have already been made by several other members in support of the position of mrs scheele, the rapporteur, in her report. as we have heard, colleagues want to reject the commission proposal for a number of different reasons; but we are in agreement about the rejection. as has already been said several times, this proposal has been criticised by anyone who is involved in this area – by the scientists, by animal welfare groups, by pro-hunting groups – because it is not based on the latest scientific research evidence and it certainly does not prevent, or even reduce, the suffering of animals in traps. this parliament has often shown its political will to protect animals and this weak proposal certainly does not achieve that. the standards here are not humane. we are not talking about a few animals, but about millions of animals that are trapped every year in the european union. there are many areas where the proposal falls short of what can be achieved or what could be achieved to improve animal welfare. for example, it allows traps that are not classed as humane to be used while better traps are developed, but no time limit is put on this. the priority is for trapping to continue. there are no safeguards, as we have heard already, to protect endangered species from being killed in traps in some areas where we know those species are found. the only way to do that would be to ban traps in those areas. so for these reasons, and for many other reasons, it is not acceptable and the commission should produce a new proposal.
mr president, the commissioner spoke earlier on about our international obligations. i would argue that the so-called international agreement is at best ambiguous. i am no legal expert, but the commission must agree that there are serious legal inconsistencies between this proposal and other eu policies, to which both mrs mcavan and mr blokland, from different starting points, have drawn attention. mr maaten mentioned the habitats directive. however, there is also the protection of laboratory animals in research. these and others are serious and sound policies for the protection of wildlife and animals that are sadly used in laboratories. this is an important subject; it cannot be left merely to the luck of the toss. air in the atmosphere and the air we breathe is rightly considered a subject necessary for environmental legislation at eu level. i would say to the previous speaker, mr fjellner, that this proposal falls into the same category of being important and necessary, but at the moment it fails to take account of many previous decisions. as mr schnellhardt noted, we have to work with other countries in the world – the united states, canada and russia. however, for our own credibility, i would argue that we can do better than this and we have to do so. i commend the rapporteur for her work and, speaking on behalf of this parliament’s intergroup on animal welfare, i too call for withdrawal of this proposal, because, sadly, it will do nothing for the welfare of animals. in the light of what the commissioner has heard tonight, i suggest that to avoid humiliation tomorrow, he withdraws it before it is put to the vote in plenary.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in these three reports we have another proliferation of crackpot ideas from the european parliament, but they do show where this place and the european union intend to head. they call for the rejection of a new generation of nuclear weapons, for progressive and significant steps towards nuclear disarmament by britain and france and for the harmonisation of arms exports – all this when the world is growing more dangerous and not less so. the incompetent left-wing utopian dreamers who predominantly make up this deeply stupid and corrupt place do enough damage with their legislative efforts without meddling in defence issues. national governments might one day, eventually, be able to undo the eu’s idiotic policies on agriculture, fishing, commerce and finance, but if the eu manages to take control of defence there may be consequences that cannot be undone. all these reports are building blocks for a common european security and defence policy. this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that a harmonised defence procurement policy appears in one of these reports, despite being an element of the failed european constitution. britain’s armed forces are being merged into a european army. britain is sleep-walking towards the day when we will wake up and find that we have no independent military and defence capabilities. if the day ever dawns when britain’s national defences are controlled by the european union, then god help us. yes, may he help us, you bunch of buffoons.
mr president, firstly i welcome the report on the code of conduct and arms sales and draw to the house’s attention the fact that many of the demands we made in our previous annual debates on this subject have been realised: in particular the new trade regulation on torture equipment, the common position on brokering, and the new obligation to stop exports if there is a risk to international humanitarian law. most of all i welcome this year’s commitment to make the code legally binding. could the commissioner comment tonight on the fact that practice sometimes falls short? why is it that austria, luxembourg and greece, for example, do not produce their annual reports? this year information has been published that shows that france has exported bombs and grenades to burma and sudan, and italy has exported firearms to china and to colombia? will she comment on the position of our arms exports to colombia, a country where there is now ample evidence of human rights abuse by the colombian military? many speakers tonight and some of the amendments have referred to the uk position. i am proud that my own country, in its previous presidency, oversaw the agreement of the eu code of conduct on arms sales and in this presidency has overseen agreement by the european union, for the first time, to support an international arms trade treaty. we take seriously our obligations as a nuclear weapons power. the uk government has reduced the stockpile of nuclear warheads by more than 70%, has reduced the number of warheads on each trident submarine, from 94 to 48, and has dismantled all of the we-177 nuclear bombs. at the non-proliferation treaty conference on 5 may the british government spokesman said: ‘we recognise that we have particular obligations as a nuclear weapons state under article 6 of the treaty. we reaffirm our unequivocal undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of nuclear arsenals, leading to nuclear disarmament’. like everyone else here tonight, i share the concerns about the failure to come to a strong consensus as an outcome of the npt conference earlier this year. but i believe it is wrong to for us to focus on individual countries, whether it be the uk or france. we should ensure that all nations undertake their obligations under that treaty. we should welcome the fact that there was an eu-agreed common position in advance of the npt review conference and take up the mantle of issues, where we, as the eu, should take a lead, such as withdrawal from the treaty, the universalisation of rigorous safeguard standards through the iaea additional protocol, and also the question of the transfer of enrichment and reprocessing technologies.
mr president, madam commissioner, in discussing defence matters we are entering into important and sensitive areas of national sovereignty. many of us feel that the eu’s defence ambitions are wholly misplaced. if you want to empower the european union as a global actor or if you believe in an integrated european state or, indeed, a european defence union, as we heard earlier, then you will have a different view. we are opposed to eu meddling in defence, both in principle and in terms of its practical consequences. however, we recognise that there are areas in which a multilateral approach can be beneficial, and this is particularly true in relation to non-proliferation and arms export controls. turning firstly to defence procurement, the wuermeling report is driven by a very strong integrationist impulse. it even poses the question, in paragraph 12, as to ‘what extent any meaningful distinction at all can still be drawn between national and common european security interests’. certainly the report seeks to entrench the european commission’s role in defence procurement and wants such matters dealt with under eu rather than national legislation. we already have a situation where the british defence procurement market is open to foreign competition in a way in which the market in france, for example, is not. we see british defence companies – important national strategic assets – being taken over by foreign firms. while british conservatives are most supportive of measures to strengthen a genuine single market in most sectors, defence should continue to be the exception and should be safeguarded. on the subject of wmd, we attach enormous importance to combating proliferation and to strengthening the security of component materials. at the same time, the uk’s independent nuclear deterrent force continues to be a vital element of our defence strategy and one which has not lost relevance in spite of the changed security environment in which we live. the british government must not only take the necessary decisions to maintain our nuclear capability; it must also be prepared to adapt our weapons and the doctrine for their use. on the subject of arms exports, while we welcome calls for better verification of the end-use of exported goods and the maintenance of the arms embargo on china, we continue, however, to have difficulty with the idea of a legally binding code of conduct. this would extend judicial authority into areas that are more properly the preserve of government and would further extend the reach of eu institutions, including the european court of justice. tonight we have a dangerous mixture under discussion.
mr president, on a point of order, in view of the controversy on the massive number of amendments, i quote rule 53(1), which reads: ‘where the commission proposal as a whole is approved, but on the basis of amendments which have also been adopted, the vote on the draft legislative resolution shall be postponed until the commission has stated its position on each of parliament’s amendments.‘if the commission is not in a position to make such a statement at the end of parliament’s vote on its proposal, it shall inform the president or the committee responsible as to when it will be in a position to do so; the proposal shall then be placed on the draft agenda of the first part-session thereafter.’ (applause from the right)
(the speaker spoke irish) mr president, i speak on behalf of the great majority of the gue/ngl group. we voted in favour today, even though this legislation it is not as strong as we would have wished, because we need legislation that will protect lives and workers’ health, as well as the environment. we are very pleased that the packages we have agreed with others on authorisation and on the duty of care have been accepted. the regulation of chemicals within the eu must give proper protection to workers, consumers and the environment while, at the same time, being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of european industry and thereby ensuring jobs. we are very disappointed with the nassauer-sacconi compromise on registration. the challenge was to agree a registration package for collecting the information needed to assess the risks. with the deal that has now been agreed, the necessary information will not be available. what we need is a strong reach regulation that will give us the information needed to assess whether chemicals are dangerous, even those chemicals produced in low tonnages. we want legislation with mandatory substitution of the most dangerous chemicals. the burden of proof must be with the companies and not with public authorities. it is with these principles in place that public health and workers’ health is best defended. every serious impact assessment of the reach proposal shows the immense health benefits of a workable chemicals policy and this is in stark contrast to the exaggerated industry calculations. reach should be a matter of common sense. companies should know what they are doing and should be held accountable for their products.
in writing. today i voted against the amended proposal and legislative resolution on reach because, as the votes progressed, amendments to ease the burden on smes were genrally lost. thus, the balance shifted in favour of restrictions which are so burdensome that they have the potential to drive parts of our chemical industry out of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise negotiated on reach between the socialist group and the greens, liberals and united left concerning scope, substances, authorisation information, transparancy and limitation of animal testing and the compromise with the epp on registration. these compromises are not ideal, but they appear to be the best deal currently possible, given the political majorities in the parliament. we do need to test chemicals. recent medical evidence shows that each one of us has 300 more chemicals in our bodily tissues and blood than our grandparents did. we also know that there are increasing rates of asthma, cancer and other diseases which probably originate from chemicals. some in the chemical industry argue that such testing is costly. but anyone who recalls the asbestos tragedy will know that money invested in the testing now can save thousands of lives and millions of pounds downstream. with the burden shared with our fellow countries in the european union, this is well worth doing. and if it can be done while minimising animal testing, so much the better.
in writing. i have been campaigning for over three years in support of a strong reach. today i cast my vote against the report of mr sacconi because i believe that the amendments by parliament have produced a proposal which would be too weak to protect our health and safety. this is one of the most important pieces of legislation that the parliament has dealt with since i was elected in 1999. its purpose is to protect human health but the substantial influence of the chemical industry has resulted in a proposal full of loopholes. i don't believe that we can compromise on the health of future generations. we know that our bodies are contaminated by chemicals now. children have a right to be born chemical free but today's proposal will not achieve that. therefore i could not vote for it.
in writing. throughout the extensive voting the following principles were followed: 1) we supported the repatriation of authority to member states and within that general statement where possible we supported the interests of smes 2) we supported all reductions in the use of animal testing
in writing. you don't wait for an aeroplane to crash before you test it for safety, and neither should we for chemicals in household products. this new legislation will require manufacturers to prove chemicals are safe before they are used, ensure that the most dangerous chemicals are replaced with safer alternatives, and introduce a right to know about the health rules of chemicals in products we use. only 143 chemicals have been subject to official controls in the last thirteen years, yet this new eu law at a stroke introduces a comprehensive system of regulation for all 30,000 chemicals on the european market. the women's institute, including representatives i met with this week from cambridge and bury st. edmunds, said we should put the environment and consumer safety first, and i am deeply proud that the european parliament as a whole has been persuaded by their campaign.
in writing. after a long a complex vote my initial assessment is that parliament has just about struck the right balance between the vital issues of protecting human health and the environment on the one hand and not over burding industry or creating a legal requirment for unnecessary animal testing on the other. parliament will have to examine the package that now emerges from council to ensure that the delicate balance between these objectives has been maintained.
in writing. i voted in the reach debate as i did because, as a labour mep, i support the overall objectives of reach: the protection of human health and the environment through increased knowledge about potentially hazardous chemicals. i would like to see a rapid, efficient system for collecting the necessary information on chemicals and for tackling those of most concern, whilst minimising animal testing and maintaining the competitiveness of the chemical industry. i believe that vertebrate animal testing should be kept to the absolute minimum necessary to ensure that sufficient information is available for decision-making on health and environmental protection. i support the uk's proposal for a system of 'one substance, one registration', whereby all manufacturers or importers of the same substance would work together to provide one set of 'core' data for registration. that would ensure that an agreed package of information would be assembled at registration, thereby providing coherent information for the benefit of users and consumers.
in writing. the reach vote is one of the most important before this house. i would like to record my support on authorisation for block 1 and amendments 232 and 214. i am pleased that these amendments passed. public health is vital and we must decrease our exposure to dangerous chemicals. replacing chemicals which cause cancer and which affect human reproduction is essential.
in writing. i voted for rejection of the commission proposal on "humane" trapping standards. the proposal did not do enough to protect the welfare of animals and because of the way it was drafted was difficult to amend. i hope and trust the commission will now come forward with a proposal that places profit below concern for animal welfare.
in writing. i voted for this report. i support its call not to lift the arms embargo on china until there has been a clear and sustained improvement in the human rights situation in that country. however, i do not believe it is right to treat china differently from other countries with an equally disturbing track record in protecting human rights. i would also like to see further debate on the possibility of converting the code of conduct into a fully legallly binding code on arms sales.
in writing. i welcome this report which completes the requirements for the creation of a european union solidarity fund. it sends a good signal to citizens that the eu will now be able to mobilise funds for the populations of regions struck by disasters.
in writing. i welcome this report which reaffirms support for multilateral agreements on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and recognises the risks presented by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. specifically, the report is a response to the eu strategy on wmd which i back. i am pleased that the rapporteur agreed to the removal from his draft of references to specific member states.
in writing. this report is parliament's response to the green paper "towards a european defence equipment policy". i welcome its proposals. through these measures the commission intends to contribute to the gradual creation of a european defence equipment market which is more transparent and open between member states and which, whilst respecting the sector's specific nature, would increase economic efficiency. i am pleased that the uk government has also welcomed the green paper as an important and timely initiative to open up a debate on the operation of defence equipment markets in europe.
in writing. british conservatives attach great importance to genuine improvements in the single market. we might also support measures that really had the effect of "increasing economic efficiency as well as competitiveness" in the european defence market. however, this report is driven by the idea of extending eu competence and elevating the european commission to a controlling position in the european armaments industry. recitals f and g mistakenly blame market fragmentation for europe's military weakness and lack of interoperability. there is no evidence that costs would be reduced by a european defence market, certainly collaborative projects prove costly in both time overruns and money. we object to the idea in paragraph 9 that foresees defence procurement being covered by eu rather than national legislation. the proposal in paragraphs 10 and 15 for a directive to supplant article 296 would have serious national security implications. moreover, the promotion of a system of "european preference" for national defence purchases in paragraph 24 is a short-sighted idea that would do further damage to europe's ailing militaries. for these reasons and more, british conservatives voted against this report.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. the statement by the president of iran that israel should be wiped off the map must receive the strongest condemnation possible. however, the eu must resist the temptation to join with the usa in demonising iran. i stongly believe with patience and diplomacy iran could in the medium term become a reliable and constructive partner for the eu in the middle east. if approached properly it could also do much to help stabilise the situation in iraq.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues supported this resolution although it is considerably watered down from what i originally drafted on behalf of the epp-ed group. restricting the scope of the resolution to president ahmadinejad's call to 'wipe israel off the world map' was a wasted opportunity to highlight iran's apparent determination to make a nuclear bomb and its widespread human rights abuses, including the regular execution of consenting homosexuals and others who commit acts branded by the regime as 'crimes of sexual chastity'. president ahmadinejad's comments about israel - made three weeks ago - have already been condemned stridently and unreservedly by all major political leaders in europe and beyond. another round of denunciation by meps serves no useful purpose. ahmadinejad's words are an outrageous threat but his actions could give iran the power to make good that threat. this is no time for rhetoric.
mr president, i wish to make two points, and they both concern money. every 30 seconds a child in africa dies of malaria, and yet there are a number of actions that could put a complete stop to that. bed nets are a low-tech method of protection from mosquitoes, but very few families have them. great progress has recently been made in spain on a vaccine against malaria, but at the moment bill gates and other private foundations are putting a great deal more money into this than international bodies. it is clear that much more can be done and that more funding would make a huge difference, so what excuse can we possibly have not to provide it? my second point concerns an area in which the european union actually has been spending money, and needs to continue to do so without counting the cost too closely. this is our support for democratic elections in africa. i was in ethiopia in may, and just recently in the congo observing the electoral registration process. such action does not come cheap. the total bill was eur 242 million, with 80% of that provided by the european union. however, this is the first step on a very long road for a country facing enormous difficulties in terms of lack of communications and lack of infrastructure. only by putting in the funding to enable the democratic process to get off the ground can we hope to start to see some progress. nobody can pretend that democracy is the answer to everything, but without fair and free democratic elections many other things are simply impossible. so when we look at what we are spending where, we should think very carefully about refusing a budget to actions that are proven to make a difference.
author. – mr president, the horrifying images and tragic personal stories following the earthquake of 8 october might have left our television screens and the front pages of our newspapers, but let us not forget the need for urgent aid is just as great, particularly because of the onset of winter. already there have been 74 000 deaths and getting aid to those in need is a race against time. the pakistan government has put the financial cost of the earthquake at usd 5 billion. the eu has already contributed substantially, but we must do more, much more, and so should the rest of the international community. but it is not just about money; it is about access; it is about helicopters and other equipment to reach inaccessible areas. access over the line of control between india-administered kashmir and pakistan-administered kashmir is also of vital importance. i am very pleased that india and pakistan have opened the five crossing points for goods and i hope other crossing points will be opened as well, not just for goods: civilians should also be allowed to cross. people with relatives and friends on the other side want to help. they want to bring much-needed support and relief, and at present they are unable to do so. already, 950 kashmiris on the indian side and 2 000 on the pakistani side have asked for permits. i know it is difficult because of the long-standing dispute over kashmir, but i hope that the applications can be processed quickly. this human tragedy demands a compassionate response. let us hope that out of this terrible tragedy something good will come and that the survivors may be allowed to live in peace. i hope that, at last, a just solution to this 58-year dispute over kashmir can be found, involving both pakistan and india but, above all, the kashmiri people who have suffered enough already.
author. – mr president, i wish to begin by saying that, due to the previous debates over-running, my colleague mrs gill, who is chairwoman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and the saarc and author of this resolution, and my other colleague, mr moraes, have had to leave and they send their apologies. i speak on their behalf, as well as that of my own scottish constituents, who have asked me to raise their concerns about the issue of how people are being treated after the devastating earthquake. it is of utmost significance that the european parliament expresses its opinion on the kashmir earthquake of 8 october. at the october part-session we marked this tragic event and people passed condolences both to the victims and their families. however, six weeks after this event that has destroyed the north-west region of pakistan and india, the scale of devastation and trauma the earthquake has caused is still being realised. it is estimated that 80 000 people are dead, hundreds of thousands of people are injured and 3 million people are homeless. aid workers have many problems to overcome, including landslides, bad weather, aftershocks and generally difficult terrain. people in the most remote areas appear to be the hardest hit, with very many not having received aid at all. these problems are made worse by the onset of winter and, therefore, it is imperative to get the right type of aid to those who need it. although this is one of the most complex relief operations undertaken, it is no excuse for us not to do our utmost. the fact that most of the earthquake victims have been evacuated should be welcomed. however, snow levels are already creeping down the mountains day by day and thousands of survivors face a more perilous situation as each day becomes a struggle just to stay alive. the conditions in the temporary camps are far from encouraging and it is my understanding that the hygiene level in the refugee camps is intolerable and conditions are primitive. kofi annan has warned us that a second massive wave of death will hit hard as disease begins to spread amongst the survivors. this is a race against time and i want to see the following action points. firstly, although welcoming the commission’s aid package of eur 93.6 million, we must give more and we can do better. official estimates state that more than usd 5 billion are needed over a period of 5 to 10 years to restore the infrastructure of the region. we need to recognise that a standard relief package is not adequate for a situation as dire as this and we need to deploy the reconstruction phase immediately. secondly, i strongly urge the commission and the council to follow the precedent following the tsunami of giving special trade concessions to assist the countries affected by natural disasters of this scale. at the very least they should implement the preferential gsp plus scheme voted by parliament this year to ease the situation. finally, i applaud the opening of five points along the line of control on the border between pakistan and indian-controlled kashmir. perhaps some goodwill will come out of this tragedy. i call upon member states and the commission to ensure that we do not fail the vulnerable and traumatised. i therefore urge you to all vote in favour of this motion. people’s lives depend upon it.
author. mr president, i thank you for that very clear explanation. i was aware of the rules and this is indeed the procedure for the emergency, which was treated a little bit differently. as regards the order of the speeches for the groups, we are returning to the usual procedure, so everything is for the best. mr president, i want to make three comments at the opening of this debate, which i and other speakers welcome. firstly it is one of the biggest disasters in south-east asia. our resolution mentions the figures, which were recalled by the previous speakers. this earthquake has killed and seriously injured more than 200,000 people. millions of people are still left homeless, facing extreme weather conditions and all kinds of serious illnesses. more than 1.8 million people are homeless, as are about 85% of the population of muzaffarabad, which i have visited. this is a horrifying statistic and we in western europe must do as much as we can to remedy this. secondly, in terms of looking at the reaction so far, i applaud the swift action by the commission and the member states to give immediate aid. in this troubled part of the world, we must also particularly welcome the significant efforts by the pakistani and indian governments to ensure that people can make contact across a line of control that has been impassable for more than 50 years. hopefully this can be put into practice more. more importantly, and most urgently, i would like to ask the commission about recent un figures which indicate that so far very little of the aid that has been promised has been received. we would like to know how much of the aid offered by the european union and the member states has reached its destination. but maybe we can make additional efforts in the conciliation of the 2006 budget next week so we can make sure that those who are homeless today will at least have some elementary cover as the winter approaches. this will supplement those really hard-earned funds raised my constituents among others to help these people who are in serious need today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, madam commissioner, today’s bomb attack in india-controlled kashmir, which killed 4 and injured over 100, underlines the urgency of this urgency debate and the painful political backdrop to what should be a natural disaster. the earthquake which devastated the area came on the back of decades of political violence, and now winter is upon them, when the infrastructure and reserves remain so fragile. this house is no stranger to the kashmir issue. our delegation some time ago reached out to investigate a long-term political solution. it has to be acknowledged that local political progress was rather slower. let us please hope that the earthquake can focus minds on cooperation and dialogue. across my country, scotland, we have seen scots asians reach out to their friends and relatives in kashmir. we have seen fund-raising, donations and practical assistance. their generosity of spirit sets us a challenge. it is now over to the politicians, and we in this house and the commission can play our part in urgently coordinating aid, and in the long term, in helping find a viable political solution, because if there is not a political solution what other solution could there possibly be? perhaps there are some positive signs. yesterday the opening of a fifth crossing across the line of control might be the start of a process that will lead to a peaceful solution. the immediate problems of the region are desperate, but as this resolution indicates, we stand ready as we must to help participate in a very long-term rebuilding.
author. – mr president, as mr coveney so eloquently described, the situation in burma is not getting better. this house has passed enough resolutions for aung san suu kyi to wallpaper the house that remains her prison. how does this resolution get serious – because it is well past time that this house did get serious? i refer you to paragraph 1 and our request that the un security council investigate sanctions against this regime. we in the eu took this decision some time ago, yet eu companies continue to play a full part, in particular in the myanmar oil and gas enterprise. it is argued in the grubby world of realpolitik that implementing our own sanctions policy would leave a vacuum that would be only too happily filled by the chinese. perhaps. so it is appropriate and commensurate that sanctions be discussed and implemented at un level. however, global politics should not be used as an excuse for our own double standards. we must enforce our own policy not just against the myanmar oil and gas company, but also against the myanmar timber company and myanmar post and telecoms, and i regret that they do not appear in this resolution. diplomatic pressure has demonstrably not worked against this regime. our application of economic pressure must be stepped up and we must work with the united nations to bring this disgraceful situation to an end.
mr president, we would like to suggest that the end of recital a should read: ‘in the region of kashmir, the north-west frontier province of pakistan, afghanistan and india’. i think this would coincide better with the terminology which would normally be expected in the house on this matter.
mr president, yes, that related to the recitals. paragraph 11 should read 'five' crossing points instead of 'four', because that would bring us up to date with the facts as they are today.
mr president, we are voting on a particularly sensitive matter. we are suggesting that where the recital reads ‘the north-west frontier province of pakistan, afghanistan, india and kashmir’, it should now read: ‘in the region of kashmir, the north-west frontier province of pakistan, afghanistan and india’. that is the text we would suggest and it is actually very similar to the pse group text which comes next.
mr president, mrs gill said before she left that the pse group would back mr elles’ oral amendment because it was so similar to her own.
mr president, we were all trying to address the same issue concerning the mention of kashmir. we are trying to find a wording that will address the issue: whether to call it pakistan-administered kashmir and indian-administered kashmir, as i have suggested. but i am quite happy to accept the ppe-de group’s oral amendment.
mr president, from the interpretation which came through, you were in fact reading out the socialist amendment rather than the ppe-de one. i would like to be clear that we were voting on the ppe-de amendment, then we will be happy on our side of the house and i think on the other side as well.
in writing. the development strategy for africa comes on the back of the uk's "commission for africa" initiative and is designed to introduce a single framework to manage relations between the eu and africa. this strategy is particularly important in the light of the eu's commitment to achieve the millenium development goals. in that regard i feel the communication could have been more dynamic and powerful. the commission have not convinced me with this report that they are yet in a position to mobilise funds and political support on the scale necessary to meet the mdgs.
in writing. i voted for this report which supports the commission development policy statement which aims to provide a framework for all external actions in the field of development. although hopeful i think the impact of the final statement is questionable.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there seems to be a widening gulf between the eu rhetoric on this wto round – which has the word ‘development’ written into almost every sentence – and the reality, which is that the majority of developing countries are continuing to be ignored. this gulf extends to the contradiction between what the council is saying and what the commission is doing. alan johnson, a uk trade minister and representative of the uk presidency, said just a few weeks ago that developing countries must not be forced to open up their markets. he proclaimed that ‘we must reject forced liberalisation’, and yet the commission is adopting an increasingly aggressive negotiating agenda that is diametrically opposed to this. on non-agriculture market access the commission is demanding far-reaching liberalisation that will threaten the very survival of local manufacturing in some developing countries. on services, the commission has completely discarded its former promises about service negotiations being voluntary, and is now demanding a mandatory minimum opening of the market. there is supreme irony, commissioner mandelson, in your being quoted in the newspapers today as saying that one voice which has not been heard in these negotiations so far is the voice of the poor, when the european union is itself guilty of ignoring precisely that voice: the voice of african countries and other acp countries, for example, which have all said they do not want a new benchmarking formula in the services sector. we are in real danger of repeating the mistakes made in cancun. the eu is failing to listen to developing countries and is pursuing its own business agenda with extraordinary arrogance. a resolution has been tabled by the three larger political groups and i want to explain why our group is unable to sign it. no date has been set for an end to export subsidies. indeed, ending export subsidies is now made conditional on parallel movement from other industrialised countries. on services, the resolution demands an ambitious agreement with no rejection of the new benchmarking formula, and no clear exclusion of basic services such as water. on nama, there is a demand for rapid acceleration of negotiations on the basis of an extreme formula which most developing countries have already rejected. extraordinarily, it is suggested that wto members should remove their non-tariff barriers since they apparently hamper market access. those so-called non-tariff barriers include hard-won democratically agreed national laws that protect the environment, social standards and health and they must not be regarded simply as barriers to trade. most important of all, however, is the pressing fact that four years into the dda, the agenda is not delivering for the poor of the world. we need a radical and fundamental revision of trade policy so that this genuinely can be a development round worthy of the name.
mr president, it is pleasant to renew acquaintance in this forum with mr pearson, who served with effect for some time in northern ireland, as did commissioner mandelson. one of the primary duties of the eu has to be to provide a secure source of food for its people. in the rush to secure a wto deal, i trust that this basic obligation is not being either jeopardised or compromised. last summer, in the united kingdom at least, we saw the corrosive effect of cheap south american beef imports on our indigenous beef industry with plummeting prices threatening the survival of many producers. that was with the tariffs as they are at present. if tariffs are further slashed, as has been proposed, then local production will fall, national herds will disappear, and we will become predominantly dependent on south america for our supply of red meat. what then if pandemic disease outbreaks, already ravishing brazil in terms of foot-and-mouth, spread throughout that continent? how then will we feed the people of europe? they will not thank us then for a headline-grabbing, ego-satisfying deal at the wto if we have cut off from ourselves a secure supply of reliable food that is home-produced.
mr president, in 12 days’ time our leaders meet in hong kong to debate the doha development agenda and face the single biggest opportunity to achieve the 2015 millennium development goals. failure to agree terms will not just be a missed opportunity. it threatens parity and prosperity for the developing world; jobs, growth and security in europe; and the future of the multilateral trade system itself. through the ‘make poverty history’ campaign, millions have made their voices heard. they are angry – and rightly so – about unfair trade rules that work against those living in poverty and they are passionate about the need for change. grand gestures about free trade from the g8 leaders at gleneagles now need to be transformed into a flexible negotiating strategy to deliver on all parts of an aid, trade and debt relief package. we are witnessing, yet again, the historic struggle between free trade and protectionism. initiatives like duty- and quota-free access for ldcs, special and differential treatment, and aid for trade cannot be held up in an agricultural silo by more advanced developing countries, especially when the offer on the table is the most substantive ever made by the eu. the offer is not perfect. in an ideal world, it should go further, with the principle of less than full reciprocity to all nama negotiations, or reduced subsidies for sensitive products. that could still happen, but, for now, compromise and leadership is necessary – the kind which the more advanced developing countries will have to accept if they are to receive any benefit from the current round. failure in hong kong will allow the us and japan to increase trade-distorting domestic support by up to five billion dollars, and europe by up to 25 billion dollars. that is why pascal lamy told a forum of african ministers last week that this is what is at stake and this is why we have to bid on what is on the table although it is not sufficient. before allowing these talks to collapse, the world must ask itself how many more failures the wto can suffer before it falls apart. how much more frustration can be endured before a new regionalism emerges and the poorest countries are left behind? yet we have been told that a soft landing is all we can hope for in hong kong. but by late 2006, the us mandate will have run out and, with it, the chance to eradicate poverty. our revised ambitions for hong kong must therefore not be a soft landing, but rather a springboard or, as commissioner mandelson has said, a platform for delivery early next year. on that, commissioner, we are with you.
mr president, it is an unpopular thought here, but perhaps we should say a few nice words about the united states of america. after all, that country has made a tremendous offer: it has put the offer on the table; it has said it is prepared to make big cuts in agricultural subsidies; it has said it is prepared to make major tariff reductions on agricultural goods and it has challenged the european union to match the offer. now i think that there is a big change in washington, the free trade arguments are winning, but are we going to play the game? well, mr mandelson has made it clear already that we are not going to play the game. as pascal lamy has said, the us proposal was five times as ambitious as the eu’s response. now whether this is the european union speaking, or whether it is the undue french influence on trade policy, i am not sure. however, all of it makes me think, because just last weekend there was a commonwealth conference. a third of the world’s population was represented there and they were asking mr blair for a trade deal. but mr blair had to say there was nothing he could do, because the british do not have a voice – that is all sorted out by mandelson over in brussels, and he speaks for all 25 countries. i firmly believe that if there was an independent british voice – and i am talking here about the world’s third largest trading nation – at the wto next month, it could actually speak up for the third world. i hope mr blair crowns his presidency by pulling britain out of the common commercial policy and going in next month himself to speak at the wto. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i wish to inform the president-in-office and the commissioner that i was very interested to read a paragraph in the conclusions adopted by the general affairs council last week that stated that there was strong commitment to the needs of developing countries, and in particular the ldcs, and that the council supported an ambitious development programme in hong kong. almost simultaneously, a decision was being taken to make drastic changes to the sugar regime that has been in place in the european union for many years. those drastic changes will have huge implications for the 18 sugar protocol countries in particular, as well as for ldcs. similarly, decisions that will destroy thousands of livelihoods in banana-dependent countries – our traditional suppliers – were also taken last week. when you say these things in the council, how can you simultaneously do the opposite? it was decided in the agricultural council to grant eur 80 billion to european sugar farmers. contrast that with the paltry eur 40 billion which is to be given – we hope, as currently it is still virtual money – to acp countries. they will in fact lose more in refining aid than we are preparing to give them to assist in their transition from this. at that council meeting, commissioner fischer boel said she felt that this reform was going to strengthen her hand. i really cannot believe that. this morning commissioner mandelson and i were at a g90 meeting, where we heard the grievances of the acp countries in particular. if commissioner fischer boel thinks that she has strengthened her hand to negotiate with developing countries after the decision that was taken on sugar last week, then i do not know exactly what planet she is living on. what we felt at the g90 meeting this morning – and commissioner mandelson will confirm this – was a terrific sense of anger and, indeed, of betrayal. i know the commissioner is not responsible for distributing the aid that these countries need, but something has to be done in order to rebuild confidence in the very short time available to us between now and hong kong.
the eu could be a massive force for good in the world in the hong kong talks, yet we still cannot speak with anything approaching one voice. as we in scotland saw just this summer when hundreds of thousands marched through the streets of edinburgh in advance of the g8 summit in scotland, the people of europe expect action, not more warm words. sadly, it becomes clearer and clearer that where the eu could contribute so much, we will continue our schizophrenic policies which only cheapen the image of the eu in the eyes of the developing world.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, it is perhaps a coincidence that i am not only uk trade minister but also the uk foreign minister with responsibility for human rights. it is a great pleasure to be present here at the european parliament, and to speak to you as the representative of the uk presidency and on behalf of the council, on this important subject. i welcome the european parliament's interest in this topic – as shown by the public hearing here on 12 september – and by the various resolutions you have passed on the matter. i know from my own position as a uk minister that there is a great deal of parliamentary and public concern about human rights in cambodia, laos and vietnam. this year, for example, i and my colleagues have so far received over 100 letters from uk members of parliament about the human rights situation in vietnam alone and it is an issue that is debated on a regular basis within the uk parliament. we have a duty to respond to this concern. human rights must be an important feature of the european union's relations with those countries. this is right, not just because it is a matter of concern to people in the european union; it is also right in itself, because we have a duty to help improve, where we can, the conditions under which the people live in these countries. we must engage with these countries in an honest dialogue about human rights, being frank where performance falls below international standards, but also recognising improvements where they occur. if we are to have such an honest dialogue with these countries, we must base it on an accurate picture of what is happening. we harm our own case if we do not base it on accurate information. all this also means that we must do all we can to work with these countries for tangible improvements in human rights. it means giving practical support to ordinary people, alleviating where we can the impact of poverty, corruption and unemployment. i realise some honourable members believe strongly that the human rights situation in these countries is so bad that the council must take punitive action – through blanket eu sanctions or through a cut or even a complete abandonment of eu aid. let me say right away that, while we recognise the strength of feeling on this matter, there is no support in the council for such drastic action, because we believe this would risk harming the very people we are trying to help – the poorest and most vulnerable people. we believe that a critical dialogue with the governments of these countries is the best approach – and that this engagement can and does bring some results. let me take cambodia first. the tragic history of cambodia requires special measures to ensure the protection of human rights, and to ensure that we never again see the terrible scale of murder and devastation inflicted on the people of cambodia during the khmer rouge era. i am pleased to note here that a number of eu member states, and the european commission, have contributed financial and practical support for the establishment of the khmer rouge tribunal. we look forward to the early start of the tribunal's proceedings. the council shares honourable members' concerns over the current political and human rights situation in cambodia, and is following the situation closely. we have particular concerns over the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, human trafficking, violence against civil and political activists, impunity and corruption. we want to see real democratic development in cambodia. this means that government, political parties and civil society must work together to build an environment conducive to legitimate political activity. frankly, that is not happening in cambodia today. the council is concerned over recent developments affecting the democratic opposition. i appreciate that you also share that concern, judging from your resolution on cambodia in march and the briefing sam rainsy, the cambodian opposition leader, delivered to the public hearing here on 12 september. mr rainsy has visited a number of eu countries, including my own. the council has expressed its concern over this issue several times recently; for example, on 15 february, over the suspension of the parliamentary immunity of three members of the opposition; and again on 19 august over the jail sentences imposed on members of the sam rainsy party. we are particularly concerned over the situation of cheam channy, who is in prison; the eu troika raised its concerns over his case directly with the government of cambodia most recently on 11 november, during a demarche over freedom of expression. we urge the political leadership of cambodia to allow all political parties to operate free of hindrance or intimidation and to allow ngos and all civil society to play a full part in cambodia's democratic development. in laos, the council has a number of concerns over the human rights situation. we again share honourable members' concern in particular over freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and the situation of the hmong people. we are aware that a number of hmong people have emerged from remote areas in recent months to re-join lao society and we are encouraged by reports that these people are being treated humanely. we call on the government of laos to continue to do so, to ensure they are secure and free from intimidation, and to continue to provide them with the necessary humanitarian assistance. the council's contacts with the lao authorities are limited. however, i can assure honourable members that every opportunity is taken to raise our concerns over human rights and governance issues; for example, the eu heads of mission did so with the foreign minister of laos on 10 november. we are encouraged by some recent positive signs, for example in the field of freedom of religion and in the creation of a human rights division in the ministry of foreign affairs in laos. the council's relations with vietnam are more substantial; and here too we work hard to ensure proper priority is given in our relationship to the issue of human rights. we hold a regular human rights dialogue with the vietnamese government, covering all key areas of concern, for example, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, the use of the death penalty, and the situation in the central highlands. the next meeting will be held on 12 december, but we use other opportunities to raise human rights concerns as well. for example, the eu troika heads of mission did so during their visit to the central highlands last week. such visits are very important: they enable heads of mission to see the situation of the ethnic minorities there at first hand, including those who have chosen to return to the central highlands from cambodia. that is why the council will continue to press for free access for diplomats and international organisations. we welcome vietnam's increasing cooperation with the unhcr, including in the context of the tripartite agreement with cambodia; and we welcome too signs that those montagnard refugees returning from cambodia have been well treated. we will continue to monitor this issue very closely; and to work hard through development aid activities to improve living conditions for ethnic minorities in the region. we use our contacts with the vietnamese authorities also to raise issues of individual concern. the eu maintains a list of prisoners and detainees of concern, and takes every opportunity to raise the issue of detention and treatment of people on the list. i am pleased to report some tangible progress here. the council welcomes the release, so far in 2005, of 12 persons on the list. these are positive steps and we hope the trend continues. we also welcome vietnam's agreement for the eu to visit two individuals on the list – thich quang do and than van truong – so that we can assess their situation. however, 22 people remain on the list and we will continue to call for their early release. the council regrets, though, that none of those on the eu's list imprisoned in violation of their right to freedom of expression have been released so far. while there are some encouraging signs, the fact remains that in practice freedom of expression is not respected in vietnam. this is a fundamental human right and a vital element of good governance; so the council will continue to call on vietnam to ensure protection of freedom of expression. we recognise too that many of vietnam's people are suffering for their religious beliefs. there is particular harassment of members of unrecognised religious groups and house churches. freedom of religion should not be subject to licensing or state permission: it should be a matter for individual conscience. here too there have been some recent grounds for cautious optimism. we welcome the 2004 ordinance on belief and religion and this year's prime minister's instructions on protestantism as modest steps forward. we want to see now a speeding-up of implementation of this legislation, an easing of restrictions on unrecognised religious groups allowing them to register themselves. vietnam must end official harassment of non-recognised religious groups. to conclude, the council shares honourable members' concern over the human rights situation in cambodia, laos and vietnam. human rights remains an important part of the eu's relationship with these countries. we will continue to raise these issues directly with the governments concerned, and will continue to press them to meet their international human rights standards.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to start by assuring you that the commission in all its activities in cambodia, laos and vietnam is committed to the principles of human rights, democracy and good governance. the commission has stated on several occasions that it agrees with parliament that there are issues of concern in the area of human rights in these countries. first as regards laos, freedom of speech, assembly and association remain restricted and independent local civil-society-based organisations are not allowed. the conditions in prisons are particularly harsh and a smaller number of prisoners of conscience are still in prison, for example, the remaining four leaders of the 26 october 1999 movement. on the other hand, in the last two years and in particular during 2005, the situation has improved. arbitrary arrests of laos citizens seem to be less frequent and since mid-2004 no cases of religious persecution have been reported. turning to the situation of the monks in laos, the commission would like to reiterate that in laos there is not a minority problem of the monks per se. there are approximately 350 000 monks in laos and they are represented at all levels of society including in the national assembly and the government. however, there are a number of insurgent groups consisting of between 1000 and 3000 people and composed mainly of monks which continue to oppose the laos government. regarding these groups, the situation has improved significantly during the last month following direct negotiations between the laos army and insurgent groups. since march 2004 more than 1300 people, mostly women, children and the elderly, have come out from the jungle and been reintegrated and resettled. according to reliable local intelligence there were no killings, mistreatments or persecutions. as regards vietnam, restrictions on the six recognised religious organisations and the lack of religious freedom for non-recognised groups continue to be a major concern. the situation is particularly difficult for ethnic minority protestants in the central highlands and northern uplands and for non-recognised buddhists, hoa hao and cao dai organisations. new legislation relating to religious freedom which has been adopted in the last two years has softened some of the tools used by the state to control religious organisations and allows hitherto non-recognised groups to seek official recognition. it also explicitly prohibits forced renunciation of faith. having said this, much will depend on how the new legislation is translated in practice across the country. in the case of cambodia, the trends as regards human rights and democracy are more worrying. recent events like the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of three members of the opposition sam rainsy party and the sentencing of two sam rainsy party members undoubtedly raise scepticism about the commitment of the two parties in power in the coalition government to a genuinely pluralistic democratic system. it also highlights concerns about the competence and independence of the cambodian judiciary. they constitute a further weakening of the opposition and risk stalling the continued development of the democratic process in the country. as honourable members might be aware, a strong eu declaration has been issued on this subject and i can assure you that eu concerns have been brought to the personal attention of the prime minister by the local representative of the european union presidency. these trends are very serious and deserve our full attention. the commission, together with representatives of the european union member states, will therefore continue to monitor the situation very closely and remain ready to take further action should the situation deteriorate further. on a general level, the commission raises human rights concerns regularly and consistently with cambodia, laos and vietnam. this is done through ad hoc eu troika demarches and in political and expert level meetings, including the joint committees which are established under the european community agreements with these countries. in vietnam and laos, specific working groups on cooperation in the areas of institutional strengthening, administrative reform, governance and human rights have been established under the cooperation agreements. these working groups complement and reinforce the dialogue on human rights by sharing experiences and conducting longer-term policy dialogue in areas of mutual interest, as well as identifying suitable areas for cooperation projects and cooperation programmes. the commission is of the view that the ongoing dialogue and cooperation at a number of levels and in various fora have proven to be conducive in building confidence and engaging the three countries on sensitive human rights issues. it allows the commission to channel eu concerns directly to the authorities in an open and constructive atmosphere, putting steady pressure on them to be more transparent and more accountable in human rights policies. the commission is convinced that engagement on human rights issues through dialogue and cooperation will continue to lead to improvements of the human rights situation on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, all three countries of former indochina have been ravaged by war and now, sadly, they suffer from political oppression. over the past several years, they have begun to integrate themselves into the global economic community. however, in vietnam, for instance, citizens are still being persecuted for their religious beliefs and practices. whilst in theory the vietnamese constitution provides for freedom of religious belief, the country’s courts rarely interpret the laws to protect a person’s right to religious freedom. at the same time as the communist government cries ‘poor’ and seeks eu aid, its embassy in canberra, for instance, allegedly spent almost one million australian dollars celebrating 60 years of communist tyranny. recently the us state department decided to keep the country on the ‘country of particular concern’ list, as vietnam started a campaign against religious communities this summer. police and the military have destroyed ten houses of catholics in quang ngai province. moreover, local officials also oppressed in particular the montagnard, or hill tribe people. people in the central highlands are suffering badly as well as the catholic hmong people and the mennonite followers in the country. vietnam still restricts the press and tightly oversees internet users. cambodia, which suffered enormously under blanket bombing during the war and indescribable, murderous khmer rouge brutality, is now sadly suffering increasing authoritarian rule by prime minister hun sen, who has arrested and issued defamation suits against critics who accuse him of selling territory to vietnam in recent border negotiations as a way, of course, of silencing the political opposition in cambodia. i call on thailand not to extradite those who are seeking refuge on its territory. in laos, members of the student democracy movement have been in jail since 1999. there is total control of written and broadcast media and attempts to put a stop to the internet with problems of human trafficking and forced prostitution. the hmong people are living in constant fear of being attacked by lao soldiers. i welcome the presence of the royal family of laos, who are here in the distinguished visitors’ gallery today.
madam president, i find this debate a bit of a curate’s egg: it is a bit of a mixed bag, as the situation in the three countries is very different. cambodia – where i was the chief election observer for the european parliament in the last elections – is clearly a flawed democracy. it is very clear that the cambodian people’s party won that election. however, their treatment of sam rainsy and other members of his party is clearly unacceptable and the council and the commission should continue to press that message. in vietnam, there is a market-leninist state with a strong reformist movement leading to gradual improvements. nevertheless, the restriction on freedom of expression is something we should be pressing the country about, as well as the discrimination against the united buddhist church of vietnam. the treatment of the indigenous minorities, particularly in the central highlands and in the north is unacceptable by any international standards, even if one allows for their negative role in the national liberation struggle in vietnam in decades past. the real problem, in my view, is in laos, which is an authoritarian and essentially unreformed regime, where there are limits on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of association and freedom of religion and there is no effective political opposition. i recall my colleague olivier dupuis, a former member of the european parliament, being arrested in laos and going on hunger strike because of the inability to distribute material in that country. later on, my colleague, ms morgan, will talk about the situation of the lao-hmong people in laos, which is particularly appalling. we call on the commission and the council to continue to put pressure on all these countries to alleviate the human rights problems, which are different, but still exist in all three countries.
madam president, is there really much point in our debating human rights in these countries unless the eu is prepared to act on the stipulation in its bilateral agreements with cambodia, laos and vietnam that respect for human rights is a condition for the continuance of eu aid? that stipulation continues to be breached on a daily basis, but we still pump in aid as if all was well. all is very far from well. i have time only to refer to abuses of religious freedom. in vietnam, persecution of christians is rampant, being particularly dire in respect of minority protestant christian churches in vietnam’s central highlands and the north. the reverend quang and his associates have been relentlessly hounded by the communist authorities. when the president of the vietnamese committee on human rights addressed parliament in december, he described vietnam as a prison for its people, governed by a red mafia financed by the european taxpayer. he may have overstated our generosity, but that was a stinging indictment of the eu’s attitude to countries such as this.
madam president, i would like to talk about human rights in laos. in the middle of the last european elections, i watched a documentary about the plight of the hmong people. i told myself then that i would take the first opportunity i had in this house to raise the plight of those people. i am glad to have this opportunity here today. the hmong people are an ethnic group that has been persecuted for many years for supporting the us during the vietnam war. when the communist party took over in 1975, thousands of hmong people died because they supported the us at the time. many fled the country, but many others fled to the mountain jungles and are still there today, several decades on. the documentary i watched showed a whole village – young children and old women and men – crying when the camera crew arrived because they believed that at last their plight would be shown to the world. the hmong people of laos have been attacked using helicopters and ground troops. they live a very basic existence and sometimes go without food for days on end despite being surrounded by edible berries: they would rather starve than give away any clues to the laos authorities of their whereabouts. this is fear that women and children, in particular, should not have to put up with in the 21st century. i therefore urge the commission and council to consider very seriously what aid, if any, should go to laos without seeing considerable improvements, in particular with regard to the rights of the hmong people.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, in reply to mr sifunakis, the council confirms its continuing commitment to the promotion of the ideals of peace and human understanding through sport. heads of state and government at the brussels european council of 12 december 2003 supported the idea of an olympic truce and welcomed the united nations' resolution on this. in addition, the troika of education and sports ministers stressed, during the launch of the european year of education through sport on 29 january 2004, the importance of the olympic truce and its message of peace, tolerance and friendship, its unique place in the lives of citizens and its positive role in the promotion of friendship and the breaking down of social and cultural barriers. in reply to mrs martens, the council would initially like to point out to the honourable member that activities relating purely to sport do not fall within the scope of the treaty establishing the european community and that the community has no specific competence in the field of sport. the council considers, however, that measures and events related to sports can be a great help in promoting education, health, social cohesion, and in combating discrimination and ensuring an inclusive society. the council would also like to note that the educational values of sport were acknowledged by the nice european council of december 2000. this acknowledgement confirmed previous declarations – in particular that attached to the amsterdam treaty – which emphasised the social significance of sport and its role in forging identity and bringing people together, and the council's resolution of 17 december 1999, in which sporting activities were shown to have educational value, which can help strengthen civil society. on 5 may 2003, the council subsequently adopted a resolution on the social value of sport for young people. the council firmly believes in the valuable role that sport has to play in developing countries in promoting education, health and community cohesion. it therefore supports the designation of 2005 as the un international year of sport and physical education and welcomes the efforts made to promote the use of sport as a tool for development. poverty eradication and sustainable development are the overarching objectives of both the 2000 ec development policy statement and the revised european consensus on development, agreed by development ministers at the general affairs and external relations council on 22 november 2005. although education and health did not feature in the 2000 dps, the revised european consensus on development policy highlighted human development as an area for community action. we recognise the value of sport in promoting a healthy lifestyle and in preventing many lifestyle-associated diseases. we support country efforts that use sport as an entry point to community education on better health and hiv prevention. in particular, the cotonou acp-eu partnership agreement foresees cooperation and self-support policies, measures and operations aimed at helping community-based institutions to give children the opportunity to develop their physical potential. sport and physical education should mainly be considered in the context of millennium development goal two - to achieve universal primary education by 2015 - and millennium development goal three - to eliminate gender disparity in all levels of education, no later than 2015. for the second millennium development goal, the first priority for the eu in education for development is basic education, in particular primary education. the eu is firmly committed towards achieving universal primary education and gender equality in education by 2015. this is implemented at three levels. firstly, through international institutions, the eu supports actively the un initiatives 'education for all' and the 'fast-track initiative', in partnership with other donors – unesco and the world bank – as well as unicef in this field. secondly, through interventions at country level, increasingly linked to national education programmes and based on funding and policy dialogue with national authorities. thirdly, through supporting ngos for projects oriented towards basic education. the eu also supports non-formal education of young people in the framework of the youth programme. as regards millennium development goal three, the eu is also very active in international fora, such as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the international conference on population and development. one of the key priorities in policy terms in promoting gender equality is granting access for girls and women to education, including physical education. many eu member states support girls' education programmes, such as unicef's accelerated girls' education strategy. in this context, the council welcomes and strongly supports the resolution adopted by the un general assembly at its 60th session in september 2005, which emphasises the role of both formal and informal education in the achievement of poverty eradication and other millennium development goals. the council reaffirms the commitment to support developing country efforts to ensure that all children have access to completely free and compulsory primary education of good quality, to eliminate gender inequality and imbalance and to renew efforts to improve girls' education. lastly, it sets out the commitment to promote education for peace and human development.
madam president, i rise on a point of order under the rules of procedure which concern the possibility for members of the house to ask the president-in-office whether he would give way. i believe the rule in question used to be rule 46, though it may have changed. the minister gave a long and interesting speech, but he has not answered the question about an olympic truce. he said this it not within the competence of the eu treaty, but we have british members of the olympic council. perhaps he might be able to confirm to the house that he would be delighted to speak with his colleagues, including her royal highness princess anne, to suggest that we take the resolution of this house seriously and that we press for what we are calling for, which is 16 days of peace.
madam president, i welcome the olympic truce movement and the olympic truce foundation and believe that the european union should be involved in its work. i support this resolution. the olympics and other global sporting events should be a time when all enmities are put aside between sportsmen and women. all participants should be free to participate. the visit to middlesbrough by the north korean football team during the 1966 world cup and their recent return was graphically portrayed in a documentary, game of their lives. yet i have a warning: this should not be used by the unsavoury regimes around the world as an excuse to evade eu sanctions – smart or otherwise. if robert mugabe is metamorphosed into the coach of the zimbabwean bobsleigh team, he should not be allowed to travel to turin. if khin nyunt is transferred to chief administrator of the burmese windsurfing squad to visit my own constituency in weymouth in 2012, he should not be given a visa. i would make an exception if either were to compete, as nothing undermines dictators around the world as effectively as the world’s laughter. i also welcome the increasing role of the un taskforce for sport for development. djibril diallo, the head of the taskforce, will be in brussels on 10 and 11 january. he will meet commissioner figeľ and the coordinators of the committee on culture and education, and will address a meeting of the sports intergroup. i hope we can build on this and that members will participate.
very good, i let you have a little more time because you are a greek.
member of the commission. mr president, i fully subscribe to many important positive messages on the two motions for resolutions on which you will vote tomorrow. if i were a member of the parliament i would vote the same way. i am sure that sport can bring a lot of values or fruits for our other policies in and around the union.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am an unashamed sports fan. i believe that sport has the power to transform lives. it can give people life chances that they may never have imagined they could have in their lives. it can improve people’s lifestyles, their health and wellbeing; it can lift up the spirits and it can be just great fun. for somebody who played rugby for the best part of 30 years, i know just how much fun playing sport actively can be. i just want to make it very clear that the presidency very much supports the olympic truce initiative. we believe it is a very important and significant initiative. all the un countries agreed a resolution on the olympic truce at their general assembly on 3 november, so this truce is supported by all eu member states. we agree, of course, with mr takkula that our long-term aim should be for permanent peace, rather than just during the olympic games. however, to see peace during the period of the turin games will be a step forward. if that can continue to beijing in the summer olympics in 2008 and to london in 2012, nobody would be more delighted than myself, the council and i am sure everybody listening to this debate here today. i would like to agree with mr van den berg that is very important to tackle racism in football. in fact, this was one of the issues that sports ministers discussed when they looked at how to promote diversity and equal opportunities at a meeting in liverpool in the uk in september. as part of that discussion, ministers heard from uefa about the work that it is doing to tackle racism in football. the motions for resolutions on this subject that will be put to the vote here tomorrow are very important. on behalf of the council, i can say that we certainly welcome the questions; we encourage the olympic truce initiative and support the motions for resolutions before you.
i have received two motions for resolution see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 103(2)/108(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, in recent days my small country of northern ireland has lost its most prodigious sporting talent ever. i refer, of course, to the death of george best. regardless of his much-documented lifestyle off the field, on the soccer field he had a world stature. his dazzling and electrifying skills put him in a league of his own. in consequence, he was much loved and admired across the world. accordingly, it is fitting that the passing of such a sporting colossus should be noted in this international parliament. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, i am sure on behalf of us all, to salute his sporting memory and to express condolences to his son, his aged father, his brother and his sisters. (applause)
i am sure the entire house would share your sentiments and indeed the applause that has just been expressed for the life of george best.
i should just like to bring it to colleagues’ attention that these one-minute speeches are addressed to the chair, not to the commission or the council. you may therefore invite the president of parliament to write in such a manner.
mr president, scotland is playing a full part in the uk presidency of the council of ministers and, in recognition of this, scotland’s seven meps, who come from four different political groups, have collectively been hosting a ‘best of scotland week’ here in parliament. it has featured films from scotland – with world-famous actors such as ewan mcgregor – and lectures by people like alexander mccall smith, the world-famous author of the no 1 ladies’ detective agency series. there is a also display in the foyer of the work of john bellany, scotland’s greatest living artist. but what would a celebration of scotland be without good food and drink? so tonight, to mark st andrew’s day, scotland’s national day, we are hosting a reception in the restaurant, where scottish beef will be available in the european parliament for the first time in ten years. mr president, through you i should like to thank the whole house for its participation in the best of scotland week. we have had magnificent support from members of parliament, and i hope members have enjoyed seeing just how good scotland is and what great produce we have to offer the rest of the world. (applause)
well, as a fellow ‘scott’, mr martin, i should like to endorse everything you said. the unsteady walks of some of the members of parliament are i think a tribute to the whisky that you have been serving up. my only regret is that you did not invite me to repeat my performance of the ode to joy on the bagpipes. perhaps there will be another occasion.
mr president, i understand that the commission is to require the british merchant navy to fly the european flag instead of the red ensign, which is known affectionately throughout britain as the ‘red duster’ and is a symbol of britain’s identity. so much for the repeated statement that membership of the eu does not mean a loss of national identity! i have already advised the chairman of the merchant navy association – a captain in the merchant navy in his own right – that should this come into force, it should be disregarded and the european flag thrown overboard. what then? an attempt to board british merchant ships? i think not. why not pick an easy target, one that does not move about? just a few minutes from here, a great belgian flag was proudly flying this very day – and rightly so – under the cinquantenaire. why not tear that one down, replace it with the european flag and see what the belgian people say?
thank you, i am sure we shall follow that up.
mr president, i wish to speak on the immoral behaviour of the company irish ferries. i know my colleague, mr de rossa, will be speaking on this issue as well. this week that company sacked 550 irish and welsh seafarers and took on latvians at a much cheaper rate – less than half the minimum wage. that is because irish ferries has a new flag of convenience – the cyprus flag – which means that it can skirt around the minimum wage laws of ireland. this is bad for irish workers and it is also bad for latvian workers, because they are being exploited. i hope that this is not the shape of things to come under the services directive. the approach adopted by irish ferries has been positively victorian. it smuggled security men on board the ships to force the staff to accept this switchover. obviously there are serious safety issues here. we clearly need to revisit the 1998 manning directive. i should like to ask you, mr president, to ensure that the council puts this on the agenda for monday’s transport council meeting. this is something that my colleague, mr de rossa, is also very keen to see.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to see you in the chair, because one knows things will run smoothly. that is more than could be said about britain’s six-month presidency of the council, which will soon come to an end, and what an ignominious end it will be. mr blair started out with a sweeping agenda for reform of the common agricultural policy and cutting-back on overregulation. what exactly has he achieved? nothing! the cap is as unreformed as ever and rules, regulations and directives have increased, not decreased. that is not to say that the british presidency will not be significant. mr blair has been under intense pressure to surrender the british rebate of gbp 3 billion per annum in order to prevent the collapse of the eu budget talks for 2007 to 2013. in the tradition of british governments since 1972, it is almost certain that mr blair will surrender the british national interest – in this case the budget rebate – while no doubt still finding a way of trumpeting it as a triumph of diplomacy.
i wouldn’t be at all surprised!
that concludes the item.
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council decision on community measures for the control of avian influenza (com(2005)0171 – c6-0195/2005 – 2005/0062(cns)) (a6-0327/2005), and- the report by ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 90/424/eec on expenditure in the veterinary field (com(2005)0171 – c6-0196/2005 – 2005/0063(cns)) (a6-0326/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the two rapporteurs, mr parish and mrs figueiredo, for the excellent work they have done and the very swift time in which they have done it. this does credit to all the institutions and i am very confident this directive will be adopted before the end of the year. the concerns of european citizens over avian flu and the fact that we have had the first outbreaks in europe have made it even more important to adopt this new, updated and more effective legislation as soon as possible. we all know – and we had an opportunity to discuss the threat of a pandemic in this house some weeks ago – that avian flu is an animal disease. we have to take all possible measures to ensure that it remains so. it is very important to deal with this threat at source – i.e. birds – and this is the aim of this new, updated version of the directive. this directive is also of great importance for international cooperation. as i have informed parliament in the past, i have visited south-east asia, and in fact have just returned from there. the message there is very encouraging, because there is a political will and a strategy for dealing with this threat. however, there is also a need for international support and cooperation. we will offer that support, but we will also participate. the commission is co-hosting the conference in beijing with three international organisations, the oie, fao and who, as well as the world bank, which will aim to coordinate international assistance. we must all distinguish between avian flu, which is an animal disease, and the possible threat of a pandemic. they are two separate issues. i know that in people’s minds there is confusion. they even confuse this with seasonal flu, which is another version of flu, but it is very important for people to distinguish between the two. however, that does not mean one should not take all the necessary precautions and steps to deal with the public health threat as well. avian flu is an existing situation, an existing threat. we have had cases in europe, though fortunately not in the european union, but these cases have been dealt with very effectively and efficiently by the countries involved. i would like to take this opportunity to thank romania, turkey and croatia for cooperating very closely with us. as you know, the suspected cases in greece proved to be false alarms, so i am pleased to say that at this point we have not had any outbreaks in poultry in the european union itself. nevertheless, member states have taken very strong measures and effective preventive measures which are constantly being updated and reviewed to ensure that they reflect current needs and circumstances. this revised directive aims for better prevention and eradication of outbreaks and to reduce health risks, costs and losses. it covers the low pathogenic version as well as the n2 pathogenic strain, but also introduces effective eradication measures, including vaccination, taking into account scientific evidence and experiences in europe in recent years – i could mention the netherlands case two years ago – and elsewhere in the world, and of course the need to avoid the large-scale slaughter and destruction of animals. the commission proposal recognises that the avian influenza virus is largely unpredictable, and therefore that we must be able to take the appropriate proportionate measures to deal with this real situation as circumstances evolve. we also take into account animal welfare and ethical concerns, especially regarding the mass slaughter of animals. you will know that has caused understandable public reaction during past animal health crises. that is why we allow member states, through this new proposal, the option of not applying a stamping-out policy in the event of an outbreak of low pathogenic avian influenza in poultry. this is why the co-financing for outbreaks of disease caused by low pathogenic virus is only 30%. this provision is aimed at discouraging member states, whenever possible, from opting for stamping-out. as i have mentioned, avian flu is public health concern and we are therefore taking all the necessary measures. the most effective way of doing this, as i have said already, is to tackle this virus at source. although we are taking these measures and accept, and are responding to, the input of the european parliament with regard to improving pandemic preparedness, we feel it inappropriate to introduce into the text of this directive those amendments that fall outside its scope – i.e. those concerning public and human health. this directive deals with animal health. i would also like to inform you that two days ago the commission adopted two plans with regard to public health, one on generic pandemic preparedness and the other on influenza pandemic preparedness. we also held the common ground joint simulation exercise last week to test our plans and those of the member states. introducing an effective animal health strategy will directly protect and benefit the poultry industry, but it will also indirectly protect human and public health. i will now turn to the amendments. later i shall circulate a list of those amendments we accept and those which we do not. there are amendments in the report which we will be happy to accept, whereas others warrant full consideration as a matter of principle but in a different context, such as those on the financial aspects, research and support to third countries. as regards research in particular, we are working with my colleague, mr potočnik, towards a proposal for research into this virus, about which we know little. i shall try to speed up this process. i hope that parliament will support us in this. it is important to get the results of this research as soon as possible so that we can plan our response. i would be very interested to hear what members here think.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am pleased that the council has dealt with this item as a matter of urgency. i wish to thank the commissioner and his staff for their cooperation and help. i also wish to thank the council for its cooperation and help. i would stress, as the commissioner did, that this proposal deals with animal health. the aim of the commission proposal is to improve the control of low pathogenic avian influenza so as to prevent an outbreak of the high pathogenic type. once mutation into high pathogenic has occurred, the virus is extremely difficult to control. there is now a clear need to update current legislation to reflect new advances and our recent experiences in europe and beyond, and i support the commission’s attempt to do this. it is very important to get this legislation right in order to protect eu poultry and ensure that legislation is proportionate to the risk posed. we must be well prepared and not fall down the same traps as with the foot-and-mouth outbreak, when there was no proper contingency planning in many member states. the commission proposal aims to introduce compulsory surveillance for low pathogen avian influenza in all member states. it spells out the measures to be taken in the event of an outbreak or suspected outbreak, allows new and more flexible provisions on vaccination – and i welcome that – and brings in a more flexible provision for domestic birds other than poultry, which will help in the case of zoos and endangered species. it also introduces new provisions to ensure cooperation between veterinary and public health authorities. my report on the commission proposal has added, i believe, some important new aspects that were not necessarily considered by the commission. i have called on the commission to assist in the development of a cost-efficient oral, multi-strain vaccine. parliament has agreed to put money into the budget for this, and i welcome that. if an oral vaccine can be produced it will be far better for the welfare of the poultry. i would like a study to be conducted on the impact of migratory birds on the spread of the disease. i want to ensure that any outbreak or suspected outbreak is contained, notably by stopping the movements of poultry and other birds. member states must keep all poultry farmers fully informed of contingency plans which, again, was not the case with foot-and-mouth disease. we must monitor flocks on the flight paths of wild birds. i have amended the proposal to make the disease control measures tougher, notably where avian influenza is only suspected, and with respect to the movement of table and hatching eggs. i have also asked for risk-based flexibility in the application of certain measures so as to avoid unnecessary consequences for the poultry industry. i successfully introduced amendments to allow establishments such as zoos and wildlife parks to remain open, provided there is no threat to disease control. finally, i very much support the commission’s proposal as regards monitoring for low pathogenic avian influenza and the slaughtering of these birds. however, despite the fact that it is scientifically proven that meat from chickens infected with low pathogenic avian influenza is safe for humans to eat, in practice it will almost be impossible to market such meat. we must maintain european consumers’ complete confidence in poultry meat and products. i fear that if meat potentially contaminated with low pathogenic avian influenza were to reach the food chain, it would damage consumer confidence in poultry meat and products in general. i have retabled the amendments excluding lpai-infected meat from the food chain, because i believe that this must be destroyed at this point. i urge the commissioner to look at this carefully and see if we cannot adopt these measures that would take meat infected with low pathogenic avian influenza out of the circuit and have it destroyed. i should make it clear to the house that i am talking about meat infected with low pathogenic avian influenza, not about vaccinated meat, in case there is any confusion on that matter. finally, i would call upon all members of this house to support these amendments and to get this regulation on the statute book as soon as possible so that we can put a proper contingency plan in place in the unfortunate event of an outbreak of avian influenza hitting europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, i thank the rapporteur for what he said and i agree with him. i should also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the commissioner on his openness with parliament – that is a great attribute and very much appreciated by members – as well as on his urgency and on the fact that he has not panicked. this has been a great attribute right the way through. on a number of occasions he has asked members to help him spread the word. i noticed that when he last visited parliament, he asked meps to try to find out and spread the word in their member states to gain awareness of what was happening. we are all happy to do this. of course, we will need full information to continue to spread the word. the health council meets on 9 december 2005 and i hope this will make the situation clearer. we also need to know what the situation is right across the board with member states. i ask this because i understand that 21 member states are already fully prepared and in a state of readiness. could the commissioner tell us which four member states are not in that situation? this is not a party political issue. we want the commission and the governments to come out of this looking good: we do not want to be accused of stupid, irresponsible measures. it is a great opportunity. we have seen what happened in france and the netherlands and the fact that people do not trust the european union, parliament and the commission. if we get this right – and i think the commission is getting it right, but we need more information – we will do a very good job for promoting the european union. this is about transparency and making sure that everyone understands it. at the moment, a number of half-truths seem to be circulating. for example, i hear a lot about the european migratory system – the birds that migrate into the european union. i recently visited one of those sites in the united kingdom. in fact, all the migratory birds in the united kingdom come from the north, not from an area where avian flu is present. it is this kind of information that, in my opinion, people are getting slightly wrong. the commissioner mentioned the disease and i would like to ask him another question. avian flu – to the best of my knowledge – is an infection of the gut, not of the respiratory tract. i believe that is correct and i shall be interested to hear what the commissioner has to say about it. is it correct that a child has already died – admittedly in the far east – from eating infected meat? what are we going to do about the risk of that? to return to migratory birds, i think hunters have a great opportunity to be used in this situation to keep us informed of the way things are. we must recognise that the way in which we are selling food in the european union is a problem: supermarkets force down prices, thereby increasing the risk of a dangerous virus spread. we had a situation where foot-and-mouth came into the european union. we do not know how it came in, but the commission’s staff was very good at sorting it out. swine vesicular disease came into the european union, as did newcastle disease. where did that come from and why did it come into the european union? how are these diseases getting in? it is important to understand – wherever we import food from anywhere in the world – that there is always a risk of bringing a disease into the european union. we must look at that very closely.
i should like to thank all the speakers in the debate so far. we are now going to suspend the sitting for our chicken dinner. (the sitting was suspended at 20.15 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, my group in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety endorses the approach of our draftsman mr sturdy, not least in his encomia for the general rapporteur mr parish, and for the commissioner and his emphasis throughout on studied vigilance rather than either hysteria or complacency. we salute him for that. the six questions that the commissioner sent to the community health ministers seem to me to be the right ones, but the question remains as to whether he gets the right answers from them in terms of the way we can mobilise our stocks of anti-virals prior to the development of a vaccine. i would just say in passing to dr matsakis, whom i greatly esteem, that i do not share his relative happiness with the outcome of the events of 1918. in 1918, death was the firewall that put an end to it; the virus ran out of victims. we cannot be in a situation where we allow that to happen again, and i therefore salute the measures the commissioner has taken. i have just got time for one question: if low pathogen avian flu is also infectious and can mutate, how can we be certain that the import of infected wildfowl and domestic poultry is really under control? in my own country we have had examples of both the former and now today the latter. large stocks of illegally imported chinese chicken meat have been uncovered in the uk over the past few days. we know that epidemics run through channels of illegality and deceit – epidemics, not pandemics. epidemics start that way, so it was with foot and mouth disease. we do not want to see it again and so i hope the commissioner will be able to say in his summing-up exactly what the measures of preventive scrutiny will be.
rapporteur. – mr president, the turbulent proceedings surrounding the approval of the barroso commission seem like a long time ago. some of the fallout is probably reflected in the new framework agreement between the commission and parliament, notably that if parliament were to withdraw its confidence in any member of the commission, the president will either sack that commissioner or come before parliament and explain why not. but it is necessary too for parliament, as well as for the commission, to reflect upon the outcome of the approval procedure. parliament needs to do so from its own perspective. this report, passed by a large majority of the committee, will be the product of that review. the key to our resolve will be to secure an approval procedure that is transparent, fair and consistent; a procedure in which the commission candidates disclose relevant information as to his or her professional capacity to do the job to which he or she will be assigned. the report sets out our criteria for the assessment of candidates, including european commitment and the gender balance that is achieved across the whole team. it codifies the procedure for the approval process, the organisation of the hearings, the questions, the issues of transparency and the decision-making process of each committee. to achieve both greater clarity and coherence it is proposed that a joint meeting of the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents should be charged with the task of declaring the hearings closed. we assert our right to follow the same procedure should there be a casual vacancy from the commission during its five-year mandate. finally, we ask that the next parliamentary elections be brought forward from june to may 2009 so that we will have more chance to prepare the approval process properly. mr president, commissioner frattini, both parliament and commission have learned a great deal from our experience of 2004. the democratic accountability of the union is hereby strengthened. i commend the report to the house.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank mr duff for his report, which has the very agreeable aim of making the parliamentary procedure for hearing commissioners-designate transparent and consistent. the hearing procedure is a political exercise used by the european parliament to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the commission in the eyes of parliament. it is therefore clear that the importance of careful consideration when proposing changes to this procedure is important. as everyone knows, a very important document was signed last may by the president of the european parliament and the president of the european commission, namely the framework agreement on relations between parliament and the commission. this framework agreement, together with the treaties, constitutes the essential reference point. in paragraph 7 it contains a specific provision on the investiture of the new commission. the principles which must be applied during the hearings are three and very clear: the principle of transparency and openness, the principle of fairness and the principle of consistency. these are principles which were agreed by common accord and signed by parliament and the commission last may and which must be applied throughout the procedure. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and all the honourable members to two points. the first concerns the consultation of the commission president-designate in the context of the hearing procedure. the framework agreement explicitly provides that parliament shall draw up the framework agreement and arrange contacts with the president-designate of the commission in good time before the approval procedure of the new commission is initiated. it also provides that parliament shall take account of the observations of the president-designate, as laid down in parliament's rules of procedure. therefore, recital e of mr duff's report must be interpreted as meaning that the president of the commission must be consulted in good time, that is to say, given the opportunity to be heard, and that his observations must be taken into due consideration. i therefore welcome the formula proposed by the rapporteur. the second point concerns the replacement of a member of the college. i personally support the principle, also stated in the parliament-commission framework agreement, that if a commissioner is replaced during the term of office of the college, the committee responsible has the right, as well as the duty, to meet and hear the new member of the commission. this is an important principle! i would point out, however, that while the report uses the term 'designated commissioner', the current treaty on european union clearly states that the new member of the college, when it comes to a replacement, is not referred to as a 'designated commissioner' but as a 'full-fledged commissioner' from the moment of his appointment; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am of course firmly of the view that - even if he is a full-fledged commissioner - the committee responsible must meet him and hear him before he begins to exercise his mandate. i would like to leave this to the rapporteur, confirming the very positive approach of the commission and my staff to the positions expressed.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, one of the special features of the european union is that its central administration does not just consist of faceless bureaucrats: it is headed by a political executive. the commissioners are politicians who hold office thanks to the confidence they receive from the european parliament, and only for as long as they continue to enjoy that confidence, because we can of course dismiss them in a vote of censure. that is essential to the political accountability of the system. it means that, unlike many international structures, our central administration – albeit small – is accountable. that is very important. the hearings are a very visible part of the process of the appointment of the commission, which underlines this principle of accountability. it is something relatively new. it was not in the original treaties. the fact that we have a vote of confidence on the commission as a whole and that its term of office coincides with that of parliament was brought in through the maastricht treaties and enhanced with the amsterdam treaty. the hearings are not even mentioned in the treaties. we have built that up ourselves. it is now an accepted part of our procedure and one which is welcomed by all democrats. this report essentially confirms the practice we have built up, but it brings in three small innovations. first, it limits the written questionnaire that is sent out by committees to commissioners beforehand. these have tended to grow and grow and, frankly, seem to serve no particular purpose when we know in fact that they are answered in a rather bureaucratic way beforehand. second, the report proposes that within parliament we have a joint meeting of the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents of this house to make a global evaluation prior to the debate in plenary and to declare the process of hearings closed. they could, of course, declare it still to be open and ask for a further hearing with one or another designate commissioner. that gives extra flexibility. the third innovation is to call for the european elections to be brought forward from june to may, to give more time for this procedure. that is something we should be asking for anyway as a european parliament, because ever since we enlarged the union northwards it has been a bit silly to have our elections in june, which is the main holiday period in the northern countries. may would be a much better time in any case to have european elections. the procedure has worked well. what happened last time showed that it worked well and we are not asking for a right of censure on individual commissioners. what happened last time showed that there are ways and means of correcting queries about an individual commissioner through the president of the commission, whilst maintaining the collegiality of the commission. it works. if it had not worked we would not have mr frattini here with us today to take part in this debate, and it is with pleasure that i welcome him. i also welcome his comments. they were slightly grudging at some points. however, i noticed that he did not challenge the fact that this report is entirely compatible with the interinstitutional agreement. it is in that spirit that it was drafted and in which i am sure it will be adopted tomorrow by this parliament. i thank the rapporteur and all those who helped with this.
mr president, on 13 september 2005, the so-called european court of justice made a ruling that gave the european commission the right to impose criminal sanctions on the citizens of member states. for the first time since king henry viii ended the jurisdiction of the pope in ecclesiastical matters in england, a power other than the british parliament will have the right to create laws and set the penalties for transgression. the european court of justice is not a court of justice, it is an engine of political integration for the european union. this particular ruling applied only to environmental law, but it has left the way wide open for the commission to apply it to other areas. the commission has ruthlessly exploited the decision of the court in order to publish a list of nine new areas of competence, which gives it the right to create new laws and impose criminal penalties. it has also stated its intention to extend its power to create further criminal offences. when this case first went to the court, 11 of the then 15 member states opposed it; the court ignored them. a commission lawyer has stated that it could compel the british government – and the british parliament – to punish its citizens for something that was not a criminal offence in britain. if a british government were to refuse to implement these criminal offences, then it could be taken to the european court of justice, which would compel it to do so. the court would then act as judge and jury in its own case. so much for the separation of powers of the executive, legislative and judiciary that has protected english freedoms for centuries! the decision by the so-called european court of justice is nothing less than a judicial coup d’état. the court has seized power from the member states and handed it to the commission.
mr president, that was an interesting contribution from mr batten. speaking as a lawyer and a former justice minister in the united kingdom, i have questions to ask mr frattini, and i will do so in an unemotional way, because i think this is a very interesting debate. the competences of the european court of justice are undoubtedly a matter of considerable interest. i am interested in them, because as we develop areas in which the court of justice will have competence, we have to look at it in the relationship that it bears to the courts of the nation states in europe and the competences that they carry in particular areas as well. this is the first opportunity we have had to debate this important ruling and i accept that the commission naturally has an obligation as guardian of the treaties to consider carefully the implications of the judgment. i certainly believe in member state competence and prerogatives when it comes to the general area of criminal law. i am sure that is a view shared by most of the member states. there is an issue regarding the european court of justice approach to jurisprudence, and by and large i think it is fair to say that we would not favour judge-made law, which can in certain circumstances be anti-democratic. i do not think it should be a pretext either for the commission and parliament to seek to carry out an extension of powers which conflict with member states’ rights. however, it is important, particularly as we know that the european court of justice does have a clear competence in many areas, that the parameters of the competences of that court are clearly defined. it is important that it is spelled out very clearly to us how those competences will operate when set alongside those of national courts. i have always been fascinated by the work of the european court of justice. i was in washington recently when justice roberts was going through his grilling to become the chief justice. it was interesting to note that most of his raison d’être was based upon the american constitution, his interpretation of it and his delivery of decisions based upon it. a limited area, you might think, but indeed the areas flowing from it were very extensive indeed. i was deeply impressed by the way that the incoming chief justice dealt with those competences and his relationship with the united states constitution. that is why i think it is now time for us to hear of the ambitions and interests of the european court of justice, how it defines its role for the future and how it does so with a minimum of inconvenience and conflict with the nation-state courts themselves. i will be very interested to hear what mr frattini would like to say on that particular point in his summing-up.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on the subject of reduced rates of vat for labour-intensive services, it is almost a year since parliament approved a report, for which i was rapporteur, that overwhelmingly supported the principle that all member states should have the right to implement the scheme. it is disappointing to see that no progress has been made in the past year. i stated at the time that we should, of course, have equality amongst the member states, but also that we should be pressing the council to make this principle a permanent feature of our hopes of achieving the lisbon strategy. i accept that it can be difficult to quantify the positive benefits in terms of job creation, but i am also convinced that suddenly reapplying vat to labour-intensive services will have a negative impact. i know from personal experience in a small business in the construction sector that having to charge vat at the full rate has an impact on consumer choice. in a significant number of cases consumers choose to go where vat is not applied. this resolution, which all the groups have supported and which will be voted on today, is reasonable. this is the least we can expect from the council if we are not to see a sudden shock being triggered by the end of this scheme, in which i would hope member states can be encouraged to participate more fully so that we can build up data on the beneficial impacts, which i am sure can be quantified.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mr becsey’s report on the minimum standard rate states that the european parliament’s ultimate goal is to contribute to boosting economic productivity and growth rates in the eu. whilst these are noble sentiments, i hope you will allow me to offer a few words of general advice. the current growth projection in 2006 for the eurozone is estimated by the imf at 1.8%, with the largest economies being the worst performers. this weak growth is far from sufficient to sustain the eu’s social programme. the commission suggests that a cut in income tax of 1% of gdp would produce a greater than proportionate rise in growth. a harmonised vat scheme, therefore, should be used to shift from direct to indirect taxation. unfortunately, there is no undisputed evidence that this growth would occur. moreover, this shift implies a redistribution from the poor to the rich, like the common agricultural policy, which rewards landowners rather than farmers. is this really what we want? i should like to suggest that instead of trying to harmonise taxation, our partners in the commission should rather leave it alone. do they not realise that their obsessive pursuit of the illusive level playing field and their inward-looking regulation-led policies are damaging growth rather than stimulating it? the working time directive, the temporary workers directive, the common agricultural policy: are all examples of a european union that refuses to wake up to the reality of global markets, free trade and efficiency, but is instead intent on pursuing an outdated social model, which has no place in the global economy. harmonisation should be the last thing on the agenda of any national government that wishes to see its country’s economic growth rise. in contrast, a dose of genuine deregulation would bring wondrous results.
mr president, i wish particularly to emphasise the need to reimburse non-profit organisations or charities for the vat they pay. i would ask commissioner kovács to reiterate his support for this idea, which he expressed at a conference of the european charities committee on vat here in brussels two months ago. charities like the home farm trust – which supports 900 people with learning disabilities and has shops in braintree, colchester, newmarket, saffron walden and sudbury in my own constituency – cannot recover huge sums of money as they do not charge vat, and provide their services heavily subsidised or for free. studies in ireland and denmark, as well as the uk, show that this eats up some 4% of charities’ total expenditure. given that charities almost invariably provide services at a local level, they are a prime case for subsidiarity and national decision-making on the vat rates they pay. this principle has already been accepted by the european parliament in the randzio-plath report, and i call for the commission’s support in the decisions to be taken before the end of this year. without it charities will lose millions of euros each year.
rapporteur. – mr president, i very much welcome this directive from the commission to control and monitor avian influenza in the eu. we need a strong contingency plan to keep the disease out of the eu and if we are unfortunate enough for the disease to enter europe we will need the right procedures in place to stamp it out quickly. what is new in this directive is the monitoring of low pathogen avian influenza for the first time in europe. i very much support this because the low pathogen form has the potential to mutate into the highly pathogenic form of the disease, which is highly contagious and fatal for poultry. i disagree with the commission on one point, however. once low pathogen avian influenza is found in poultry, that poultry needs to be disposed of very quickly so that the potential for the disease to spread and mutate into a highly pathogenic form is stopped immediately. the directive maintains that meat from poultry found to have lpai is safe to enter the food chain. i do not argue with the scientific advice, but the processing and marketing of this meat will be almost impossible. furthermore, it would destroy public confidence in the very high quality of european poultry meat. i ask all members in this house to support the amendments put forward by the ppe-de group in order to establish a common sense approach to stamping out lpai in the european union and maintain full public and consumer support for the industry. while i am on my feet, i would like to add an oral amendment presented to me by mr ebner, which i fully support. i understand he has spoken to other groups in parliament and gained their support. it is to involve hunters in the monitoring for lpai. the commissioner was also supportive of this last night. the oral amendment is to insert a recital 11b (new), which would read: ‘whereas hunters in europe should be encouraged to assist in the monitoring of avian influenza outbreaks in wild birds by informing the competent authorities when they suspect that birds may be infected’. i would like to put that to the house.
mr president, i wish to make an oral amendment to amendment 19. i realise that the socialists may wish to have a split vote on this. it is a clarification point on trips and trims. you might say that we have been tripped up by the acronym of trims. they are the wrong way round. i shall read the amendment with the technical changes: ‘calls for a permanent solution to be found, as a matter of urgency, in the field of trims – trade-related investment measures – and of trips – trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights – to ensure access to medicines for countries with no manufacturing capacity facing public health concerns’. it is a question of turning those two words around.
mr president, in the interests of making the wording of paragraph 5, indent 2 clearer and less clumsy, i would like to replace: ‘undertake political reforms leading to democracy and the rule of law starting through a multiparty system and the right for all currents of opinions to express their views’, the ending of which is rather clumsy, with the following: ‘to draw up and implement as soon as possible all the necessary reforms required to democratise the country, guarantee the peaceful expression of political opposition and ensure a speedy holding of multiparty elections under international monitoring with a view to national reconciliation’.
in writing. i voted in favour of sending this flawed proposal on development cooperation and economic cooperation back to the committee. since the commission has now made it clear that it does not intend to come forward with a new proposal, substantial amendments will be needed to ensure that parliament can maintain its right of scrutiny over the formulation and implementation of development policy. i believe it is vital that the european parliament stand united on this issue in fighting for co-decision over the development cooperation policy, currently undermined in this proposal. poverty-alleviation should rightly remain the central focus of any development cooperation instrument and therefore further discussion is needed by the relevant committees (development committee and international trade committee) in this context. i remain unconvinced of the merits for developing countries of splitting the development and economic chapters of this instrument, since the majority of eu development policy has a joint legal basis in the treaty as development assistance and external economic cooperation.
in writing. this regulation marks an important milestone for improving access to medicines in developing countries and it has my full support. it moves the eu beyond the current stalemate at the wto regarding the granting of 'compulsory licences' to pharmaceutical products to combat diseases which afflict millions of people in the developing world. its adoption means that the eu, the world's largest single market, can now provide not only the vital medicines needed by poor people at affordable prices, but can support the all-important development of local manufacture through the transfer of technology and know-how to public health systems in developing countries. i particularly endorse the attempts by the rapporteur and draftsman to extend the applicability of this regulation to non-wto members, of which at least 40 are developing countries. attempts to ensure that this new regulation can also allow for the important role of ngos and un agencies as providers of healthcare treatments also have my backing.
in writing. i welcome this proposed directive on measures for the control of avian influenza. the proposed directive aims to update eu measures based on lessons learned from recent epidemic scares and new scientific knowledge on how the disease spreads and risks to human health. the existing directive only establishes control measures against the 'highly pathogenic' avian influenza viruses, i.e. those causing major disease outbreaks in poultry and that may also occassionally infect humans. however, there is evidence that these highly pathogenic viruses actually originate from the so-called 'low - pathogenic' avian influenza viruses as a result of virus mutation. in order to prevent major avian influenza outbreaks, the new legislation would also establish compulsory surveillance and control measures against the low pathogenic avian influenza viruses that can be transmitted to domestic poultry from wild birds, such as ducks and geese. the low pathogenic viruses cannot be eradicated from wild birds, but the infectionof domestic poultry can be effectively controlled and virus mutation into the risky forms of the virus can be prevented. i fully back the aim of the new legislation as it will ensure that the most appropriate surveillance and prevention measures against avian flu are in place and that the health risks, economic costs and the negative ....... (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. i welcome this report which looks at the previous national strategies of the introduction of the euro and suggests how they can be improved and implemented in the member states who may wish to enter in to the euro zone, as and when they decide. i hope one day it will be relevant to the uk.
in writing. i support this report which agrees with the commission proposal to extend the 'annex k' experiment of applying reduced rates of vat to certain labour intensive services. i regret that the european parliament has an opinion on vat and that this issue keeps being blocked by the council. the controversy surrounding this proposal is that if the council fails to reach an agreement before the end of december, the experimental reduced rates system will cease to be legal in 9 member states. this does not affect the uk and the uk applies their reduced rates through annex h. nevertheless, i would be disappointed if this scheme collapses.
in writing. this report which i support, develops the cross border vat refund system for smes stating time limits for data to be received and monies to be refunded. i hope it leads to a reduction of the administrative burden on smes
in writing. i voted for a statement on the wto ministerial conference which sends a strong signal out that development should remain the focus of discussions in the doha round. this means that richer players, such as the eu, should complete the necessary reforms to end distorting subsidies in agriculture and open our agricultural markets to products from poorer, agriculture-dependent countries. at the same time, no unfair demands should be made on the very poorest countries to open their domestic markets in other areas. there is a great deal at stake in hong kong, not least the need to demonstrate our commitment to encouraging trade between developing countries. south-south trading remains an important vehicle for long-term development of countries as 70% of tariffs paid by developing countries are paid to other developing countries. further, developing countries stand to make great gains in this area since trade between developing countries is estimated to be growing twice as fast as global trade and already represents some 40% of developing country exports.
in writing. i welcome this resolution on the olympic truce in the context of the turin winter olympics 2006. the truce is an essential symbol of the olympic spirit and one that must be retained and respected.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. i believe more must be done to encourage young people to take an active part in sport. we should also do more to encourage women to take part in previously male dominated activities. finally, although not an eu issue we must encourage member states to do more to retain green spaces and playing fields in major urban conurbations.
mr president, i would be pleased to justify the request very briefly. my group had sought a motion on hong kong in view of the recent statements there by the government of the territory, which suggest that there is not to be any movement towards universal suffrage. i think the house will be aware of the extremely large demonstration that took place in hong kong ten days ago – the hong kong people demonstrating in favour of universal suffrage and full democracy. this house has always supported them in the past and it seems to me a good opportunity to use this occasion to do so again.
mr president, my group should like to propose changing the title to: ‘ethiopia and new border conflicts’. as the house is aware, the problems in this region relate not only to ethiopia but also very much to other border conflicts in the area, and it seemed to us that we might extend the scope of the resolution to take account of that.
mr president, at this time of looming budget crises and an increasingly depressing outlook for the hong kong talks, i would like to bring to the attention of the house an eu success story. the internet domain name ‘.eu’ has been available for businesses across europe to register for since only 7 december and there have already been 100 000 applications from across our european continent. to my mind, this demonstrates an interest in a european designation for our companies and i look forward to many more applications when citizens can individually register in spring next year. as a proud scot, i would like to see a specific scottish presence in cyberspace and i believe your own country, mr president, has shown us the way with the ‘puntcat’ designation, which you so recently achieved for catalonia. i would like to lend my support to the ‘.sco’ campaign, as a wider presence for scottish language and culture in cyberspace could only be helpful for us. i look forward to us joining you in cyberspace, if not geographically.
mr president, i recently monitored the presidential election in kazakhstan with a group of senior british politicians and academics. i have some experience in these matters, having monitored the election in indonesia last year, which was probably the most complicated election the world had ever seen. the british group came to the conclusion that the elections in kazakhstan were free and without coercion. several other groups from belgium, france, the cis, the usa and indonesia came to the same conclusion. the spokesman of one of the opposition candidates said after the election that the opposition had blown it by concentrating on personalities rather than policies. we completely disagreed with the conclusions of the osce monitoring group, which produced an expensive, dismissive and academically pompous report condemning the election process. the osce also contradicted the previous statement of the members of this house following last year’s parliamentary election, which concluded that the kazakh electorate is now sophisticated and beyond coercion or intimidation. i believe the osce report was influenced by its internal bureaucracy on the future chairmanship of the organisation. bureaucrats should not attempt to play politics, nor try to dictate who the chairman should be. it will bring the osce into disrepute, a state of affairs not desired by this house. i would now call on this house to have an inquiry into the workings of the osce.
mr president, italian colleagues will know that, a few days, ago, the international football player marc zoro had to leave the football pitch because of persistent racist abuse. this is something within the beautiful game, the european game, which is making the game ugly. every day we see incidents across all our member states of racist abuse: some of it organised, some of it isolated. there is no country in the european union which is exempt from this phenomenon. uefa and meps are determined to stamp it out. we have practical measures, working with the media, to stamp out this cancer from the game. recently, italian television played some of its matches in black and white rather than in colour to make the point to italian society and to all of european society that we must not tolerate racism in football. we have the world cup next year: let us send a unified message from this house that we will not tolerate the beautiful game becoming ugly.
mr president, early yesterday morning i was present at the unprecedented fire near hemel hempstead. it is perhaps worth recording that not a single fatality was reported as a result of this extraordinary incident. i would hope that the commission might find itself in a position to liaise with the british authorities when it comes to investigating what might have been the cause, so that any wisdom that emerges could be shared throughout our 25 member states. let me, on behalf of my constituents, send my thanks to the emergency services – firemen, the police and ambulance crews – and indeed to local residents, who behaved, as you might imagine, with tremendous courage and dignity. those british people who queued up at petrol stations, fearing that there might be a shortage of petrol, behaved with rather less dignity.
rapporteur. – mr president, i use this time as rapporteur to report to the house the decision of the committee on legal affairs. i make no secret that this was a difficult case for the committee. it was one where our colleague, mr gollnisch, came to us to ask us, as a parliament, to give him the benefit of this parliament’s immunity. i should also like to thank him for his courtesy and cooperation with the committee’s inquiries. mr gollnisch has found himself prosecuted under french law – the law of his home member state – for words he used at a press conference which, it is alleged, form something like holocaust denial. the committee considered this matter over several meetings and finally came to the decision, by a large and persuasive majority, that it would not be appropriate in this case to give him the benefit of this house’s immunity. the committee felt that the circumstances in which he had used the words complained of by the french prosecutor were not circumstances where it could be said fairly and squarely that he was only exercising his mandate as a member of this house or carrying out his duties as a member of this house. that being the case, it was not within the remit of the committee to enquire any further, and the committee made its decision on that basis. therefore, we decline to give mr gollnisch the benefit of parliamentary immunity of this house, and that is the committee’s recommendation to the presidency and to the house.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular, the rapporteur, mr blokland, for this report. today, the existing community legislation on batteries only covers a small part of all the portable batteries sold annually in the european union. this has hindered the setting-up of efficient national collection and recycling schemes. consequently, many batteries placed on the community market today still risk ending up in the environment, in incineration or in landfills. to address that problem, the commission presented a new legislative proposal for batteries in 2003 that would extend the scope of existing community legislation from batteries containing certain dangerous substances to all batteries placed on the community market. in its proposal, the commission introduced the concept of a ‘closed-loop system’, on the basis of which all batteries would have to be collected and recycled and their metals re-introduced into the economic cycle. at the same time, the proposal aimed to contribute to a proper functioning of the internal market for batteries and create a level playing field of all economic operators involved. at first reading, the european parliament did not embrace this concept of a closed loop. instead, parliament preferred to have a ban on certain heavy metals used in batteries. the council also considered that the proposed closed-loop system would be difficult to achieve in practice and favoured a ban on the use of cadmium in portable batteries. the commission has accepted the overall package of the common position as a well-balanced package, on the condition that the level of environmental protection should not be lowered compared to the policy measures contained in the commission’s original proposal. even though the commission has embraced the common position as it stands, there are several issues that could benefit from further improvements, in particular regarding the definitions of different battery types and the collection targets. however, the commission remains convinced that the dual legal basis in the common position is the right approach and will not give rise to problems foreseen by some in parliament. i am confident that the rest of the codecision process will allow a further fine-tuning of the right mix of policy measures, which are needed to protect our environment from battery pollution in the most eco-efficient way.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – mr president, my group welcomes the batteries directive as an important first attempt to take these potentially environmentally damaging substances out of the waste stream. starting first with the collection targets, my group doubts whether there is any point in pretending that many member states can go further than the collection rate set out in the council common position. let us be frank about this: as the commission impact assessment states, only six member states currently have a national system of collecting small batteries for recycling – austria, belgium, france, germany, holland and sweden. austria has achieved 40% collection after 14 years. the common position calls for a collection rate of 25% after 6 years and 40% after 10 years. in the context of what we know about the countries that do collect batteries, that seems reasonable. the report now calls for higher targets: 40% after 6 years and 50% after 12 years. from the point of view of member states which, for whatever reason, have never given battery recycling a high priority, these totals are unrealistic and, if set, will simply not be reached. this is neither the time nor the place for gesture politics. delaying the directive by wrangling over unrealistic targets does nobody any good. secondly, the rapporteur is moving his amendment 42, calling for bans on lead and cadmium in power tool batteries. we believe that any such moves need to comply in the first instance with the common approach to impact assessment, recently agreed between the commission, council and parliament. in this instance, parliament, at my instigation, asked outside experts to draw up an impact assessment, but this was itself limited in its scope. we need a full assessment of the social, environmental and economic impact of any such bans before we agree to introduce them. until we have that full assessment, it would be irresponsible to follow the rapporteur’s lead, because we would be law-making in the dark. finally, as far as the legal base is concerned, we support the proposal that the directive should be based on articles 175 and 95. we believe that basing this directive on article 175 alone would run the risk of distorting the market, because individual countries could strengthen the prohibitions contained in it. i am confident that this directive represents a major change of direction and of public habits for many european countries. we should have turned to specific battery collection long ago. i hope we can now put this proposal into operation as soon as possible.
mr president, i very much welcome this legislation which, i think, will help clean up our environment. however, i also want to comment on the three key issues that colleagues have commented on, the first of which concerns prohibitions and in particular compromise amendment 42. the problem i have is that it still involves the idea of an automatic ban on nickel cadmium batteries after four years; the commission is not asked to carry out an impact assessment to see what we should do. i do not agree with an automatic ban. if we are going to ban things, then we should do so in full knowledge. we should also do things that are proportionate: there is cadmium in our atmosphere but less than 1% is caused by batteries – much more comes from pesticides and other uses – so we must have legislation that is proportionate to what we are trying to achieve. we need a study on this issue before we move to any further legislation. i will support the common position. as regards the targets, i agree with what speakers have said about realistic targets. there is no point pretending we can automatically run to big leaps forward when in fact only a handful of countries collect batteries at all. we need to get targets down to a level that countries can meet at some point in the future and work out how to get there. someone pointed out that, after 9 years, belgium has reached a level of 56% and austria, after 14 years, still lies somewhere at around 40%. finally on the legal base issue, i shall be supporting the rapporteur and the socialist group on a legal base, but we have to bang heads together on this issue of articles 175 and 95 because we have kept coming up against this issue in environmental legislation over the past few months. we should be looking at this and having the legal experts from the three institutions talking about the legal base. we do not want to see legislation on the environment that undermines higher standards in those member states that choose to have them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i congratulate my colleague mrs fourtou on her balanced report. we in the alde group will support our own amendments, of course, but not other amendments that seek to weaken this report further. this is about citizens’ rights. more importantly, perhaps, this is a right that goes to the centre of the european union. freedom of movement in the european union has been a real success story, and when our citizens choose to exercise that right by living in – and often retiring to – another member state, they deserve our protection and support. many of them make the biggest financial investment they will ever make in their lives by purchasing real property. that is what happened to citizens in one region of one member state. they have come to us in their thousands to explain that something has gone disastrously wrong. the value of their property is being wiped out by a development control law that does not seem to be working. we have produced, i believe, a balanced report that will continue to put pressure on the authorities in valencia. there are three elements that we need to achieve. we need to make sure that you, commissioner, continue to enforce eu law where you can; we need to make sure that those citizens who have come to us can benefit from some form of compensation or redress mechanism – and for that we must continue to exert pressure on the spanish authorities. i must also ask you this, commissioner: we ask our citizens to move and live elsewhere, and we do not want to see this kind of scenario again. so, without interfering in member states’ land law – which is their own affair – can we please look for some sort of advice, guidance and information for our fellow citizens who buy property in another member state? we do not want to see this again. we do not want to nanny our citizens, but we want to support them when they exercise the right to freedom of movement that is so precious to all of us.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, while we sympathise greatly with the citizens who find themselves in this invidious position, we in ukip believe that the situation in valencia over land grab is one which should have been dealt with by bilateral agreements between spain and the individual countries concerned. instead, i suspect the european parliament is once again using a sledgehammer to miss the nut. town planning is a field that needs to remain at local level in order for the needs of local areas to fall on understanding ears. a centralised policy would compound, not ameliorate, the problem. we have seen that time and time again with so-called european projects. let me remind you of a few examples. firstly, we have the common fisheries policy, with its seriously damaging quota system. hailed as an environmental project, it has done near irreparable damage to fish stocks. a huge proportion of fish processing plants in the united kingdom have been forced to close and local fishing economies have been devastated. and how can we talk about disasters without mentioning the cap, which created wine lakes and butter mountains and is now giving commissioner mandelson as much of a headache as it is the farmers in the developing world? in essence, chirac, by protecting the little french farmer, is holding the world to ransom. instead of stabilising the prices of primary product markets, the eu is harming the very people it says it wishes to help. the situation facing those non-spanish nationals in valencia, including many uk citizens, should be dealt with on a government-to-government basis. i lament the fact that the british government has failed to reach a bilateral agreement with spain on this issue. instead, we see the eu octopus bureaucracy once again using private misfortune to plunder the sovereignty of member states.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank members for their comments. the sheer number of people who have supported the petitions covered by mrs fourtou’s report demonstrates that the application of the lrau law in valencia is raising problems. as i indicated at the beginning of this debate, most of the problems encountered fall outside the scope of community law. while the commission understands the concerns raised, it is not in a position to provide a solution. where problems of compatibility with community law are identified, the commission will not fail to act and will take the necessary steps aimed at rectifying the situation. this is the case for public procurement aspects of the lrau law. we have identified a number of problems in this area, and infringement proceedings against spain were opened. we are pursuing these procedures with a view to ensuring a correct application of community procurement legislation. colleagues in various departments of the commission have looked at the report covering areas such as environmental policy, justice and home affairs, consumer policy and regional policy. it would be wrong to raise expectations that, in these areas, the enforcement of community law will offer the petitioners a solution to the problems they have encountered.
the right to property is a fundamental right. property owners in valencia have had their property and land confiscated on a massive scale and built on by often unscrupulous property developers and local authorities, acting with the connivance of the valencian authorities under the terms of the lrau. petitions to the european parliament and two fact-finding missions attest to this fact. this is totally unacceptable in a free society. there should be a moratorium on all current and planned urbanisation projects in the region until new legislation which fully respects property rights is adopted by the valencian parliament. for those that have lost land and property to development by valencian authorities a new law should establish as a matter of urgency a legal administrative structure with the power to review development plans and to assess proper compensation for victims. property owners who have lost out through collusion between property developers and the local authorities in valencia must be properly compensated. while i welcome the valencian authorities reviewing the policy of land appropriation, there is still a need for justice for citizens who have already lost land and property.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group is supporting the second reading compromise with the council because it represents a step in the right direction, even though it does not go quite as far as we would have liked. in particular we were disappointed that the target for energy-efficiency savings has been set at only 9% over 9 years, instead of the 11.5% proposed by parliament at first reading. we would also have liked the targets to be binding, but it is good that the compromise at least lays down certain mandatory actions, including public procurement requirements and the introduction of energy-efficiency action plans, which will be used to measure member states’ progress towards the energy-saving targets. i would like to say a particular word about the metering and billing proposals in article 13. these are essential because they establish the fundamental principle that consumers have a right to information about how much energy they are using. it is only when people have such knowledge that they can start to adapt their behaviour and choose energy-saving options. i am very pleased that the compromise text requires electricity and gas customers to be provided with individual meters that accurately reflect their actual energy consumption and give information on the time of use. the text also includes a requirement for information on energy use and cost to be provided with customers’ bills and crucially it requires billing to be provided on the basis of actual consumption, not estimated consumption, and to be frequent enough to enable people to work out for themselves how to be more energy efficient. now that bills will have to be based on actual consumption, utility companies will no longer be able to issue estimated bill after estimated bill, which has led to widespread debt problems. i believe this directive marks the start of a new era in which across europe we will all become much wiser about the way we use energy and i hope the house will support the compromise wholeheartedly. i thank the rapporteur, mrs rothe, very much indeed for all the work she has put in to get this agreement.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, one of the principles of good taxation is certainty, both of the bases of assessment and the tax rate. yet the only certainty about the proposals to harmonise the base for company tax is that they create uncertainty. if the negotiations follow the pattern of development of the european company statute, for instance, it will be decades before we have a settled position. continuing changes in tax rates and tax rules and the prospect of future changes are bad for business. in this report, as in early commission reports on this subject, it is accepted as a matter of faith that the single market must be pursued without question, with the elusive level playing field as the means to achieve it. if we are to harmonise the base for corporate tax, why insist that tax rates should not be harmonised too? it does not make sense. like mr konrad, i suspect that uniform rates are on the future agenda, despite the denials. there is much to be gained from simplifying tax rules in the individual member states, particularly the older ones, but this has to be a matter for those member states. if the member states see a need for cross-border cooperation on tax matters, this too should be their concern and not that of the commission or the european court of justice. my recommendation is leave it alone. then the countries that prosper and attract investment will be those with the lowest tax rates and those with the simplest and least bureaucratic methods of assessment and collection. if taxation is to be made more business friendly, this will be at the initiative of the individual member states and driven by market forces. i fear that coercion by the european union is the wrong way to achieve tax reform.
mr president, it is quite clear to me that the commission’s proposal is indisputably an assault upon taxation as an exclusive competence of member states. a common tax base would inexorably lead to common tax rates. by the stealth of this proposal, it is clear that brussels aspires to replace the nation state as the deciding authority on company taxation. national control of corporation tax has been a key weapon in the arsenal of many countries in fighting for international investment. estonia, with its growth economy, well illustrates the point, as does the experience of the republic of ireland. thus, harmonisation of tax would rob member states of the right to adjust their tax regimes to suit their own needs and would bestow across europe yet another stultifying one-size-fits-all suppression of national initiative. for economic growth, independence and freedom of action are essential with more, not less, national flexibility. for example, corporation tax in my area of northern ireland should be radically reduced as a means of stimulating investment, thereby moving us away from over-dependence on the public sector.
mr president, in large measure i am pleased to support mr bersani’s report. he has been very helpful in agreeing compromises with us in the ppe-de group. i will, however, support a couple of group amendments to delete the last clause of recital i – regarding unfair tax competition – and paragraph 2, also regarding tax competition. this proposal has nothing to do with harmonising tax rates. i want there to be competition between member states in terms of rates of tax. however, i believe that a common base for corporate tax will be in the interests of competition between member states and to the benefit of enterprises in the european single market. only with a common tax base will it be possible to compare the relative fiscal advantage of locating or investing in a particular member state rather than another. it will put pressure on member states to provide an attractive tax environment for our businesses and to be efficient and careful in their public spending and budgeting. some finance ministers might complain that it could limit their ability to provide particular incentives, for example for research and development. i would consider these to be consistent with a common tax base so long as they are fully transparent. they would be no different from varying general rates of corporate tax and should be permitted within clear and simple rules. i would ask the commissioner to confirm that such clear and transparent tax incentives would still be permitted under any proposals he brings forward. with that clear understanding, i am pleased to support and congratulate mr bersani on his report.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, and i appreciate the need for maximum preparation time if the year of equal opportunities is going to have any meaningful impact. that constricted timing has meant that there are one or two areas, as my colleague has just indicated, where we might have liked to tighten things up a little more but have not been able to. we all hope that the year will provide an incentive to those member states that are being particularly tardy on implementing the article 13 directives to make progress. those directives reflect the more positive dimension of the european union and people need to be aware of their rights. as we have seen on issues such as the working time directive, people all too often do not realise that they have rights, let alone that they can enforce them. i agree with mrs roure that equal opportunities are an important factor in social inclusion and that we need to combat bigotry and prejudice at all levels, whether that is on the street or in government, as it prevents so many people from reaching their potential and prevents society benefiting from their talents. i also echo the comments made about the money being totally inadequate. when you think about the amount that we, as political parties, spend on our election campaigns to try and persuade people of something different, it is going to take more than the money in the current budget to persuade people that others in their society have rights which should be recognised as well.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the committee on international trade’s draftsman, mr sjöstedt, who is on hong kong with virtually all the other members of the committee apart from me. i am the only one left here. the commission has requested urgency for an increase in commitment appropriations to georgia for 2006-2007, to the sum of eur 10.5 million. the commission has already come to us asking for urgency at a very late date, on the issue of bosnia-herzegovina. frankly, if we were dealing only with the issue of the commission, we would say ‘no’ to urgency, but in this case the people who would lose out are the people of georgia. it has taken the commission 10 months to carry out an impact assessment, without even warning parliament that the issue might be on the agenda. however, we welcome the ‘velvet revolution’. we recognise that the georgians need increased help. on that basis we will support urgency, but warn the commission that, if it tries to do this again, we may have reached the limit of our tolerance.
mr president, i would like to congratulate all those who have worked hard to put in place the 2006 budget, especially our rapporteur, mr pittella. i have just three points for the commission and council to reflect on. firstly, every year we have a similar struggle to agree the eu budget. it is increasingly a challenging task due to ever more exceptional demands on the eu at home and abroad. at the same time, the traditional priorities continue to require as much spending as before. i do not think, therefore, that we should worry if the budget requires a heated and lengthy debate to achieve a compromise solution. however, we should be concerned by the fact that, after devoting time, money and effort debating, negotiating and agreeing the budget, we then fail to use the funds. this is totally unacceptable and i know that many others, including mr garriga polledo, have made this point. i would ask the commissioner to take full responsibility for improving implementation, not only in the programmes that the commission champions, but also in respecting parliament’s will. the fiercely negotiated funds must have an impact on the lives of eu citizens and it is payments that have the most direct effect. my second point is that collectively we need to be more aware of our public image and the importance of demonstrating the collaborative working habits that drive the eu project and inspire confidence in the european union. these are currently clearly lacking. i would like the commission to note that parliament has improved resources for communication policy. now it is the responsibility of commission officials to be more imaginative. in this age of the competitive mass communications market, the need to sell ourselves and our eu vision and deliver a clear, simple and compelling message is absolutely imperative. that goes for parliament too. outdated, incomprehensible legacies such as our travelling circuses do nothing to help us win this game. thirdly, a word on heading 4. as the chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and saarc, i am deeply disappointed with the reduction in amounts for asia, even with the additional flexibility. the council needs to think seriously about this dysfunctional heading. we have a knee-jerk reaction to major disasters. we have commitments to the mdg global health funds. we do not, however, have adequate resources. let this be a priority for the council presidency.
mr president, since i oppose virtually everything that the european union proposes to spend money on during the budget year of 2006, i cannot be expected to support this report or its motion for a resolution. the european union is a self-perpetuating mega-bureaucracy that has carte blanche to finance its own programmes. i particularly oppose the allocation of funds for the brainwashing of young people, referred to in this report as being used for advancing the idea of europe. i believe that even the most backward of students will be aware that the continent of europe has been around for quite some time and is a bit more than an idea. bringing secondary school pupils to this institution for all-expenses-paid visits, during which they will be given disingenuous one-sided briefings about the wonders of the european union, is a crude brainwashing exercise, as is the flooding of educational establishments with equally one-sided literature. the report’s repeated references to the now almost wholly discredited lisbon strategy hardly add to its credibility. i would urge any member of this institution who generally believes in democracy and accountability to the electorate to vote against this budget and any other documents that purport to legitimise it.
mr president, the member states are in reality the eu’s paymasters without discretion. whatever the arguments about the budgets, they pay and then argue about how it is all to be spent, which is not real budgeting in any sense that i understand. that is why the argument about the british rebate is about politics and not proper financial management. it is a continuing running sore, only because mrs thatcher was foolish enough to agree that it should be paid back by the member states to what is now the fourth largest economy in the world and, since enlargement, it comes from some of the smallest and poorest in europe. had that been a deduction made in london and a net sum paid over, the argument would never have arisen. whatever the budget, the european project is stuttering, unsure what to do about the faltering eurozone and unable to come to terms with anglo-saxon enterprise that the countries of asia have made their own. you have big problems and many of them are of your own design.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
amendments 1 and 2 were put to the vote by roll call. 309 members voted in favour, but we need 367 votes in favour, under qualified majority, for them to be adopted.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have worked so hard and effectively to achieve today’s first-reading compromise package with the council and the commission: in particular, mrs wallis, mr wieland, mr lehne, and mrs berger from my own political group. the uk presidency has been very cooperative and has taken on board many of parliament’s amendments, which allows us now to vote on this first reading package of the general enacting terms of the european payment order. that will now help us to speed up and simplify cross-border payments for business. it will also assist debt recovery. in short, we know that companies that do not get paid are at risk of collapsing, with knock-on effects for staff and suppliers. a lack of enforcement systems for payment undermines the internal market and business confidence. there are, however, some outstanding technical issues involved in drawing up the annexes and finalising our recitals that need to be resolved with the austrian presidency. in addition, mrs wallis has asked us to look at a technical legal issue related to the ‘cross-border’ definition. i look forward to working with the austrian presidency and finalising this very pragmatic law that will assist businesses and citizens in recovering debts, and to a full plenary debate with the council and commission and a vote in the new year. i urge members, therefore, to vote for the agreed negotiated package that is before us today at first reading.
mr president, i should like through you to ask mr pomés ruiz why, of the eight or ten people he nominated, only one could be a woman. (mixed reactions)
your question speaks for itself, mr evans.
mr romagnoli, you do not belong to a political group; you are a non-attached member. you are therefore not in a position to make that request. it just shows how important it is to belong to a group, especially a large one! (laughter and applause)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ukip cannot support amendments that are tabled with the purpose of increasing restrictions on member states. ukip take environmental issues very seriously, however, we cannot accept that the eu impose legislation on member states and believe these decisions should be taken at national level.
in writing. i support the views and objectives of the batteries directive, but two points must be borne in mind. first, recycling targets must be realistic and achievable and practical for both retailers and the public, which is why i did not support some amendments tabled by the rapporteur and others. second, it is clear that nickel-cadmium batteries only contribute between 1% and 3% of cadmium in the environment compared to 27% from fertilizers. the drive to outlaw them seems driven by a refusal to confront this statistic in the interests of certain national battery manufacturers and the inability to confront public misconceptions as to the real situation of cadmium pollution. i have no problem burdening industry where there are real advantages to improving environmental standards, but such perverse decisions like today's only threatens support for future environmental legislation and public support.
in writing. mr president, i voted in the way that i did on various amendments on the blokland report on batteries, accumulators and their waste because i believe that this directive will reduce heavy metal waste from batteries and improve recycling in my london constituency. i support the prohibitions in the common position and believe that any further prohibitions must be the subject of full impact assessments. i also believe that recycling targets should be realistic and achievable and collection systems practicable for retailers and the public and cannot therefore support some of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and other colleagues.
in writing. there is no doubt that we need to reduce pollution from batteries and improve recycling of batteries. nickel-cadmium batteries are particularly polluting. the compromise on nickel-cadmium is realistic giving a four-year breathing space before a full ban would be introduced. this would mean that the power tool industry would have time to introduce alternatives which are less polluting. i hope that there will be no headlines tomorrow saying that the eu bans power tools.
in writing. in this vote i abstained on amendment 11 because of london constituency concerns.
you have had one minute, mr gollnisch. these explanations of vote are for one minute only. one of the remarks you made and for which your immunity has been lifted was 'it is up to historians to discuss whether the gas chambers existed'. that remark encourages me once again to go and visit the camp of natzweiler-struthof in the vosges mountains, which i shall do in january. (protests from mr gollnisch)this is not the assemblée nationale, mr gollnisch. it is the european parliament. the floor now goes to mr vanhecke.
i should like to point out that i find mr gollnisch’s remarks offensive.
in writing. ukip meps have voted against this report - not because they do not have sympathy and understanding for those property owners in valencia who have been deprived of their property rights under an unfair law - but because they strongly disagree with the eu charter for human rights which does not have legal force but is used as an argument in the report for eu intervention in this matter.
in writing. we as a group refute that the eu can continue in this way outside the remit of any treaty which would open jurisprudential breaches in order to ingest itself in town and urban policies, architechtural issues of member states and the financial situations of property owners and renters. in any case it is illegal to give legal character contraining to a text of a political nature. (consideration l) this is why we have voted against this report.
in writing. i welcome the work of the commission in this area. however, i do not want to pre-empt the outcome of the eu technical working group which has been set up to look at this issue by calling for any legislation in this field. i believe that the eu must look at all methods of attracting investment and is not convinced that a harmonised tax base will attract further foreign investment particularly to the city of london.
in writing. the eplp welcomes the work of the commission in this area however does not want to pre-empt the outcome of the eu technical working group which has been set up to look at this issue by calling for any legislation in this field. the eplp believes that the eu must look at all methods of attracting investment and is not convinced that a harmonised tax base will attract further foreign investment. the eplp opinion is that this harmonisation of tax base could possibly lead to higher rates, with harmonisation at a later stage which is not desired. the eplp supports enhanced cooperation if member states wish to pursue this consolidated tax base approach, as long as the proper procedures are followed and precedence is not set for future tax cooperation.
mr president, the present national variation that mr clarke says gives an open goal to criminals will persist and even grow under the council conservative-socialist deal. it is a pretext for gold plating to allow, for instance, the 15 years storage that poland wants, a wider list of data used for purposes far removed from law enforcement and access for any public or private agency, and all with a convenient brussels stamp of approval. in contrast, the agreement of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is a reasonable and proportionate response to fighting terrorism. if meps tomorrow accept the council take-it-or-leave-it deal, they will have fallen victim to a vast con trick. this parliament could give up any pretence to care either about civil liberties or about european business competitiveness. it is not too late for individual members to rebel against the sell-out agreement by their leaders to a charter for mass surveillance and state snooping. finally, i deplore the attacks on mr alvaro; he delivered a resounding near-consensus in committee. to use his three day absence on an official trip to israel at the end of a phone and fax is a cheap alibi for a stab in the back by mrs klamt and mrs roure.
madam president, the reasons given for this directive are the usual ones about the fight against terrorism and organised crime, but this is a red herring. governments already use the most sophisticated means to monitor national and international communications. the united states of america has the echelon system that enables it to intercept every form of international communication. the british government has gchq in cheltenham. terrorists and organised criminals are well aware of this and do everything they can to avoid being tracked and caught by these means. this directive is really about formalising the creation of a surveillance society and the control of individuals. more and more powers are being concentrated in the hands of the state, at the expense of the individual. the uk presidency is trying to use this parliament to implement a policy that has already been rejected by the uk parliament. this directive represents another step on the road to a police state. i hope this parliament will reject it.
madam president, this is a very difficult debate because, interestingly, groups that are normally homogeneous are split; political allies who normally work with one another are split. i have absolute respect for those who have their reservations about that which is being proposed. i ask that they have respect for those of us who believe that this is a way of protecting fundamental freedoms. it is important to restate that this is not about the data within the calls or on the internet; it is about traffic data, and it is arguably to allow us to protect fundamental freedoms. of course, there are costs; there are costs to businesses, there are costs to each and every one of us, but the cost if we do nothing is cataclysmic. we have to deal with the real and imagined threats. there are people who use the internet to entrap young women and children into prostitution rings. if we can break one prostitution ring with this directive, that alone would have been worth it. i and my group are proud that we have achieved a compromise that delivers and protects fundamental freedoms.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, the presidency warmly welcomes this debate. it emphasises the high priority which all eu institutions attach to the promotion and protection of human rights. it also recognises the immense importance of communicating the eu’s policies and actions in support of human rights clearly and confidently to the outside world. the then general affairs council decided in december 1998, on the 50th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, that the european union should enhance its actions on human rights, and that it should draw up an annual report on human rights. this year’s report – covering the period from 1 july 2004 to 30 june 2005 – is the seventh such annual report. its purpose is to provide an overview of the work of the european union, through its institutions, in promoting human rights. it is, obviously, only able to highlight those areas where eu action has been particularly significant during the reporting period. it does not seek to be fully comprehensive and it does not try to duplicate information which is already available from, for example, eu websites, or to provide an account of action taken by individual member states. but it does provide european union citizens, civil society partners and governments and human rights defenders in third countries with a regular, accessible overview of eu concerns, priorities and actions. much of the report focuses on the european union’s promotion of human rights and democratisation as part of its common foreign and security policy. but, domestically, the european union must also be consistent and coherent with the policies that it promotes abroad. we all recognise that, while much has been done to promote human rights within the european union, there is still scope to improve. the report therefore sets out significant internal developments, including the continuing work to establish an eu fundamental rights agency. and the chapters on thematic priorities, such as the human rights of women or human rights and business, include developments within the european union, as well as those abroad and in multilateral organisations. the report also provides information on eu instruments and initiatives in third countries, for example, the eu’s human rights dialogues with china and iran, and the new human rights consultations established during 2005 with russia. it includes information on the wide range of activities implemented by the european commission through the european initiative for democracy and human rights. the report highlights that the eidhr was created at parliament’s initiative, and that parliament has used its budgetary powers to increase substantially the resources earmarked for the protection of human rights and democracy. there is also information about policy development and specific action in relation to 17 thematic issues. these include areas where the eu has adopted human rights guidelines such as on the death penalty, torture, human rights defenders and the rights of children, including their involvement in armed conflict, as well as on other issues, ranging from human rights and terrorism to democracy and elections and the international criminal court. the report provides an overview of eu action in the key international organisations: the united nations commission for human rights and the un general assembly third committee, the osce and the council of europe. it also provides a country-focused perspective, with an account of eu action in its immediate neighbourhood, in africa, in the americas, in asia and in the middle east. the council will continue to look for ways to improve its report. there were a number of innovations in 2005. the first – which, i am sure you will agree, was welcome, and perhaps overdue – was the inclusion of a substantive chapter outlining the extensive work that the european parliament has done in support of human rights and democratisation. everyone recognises that parliament adopts its own annual report and resolution on human rights in the world and on the european union’s policy. however, i think it is both right and helpful that readers of this report get a sense of how the council, commission and parliament all contribute together to the common eu goal of promoting and protecting human rights around the world. i would like to repeat, at this point, the council’s warm welcome for the re-establishment of parliament’s subcommittee on human rights last year. i know how much the council, and in particular its working group on human rights, values the contact and cooperation which is being established with that subcommittee. this year’s report also sets out, for the first time, to provide readers with practical examples of the eu in action. for example, the chapter on racism, xenophobia and non-discrimination includes information on an eidhr project to combat discrimination against dalits in nepal. the chapter on the rights of the child includes a project to promote the rights of children in the new independent states. we believe that these specific examples will help readers make the connection between eu policy and our ability to deliver real changes to the lives of real people right around the world. a further innovation this year was the introduction of some analysis of where eu action has worked well and, indeed, where there were gaps in our performance. a short analysis is provided at the end of each main chapter. it will always be the case that some internal reflection must remain internal, if the eu is to act effectively in, for example, un negotiations or in its relations with certain third countries. but it is also important for ngos and other key partners to have a sense of where we are content with our performance and where we ourselves want to do more. this analysis is a modest but useful step in that direction. like any annual report, this one has its limits. agreed by the council in early october, it provides information on eu action up to june 2005. events have obviously moved on since then. our presidency has sought to use the six months since june to build on the broad range of existing eu commitments. we have taken forward efforts to mainstream human rights throughout the european union’s work. we have, for example, sought to implement the eu’s human rights guidelines, with a particular focus on freedom of expression, by action in support of those who defend human rights where they have suffered for exercising their freedom of expression. within the united nations, the eu is actively involved in negotiations in new york to establish a new un human rights council. there have also been many specific human rights issues and concerns which have been taken up over the past six months. we will look today, for example, at the situation in tunisia. many of these issues could be the subject for next year’s annual report. in conclusion, i look forward to hearing the views of the european parliament and those of the commission on the report itself, and on the various issues that it covers. we want to work to ensure that this report is right. but, more importantly we need to continue to work together to get eu policies and actions right, to ensure that we have real gains in human rights protection around the world to report in years to come.
member of the commission. madam president, i very much welcome the latest edition of the eu annual report on human rights covering the union’s human rights activities for the period of june 2004 to june 2005. the special thing about this report is that, for the first time, it has been drawn up jointly by the council, parliament and the commission. the council and the commission have been doing so in recent years, but, for the first time, parliament is also associated with it. that gives valuable credit to the report. the eu annual report on human rights is a very important expression of the crucial importance of human rights policy in the overall policy setting of the european union. it covers both the eu internal policy developments in the human rights dimension, in particular in the external and international dimensions. its broad coverage of all major thematic and geographic human rights issues underscores the european union’s strong attachment to the protection and promotion of human rights as defining principles of the union across the board: as a community of shared values, founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. let me briefly touch upon some of these items. i have six points to make. this year is a crucial year for the future of the un human rights system, with the ongoing negotiations on the creation of a new institution, the human rights council, as a successor to the existing, widely contested human rights commission. in pursuit of the un summit conclusions in september, it is without exaggeration the rarest of opportunities for the international community to club together to improve on the ability of the un to monitor, improve and act decisively on critical human rights situations throughout the world. had it not been for the european union, it would not have worked. i was there at the start of the millennium summit. i know how difficult it was to come to an agreement, but there, the eu made the difference. our expectations remain high as to the expected result, and our capacity to influence the world community positively should have a favourable bearing upon the negotiating process. however, we should be under no illusions as to the resistance many countries are putting up to improving effectively the current un human rights system. we will need to mobilise all our energies and outreach efforts if we are to bring the current, rather difficult negotiations to a successful conclusion. the human rights dimension impacts increasingly on the european union’s external relations with a range of countries around the world: the human rights dialogue with china; the dialogue with iran – though, regrettably, we have not had a dialogue round for more than a year, but we hope to have one again; the human rights consultations with russia; the local human rights dialogues at the level of the heads of missions of the european union in numerous other countries; and, specifically, our developments under the european neighbourhood policy and its human rights related agenda under the various action plans, where a great deal is always concentrated and reserved for human rights. all this amply demonstrates that the european union is not alone in actively pursuing its agenda of human rights promotion in its external policy: we are also seeing an increasing willingness by our partners to acknowledge that human rights protection is an essential feature of their own countries’ development. still, much has to be done. in this context, i am often asked what these dialogues or consultations really achieve. my answer to that is as follows: as each round is completed, so another opportunity has been taken not only to exchange ideas – so important to our dialogue partners who do not wish to be preached to – but above all, for us, also to explain from our own hard-won experience how we, in the european union, have adapted legislation and administrative practices in order to respect fundamental rights and how we expect our partners to take a similar path. i am convinced that, little by little, the message gets through. the dialogues and consultations allow the eu to raise and discuss individual cases of political prisoners or other persons suffering human rights abuses. on the basis of the european community’s association agreements or partnership and cooperation agreements with third countries, the commission regularly reviews the partner countries’ respect for international human rights standards. indeed, the policy dialogues with many of our partners under these agreements include substantial discussions on relevant human rights and democracy related issues in partner countries. our colleague has already mentioned some very concrete issues. the commission has taken the initiative to establish – with some of those policy dialogues – working groups on human rights and good governance, within the framework of the regular joint committee consultations, for example, with vietnam, jordan or morocco. i would like to draw your attention, in particular, to the five-year work programme on barcelona, where important goals on human rights are indeed included. moreover, as you are aware, all community agreements now contain a specific human rights clause as an essential element. in this respect, the commission is keen to ensure that the clauses are used as a positive tool to improve the human rights situation in partner countries. it is my belief that these structured exchanges on human rights offer a very promising way of realising the goals for which the human rights clauses have been included. indeed, there will be times, in cases of widespread, egregious human rights violations, when sanctions need to be imposed or even an agreement suspended, such as in the case of zimbabwe or togo. however, generally speaking, we should avoid putting too much emphasis on a ‘mechanical’ approach to sanctions or suspension. rather, it seems to me, the crucial point is to scrutinise systematically the human rights records of our partners and to induce them through political and assistance means to live up to their obligations under the human rights clause of the agreement. in that context, i am very grateful for the draft report on the human rights clauses prepared so assiduously by the honourable member, mr agnoletto. his report will oblige all human rights actors within the european union, and particularly within its institutions, to reflect further on their value and on the most appropriate way of using them. the eu annual human rights report also reflects the re-casting of the european initiative for democracy and human rights for the 2005-06 period. the modifications to the programming under that initiative have been based on the result of a careful assessment and designed to respond in the first place to the demands of the potential beneficiaries of the initiative. as a consequence, four campaigns have been designed with a more flexible geographic coverage and integrating actions at global, regional and country level. two elements are particularly dear to me: the stronger commitment to mainstreaming the rights of women and children, as well as the enhanced incentive for the effective participation of civil society organisations from partner countries in the developing world. at the moment, while the last contracts under the 2004 budget of this initiative are being awarded, the publication of the important calls for proposals for the 2005-06 budgets is imminent; indeed, they should be published any day now. at the same time, country-specific calls for proposals are going ahead, and the next annual report will give details of this exercise. the key point here is that the european initiative for democracy and human rights, in its present and future forms, is an essential and integral part of the european union’s overall human rights policy. the european union derives great strength in its relations with third countries from unified positions on many human rights issues of strategic importance. i need think only of the guidelines we have agreed on the death penalty, torture, children in armed conflict and human rights defenders. these, used well, are excellent tools of great influence. i would therefore like to salute the efforts undertaken under the luxembourg and uk presidencies this year in orchestrating very effective campaigns under these guidelines. i would also like to salute the work of the many commission delegations which contributed so effectively to the respective troika demarches in the target countries. the same teamwork is true for the outreach campaign on the subject of the envisaged human rights council – which i mentioned at the beginning – which was conducted in 77 countries. the more that the union, its member states and its institutions speak with one voice on human rights matters, the greater the political impact is. therefore, we should not cease in our efforts, in the council, in parliament and in the commission, to work together as closely and efficiently as possible. in that sense, we present this annual report and hopefully this is a stark reminder of the enormous challenges still lying ahead and the good work that has been done in the past.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the uk presidency for agreeing to present the annual human rights report to parliament today, the first time this has been done since the finnish presidency in 1999. as this year’s parliamentary rapporteur on the annual human rights report, the president-in-office is aware that it is my intention, rather than duplicating the council’s work in this area – as mr coveney has already indicated – to strengthen collaboration between the council and parliament so that the european union can send a stronger and more coherent message in favour of human rights to the wider world. i thank the president-in-office for his support for parliament’s subcommittee in his speech this afternoon. however, i invite him to indicate the council’s willingness to enter into a debate with parliament on our closer collaboration in relation to the annual report itself when he replies to this debate. the annual human rights report this year should be welcomed for its scope and honesty. in a year when the council has evaluated the human rights dialogues with specific countries, the finding that the dialogue with china has had little, if any, impact is indeed a very important one. the report overall is stronger at stating actions rather than evaluating their effectiveness and i hope we will see greater use of human rights impact assessments in future years. at a time when the european union has to stand firm in new york in seeking to strengthen support for a strong human rights council in the united nations, all of us could reflect on whether the european union itself gives sufficient priority to human rights vis-à-vis the importance we give to trade and development in our own external relations. i remind the commissioner that, despite her comments this afternoon, parliament is still looking for her support to retain a separate legal base on the european initiative for democracy and human rights. i hope we will hear from her too. finally, let us take one of the bloodiest events of 2005: the massacre of hundreds of people in andijan on 13 may and the subsequent arrest and torture by the uzbek authorities of seemingly anyone who might be a witness. the eu suspension of parts of the partnership and cooperation agreement, the arms embargo and visa restrictions represent and categorically show to the world that this european union can and will uphold human rights.
madam president, today we again debate human rights across the world and point out the deficiencies of others. however, i want to focus this debate on a flagrant breach of human rights perpetuated within this european union specifically within the united kingdom. council directive 2000/78/ec rightly prohibits religious discrimination in employment. yet pursuant to a derogation under article 15 of that directive, the united kingdom government is permitted to practise discrimination against protestants in northern ireland who apply to join the police service of northern ireland, solely because they are protestants. in consequence, hundreds of exceptionally qualified young protestant applicants have been refused admission to the police, not on merit, but because there is not a matching quantity of applicants from the catholic community. so before this house and the eu parade their human rights credentials, i say: let it set about righting that wrong, implementing the directive on employment in its entirety and ending the outrageous discrimination against the majority community in my country.
madam president, i am responsible in the committee on international trade for the proposed revision of the human rights clauses in partnership and trade agreements. words are not enough; we need action. far too often, the council and commission are not prepared to trigger the use of these clauses to pressurise third countries to address legitimate concerns. can the council and commission look at the step-by-step ratcheting-up of pressure that can be built into a new, revised human rights clause? the second point is that sometimes process failures interfere with product outcomes. we welcome the human rights dialogue with china and iran. for two years the eu was the only place in the world that had a human rights dialogue with a deeply unloved regime in north korea. then the council sponsored a resolution condemning north korean human rights in geneva without informing either the north koreans or the commission. as a result the dialogue was suspended. this year, we sponsored a new resolution on the ground that we have to have a resolution: we have no dialogue; we fail to recognise that we have no dialogue because we had a resolution.
mr president, i was privileged to be part of the european parliament’s delegation in tunis. indeed i was also at the geneva summit and was able to follow the project through. i share the regret expressed by mrs reding and my colleague mrs trautmann about what i regarded as the entirely unnecessary disruption of our meetings in a country that clearly has embraced many aspects of the digital revolution, as the previous speaker said. i could not understand why it was felt necessary to do that. i want to concentrate on some of the achievements of the summit and, in particular, the policy that i called for after the geneva summit, which relates to how we can spread the capacity for computer science and research to the developing world so that they can develop their own products. we in the european union have been hugely successful in the way that we have offered the benefits of our own networking technology through spreading the géant network to the developing world and also encouraging the development of open competitive markets to deliver high-quality services at competitive cost. that is a major achievement. it was sad that, even so, this was a workshop full of professors and university researchers where the tunisians chose to restrict attendance. it was unnecessary and took the shine off it. i admire mrs trautmann for the robust way in which she stood up to the interventions at our meeting. it was a pleasure to watch her.
member of the commission. mr president, after two and a half years of consultations, discussions, conferences, that is all, the commission is today putting on the table a new directive to replace the 'television without frontiers' directive. why is this directive necessary? well simply because we have multimedia convergence. there are a multitude of platforms, radio, cable, satellite, adsl, mobile phones, which carry the same content, whether it is traditional television or on-demand services. the problem is that this extremely rapid evolution has not been followed by an evolution of the law. it is unfair and distorts competition to settle some cases and not others. it is not acceptable to give some people legal security and deprive others of it. it is not right to allow some to enjoy the benefits of the single market and deprive others of them. the new directive therefore aims to treat similar goods in a comparable way. we're seeing a real explosion of platforms and content. remember, when the 'television without frontiers' directive was born in 1989, there were 10 satellite channels, there are now 2 500. with the introduction of digital, there will be a real explosion of available content. the new services, of which there are now 50, are undergoing a rapid development. although video on demand is not yet widely available, experts tell us that if regulations allow the development of this type of service, by the year 2010 22 million households will be connected to video on demand with an annual turnover of more than 2 billion euros. ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the midst of the lisbon strategy, with the opportunity to strengthen our european content industry, with the growth and jobs that this implies. the directive i would like to present to you today is not a directive on the means of transmission of information, but a directive on content, which deals with audiovisual services, whatever the means of transmission to the citizens. so how are we going to deal with the various contents? first, there will be a distinction between two types of content. the first is the content that we know, that we are used to using, that is our traditional television, content that has been set by others and that we have to accept as it is. so we have no choice but to turn the tv on or off. the second type of content is nonlinear content, which gives the consumer a choice: to search, to grab, to grab what's important, what interests them. so these two ways of getting content to the citizens, the linear and the nonlinear, will be regulated differently. but, and this is a very important but, even though there are two types of content, we must maintain a balance between the industrial dimension - i have already spoken about the creation of european content - the european values that must not be lost because the type of content is changing, the protection of consumers and in particular minors, which is important regardless of the type of content, and of course the cultural diversity that we care about. so we need to balance these different elements while applying the principle of better regulation. we're going to do this through what i call the light touch approach. so how's this light touch going to be? first, there will be a minimum common ground for all types of content. this minimum base provides for the identification of the supplier: it is necessary to know who put the message on the carrier. secondly, it provides for identifiable advertising: no underground advertising, but strict rules that target advertising at the content level. secondly, the protection of human dignity. it would be unacceptable, for example, for one type of content to contain incitement to racial or religious hatred and not for another. similarly, it would be unacceptable if the protection of minors were not present in all types of content. furthermore, parliament and all the defenders of european culture cannot accept that the promotion of european identity and cultural diversity is present only in one type of content and not in the other. so that's it for the common rules to the linear and the nonlinear. what are the specific rules for conventional television that should be more seriously regulated, given its great influence and the fact that consumers have no choice? what will remain are quotas, the right of reply, access to events of major importance. what will partly change and partly remain is the way we deal with advertising. firstly, as regards the qualitative rules, they remain unchanged in relation to the directive in force. it is the quantitative rules that are changing, partly because in this new multimedia world, simplified, modernised rules are needed and it is not the commission's job to do the work of programmers. that is why there will be no daily limits, that is why interruptions will not be as heavily regulated as they are today, that is why isolated spots will be allowed in sport but not in other areas. however, because we do not want a "complete" television, we maintain a few important basic rules. the first is the 12-minute limit per hour. there will therefore be no advertising explosion, as has sometimes been reported in the press, but the limit will remain at 12 minutes per hour. there will also be safeguards against interrupting films, tv films, children's programmes and information programmes: the limit is set at one interruption per 35 minute period, which is very important. the fact, for example, that children will be better protected in the future from traditional television and that they will also be protected from non-linear television is an important step forward. so it can be said that when we relax the rules for adults, we strengthen them for the protection of young people. another important element, and one that has been considered in the context of financing our content, is the authorization, under very restrictive and very strict conditions, of product placement. we have conflicting rules in europe today on product placement. in one country there are no rules, in another the rules are only for national content and in yet another the ban is total. in the future, in order to ensure that the rules are the same for everyone and that consumers are well informed - which is not the case in the current system - product placement will have to follow very strict rules. it will be allowed if the viewer's information is assured. the rules should ensure legal certainty and equal treatment of content. but, and this is very important, there will also be major restrictions: no product placements for children; no product placements in the context of news, news magazines and documentaries. so we want to protect our children and we want to protect the freedom of the press. mr president, this directive contains a great many new features and it would take me too long to list them all. but i know parliament, and we shall be returning to it in the coming months. i would like to point out three of them, however, which are important. the first is the non-discriminatory right to short extracts. secondly, for the first time, a european directive explicitly allows the use of co-regulation and self-regulation for national regulation. the third innovation, which seems to me to be of major importance for the implementation of this directive, is the establishment, at national level, of audiovisual regulators independent of governments.
mr president, i warmly welcome the release of this new proposal. i would like the commissioner to confirm that it will continue to be called the television without frontiers directive, in modernised form. i believe the original proposal for a name was very confusing. i should like ask the commissioner whether she thinks she is being radical enough, given the pace of technology. having seen a number of developments – including when we were together in tunis recently – it is my view that that the distinction between linear and non-linear is getting more and more blurred and that more and more consumers are going to access what were traditional broadcast programmes at whatever time they want, as they will be stored automatically on their digital video recorders. indeed, we will be carrying them to parliament in our ipods or whatever other digital mechanism we use. so does the commissioner really think that this is radical enough? secondly, i noted that she said she was looking for a light-touch approach, a lack of red tape and technological neutrality, all of which are principles of the excellent communications framework directive we have now, which is vitally important. does the commissioner believe that she has the right balance of these in this directive and that it will stand the test of time in the way that the communications framework directive already has?
member of the commission. the case began in 2002 and there have been ebbs and flows in the workload over that time. during that time, there has been one primary case handler working on the case part-time while carrying out other work in the directorate-general. the case has also involved the hierarchy of dg competition and the cabinet at appropriate stages. the commission does not accept the suggestion that this was not a genuine competition case. football is an extremely popular sport, as we all know, and the way in which its media rights are sold can have significant long-term effects on the development of the media markets. the importance of this case is shown by the number of companies, free-to-air and pay-tv broadcasters, internet operators, mobile operators and potential new entrants who have expressed their concerns to the commission and, on occasion, to the relevant national authorities in the course of this case. in addition, both the office of fair trading and the office of communications strongly supported both the existence of the commission’s investigation and its focus. finally, the uk consumers’ association published its own report into these issues, concluding that there was a genuine consumer problem and that the cause of that problem lay in the manner in which the english football association premier league jointly sold the rights to premier league games. the commission does not agree, therefore, that it would have been more efficient or appropriate to investigate the broadcasting market for potential abuse of a dominant position. where there are concerns about dominance, it is appropriate for a competition authority to look closely at the causes of that dominance. where dominance exists on a downstream market, at least in part as a result of upstream agreements that potentially infringe article 81, the most efficient and effective course of action is to look at those upstream agreements. the joint selling of football rights risks creating a seller with market power and the consequent transfer of that market power downstream. the joint selling can cause competition problems downstream and therefore deserves close examination. to treat only the downstream dominance without looking at the upstream rights contracts would be to treat the symptom of the competition problem rather than one of the causes.
as ever, the commission never really answers the question because it was a 3½-year run of resources. i have to say we are not just talking about commission resources; we are talking about millions of pounds spent on lawyers’ fees by people involved in this action. i have to ask the question again: does the commission believe that is proportionate to the outcome of having achieved that one extra package will go to an operator other than sky, with no guarantee that will be a free-to-air provider. it may well be another cable operator and, potentially, that will have a cost to the consumer. will the commission now, more importantly, allow this current agreement to run without interfering, so that we see whether it delivers for the public interest and allow the football clubs, particularly, to be able to have legal certainty in managing their own resources, especially when investing in community finance in their local areas?
madam president, yet again i am forced to rise in this house to speak on a report which will increase costs for both consumers and businesses alike. the problems i have with the eurovignette are both technical and relate to reasons of principle. in issues of taxation of this nature the european union has no competence. these matters are rightly the purview of member states, and, before i am corrected, let me say that the eurovignette is a tax, not a toll, since the commission proposes hypothecating revenue from what can only be called a stealth tax. this goes way beyond its remit. i am sure the president-in-office will confirm that in the uk alone over gbp 40 billion is taken in road-related taxes, yet only gbp 8 billion is reinvested in the transport infrastructure – far from being tax-neutral. if i know national governments well, the end result of this proposal would be tantamount to double taxation. this is only the thin end of the wedge. the eurovignette is the precursor to tolling on all vehicles. i fundamentally oppose such measures. we already have iniquitous levels of taxation in the road sector, and this is no different. not to mention the ‘big brother’ approach that is being taken to how this will eventually be implemented. on technical matters, the internalisation of external costs offers no verifiable scientific evidence to support the claims being made. to try and build into legislation arbitrarily such issues as environmental damage, which cannot be calculated with any confidence, is plainly ludicrous. the european union is consistent in its claims to promote competition and competitiveness, yet it is just as consistent in failing to do so. mr barroso is keen to tell us he wants to scrap many existing and proposed regulations. here he, and you, mr barrot, have one of the most excellent opportunities to do so, by scrapping this whole proposal.
the commission's vice-president madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the whole of parliament for this enriching debate which has confirmed the broad support which the compromise negotiated between our three institutions enjoys today. i congratulate all of you, and especially your rapporteur, on this result, which is undoubtedly progress, although i know that some of you would have liked to have achieved more. this agreement is an important step and, thanks to parliament, the next steps towards a formal internalisation of external costs are being defined. the commission has to model the best approach to this issue and then it will undertake an evaluation to analyse the impact. it will do so over the next two years. on the basis of this analysis, the commission will possibly prepare appropriate proposals to enable external costs to be borne internally. this agreement is part of our strategy for sustainable development, while encouraging the competitiveness of our economies and guaranteeing the principle of fairness: if the user is the payer, he does not have to pay twice. in addition, the amounts released should be reused as far as possible for sustainable transport. one of you spoke of a compromise, but it is a compromise which is tantamount to a commitment. i do, and i use that expression again. for the commissioner i am, this compromise is a commitment to the future, to commit ourselves to mobility compatible with the requirements of sustainable development.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once adopted, this regulation will be able to bring about a marked improvement in the situation of our disabled and less mobile citizens. the aim is to ensure that the rights of air passengers are protected and that the principle of our community policy on non-discrimination against disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility is respected. i thank the european parliament, and i thank in particular your rapporteur, mr evans, who has worked in cooperation with the council and the commission to facilitate the rapid adoption of this proposal. this initiative is not the only one to provide greater protection for people with reduced mobility in transport, as the commission has committed itself to examining the need to improve and guarantee these same rights in other modes of transport. people with reduced mobility must be guaranteed appropriate assistance, wherever they go, whatever mode of transport they use. the commission has already made a proposal for rail passengers and i intend to make proposals for people with reduced mobility who use sea transport and international coach transport. i believe, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2005 there is indeed progress in favour of all persons with reduced mobility, who are thus regaining a real citizenship in our european union. the proposal before you meets this objective of non-discrimination. the aim of the directive is to lay down detailed rules prohibiting the unjustified refusal to transport persons with reduced mobility by denying them the necessary and adequate assistance. with this proposal, presented on 16 february, the commission will pursue four objectives: no discrimination for disabled people and persons with reduced mobility; no direct charges may be imposed on them when they receive assistance; such assistance shall comply with a set of minimum standards and shall be flawless; the responsibility for such assistance should be given to the bodies most able to provide it: airports, airlines. in order to achieve these objectives, the responsibility for ground, surrounding and in-airport assistance remains with airport managers, and air carriers should be required to provide forms of assistance on board aircraft. ladies and gentlemen, the assistance of people with reduced mobility cannot be diluted. it must be organised by a single responsible entity to ensure full, consistent and effective enforcement. as regards practical implementation, the proposal includes all the flexibility needed to arrive at appropriate solutions for airports and airlines. as you know, the transport council reached a general approach to this proposal last october. thanks to the constructive contribution of parliament, we can hope for a rapid adoption of this important text, which will offer real possibilities for assisting disabled people and people with reduced mobility throughout europe. that is the importance of this text in the social field and in the field of solidarity. i thank you in advance, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for ensuring that we can offer - if i may say at the end of the year - this advance for all disabled, elderly and people with reduced mobility, so that they can enjoy all our modes of transport, just like healthy people.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i congratulate the european parliament for bringing this important proposal from the commission to a speedy and successful conclusion. this regulation, on the rights of disabled people and those with reduced mobility when travelling by air, will make a real improvement to the lives of those members of our community, by giving them the security to take full advantage of the opportunities for air travel – for business and leisure – which have so transformed our world in recent years. i particularly congratulate mr evans, the rapporteur, for his hard work and dedication in steering this dossier so fluently along its legislative path. it is a fine example of how, when a legislative proposal offers real and tangible benefits to the citizens of the community, the institutions can collaborate effectively to ensure that these benefits are delivered in the shortest possible time. for the first time, this regulation sets out in clear terms what assistance disabled persons and those with reduced mobility are legally entitled to expect from airports and airlines and under what conditions. by placing a clear responsibility on airport managing bodies to organise the necessary assistance for disabled passengers from the time they arrive at the airport until they board the plane, the regulation will give disabled persons travelling by air the assurance that their needs will be met seamlessly by one responsible body, backed by the force of european law. of course, many airports and airlines already provide excellent services to disabled people and are rightly proud of their achievements in this area. the regulation recognises that fact by explicitly providing that airport managing bodies may, while retaining their overall legal responsibility, contract with other bodies, including airlines, to deliver services on the ground. thus, those airlines that already deliver a high level of service to disabled passengers should be able to secure contracts with the airport managing bodies to enable them to continue to do so. in short, i consider that this regulation pulls off the difficult trick of ensuring that disabled people get the legal right to an acceptable standard of service when travelling by air, without placing undue and onerous burdens on the industry that has to provide these services. i congratulate all concerned.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very pleased to be able to present my report to parliament tonight, the first major piece of disability legislation for air travellers. i should like sincerely to thank the shadows, the parliament and group staff, my own staff, the commission, the various disabled organisations and aviation groups with which i have been privileged to work and the uk presidency, without whose sterling efforts my anticipated historic first reading agreement would not have been possible. too many people – the elderly or those with disabilities – complain of being neglected or, worse still, maltreated at europe’s airports. fundamental rights for disabled passengers when travelling by air ought to be something we take for granted. however, the reality can be very different. one example is ryanair and the insulting manner in which it treats disabled passengers. it is probably the best-publicised culprit, but there are plenty of others and not just the low-cost carriers. madam president, you and i were speaking recently about your issues with lufthansa; i have had other issues with iberia, to name but two. only yesterday, on my flight to strasbourg, air france blamed the one disabled passenger for the one-hour delay in boarding people. of course, against this, as mr twigg has said, many people’s experiences are positive, and many airlines and airports offer a good service. however, it was against a background of complaints and a service which can at best be described as patchy that, earlier this year, as the commissioner said, his commission presented proposals for improving the rights of persons of reduced mobility, to which, despite some opposition early on, i am very pleased we have now been able to add disabled people. during its passage through the european parliament i have also been pleased to be able to present other improvements. most importantly, ensuring that the proposal is for a seamless service for passengers, from any point of arrival at any of the airports in the european union, to destinations – including transfers, which are often the most traumatic experiences for people. at my suggestion, the committee also amended the commission text to give airports the overall responsibility for ensuring an efficient and effective service with, as mr twigg again mentioned, the ability to contract it out if they so wish. i am also very pleased to be able to amend the proposal to allow guide dogs or service dogs on long-haul flights, because i am advised that the owners of those dogs are in the best position to judge how long a flight the animal can cope with. in the report we also requested that planes and airports be better designed in consultation with disabled people’s organisations and that the airport and airline staff be given real disability awareness training. in addition, i think there is a real need for reservation systems, including websites, to be much more user-friendly and effective. the aim is to ensure that people with reduced mobility and disabled passengers enjoy the same rights when travelling by air as you or i, without incurring any additional costs – the costs being spread across every passenger handled by the air carrier and included in the price of the ticket. airline statistics suggest that up to ten million passengers in this category are assisted at europe’s airports every year. therefore, it is essential that the guidelines are clear and agreed at european level. it would be pointless if one or a few of the 25 eu member states had good legislation and the others had poor legislation or none at all. travelling by air is now almost as common as travelling by car, with up to half the population expecting to fly at least once a year. without this sort of watertight legislation, some airlines will look for loopholes to avoid providing for disabled people and those who need a little extra help at busy airports where the distance from check-in to the boarding gate can be up to a kilometre. many airlines have made improvements under a voluntary agreement. however, without proper legislation, there will always be some who, by negligence or indifference, ruin the holidays or trips of vulnerable people. i hope colleagues will support this proposal, because it is long overdue. it is much anticipated and, above all, it is a good news and positive european story. i repeat my thanks for the incredible endeavour of the uk presidency, because i know the vast amount of time and effort that has been put into it. i thank the president-in-office warmly for his presence here tonight at nearly 10.10 p.m. all 25 eu governments and all the major parties in the european parliament are in support of this package that will be presented. we should be very proud when we vote on this report on thursday and achieve, as i hope and expect, an agreement at first reading.
member of the commission. madam president, i shall try to be as brief as possible. usually i am the last on the list in these late debates, so i know exactly what we are talking about! i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating mr kristensen and parliament for this initiative. it is very important to identify the special situation regarding new member states and consumer protection. even though a lot has been done already, and i will talk about that later, a lot still needs to be done. we have come a long way, but extra effort is still needed. i know that some of you have already heard me speaking to the intergroup, but i shall echo what i said here with one word: how? how are we going to do all the things you are suggesting? most of them i agree with, and we are going to try and see how we can adopt in practical terms, but the problem is that to do all those things we will need adequate funds, and that is a problem. it is true we have reached a very high level of legislation. this is a fact. but there will always be room for improvement. as you know, we have the review of the acquis very soon, but at the same time we have reached the point where we need to enforce, to implement. this is usually done through training, education, capacity-building – largely through consumer organisations. this is even truer for new member states. the question is how this is to be done without sufficient funds. we have a more demanding situation now. we now have 25 member states, soon to be 27, and not 15 member states. yet at the same time, in practice, we will have fewer funds than we had for the eu-15. based on last week’s latest proposal on the budget, if we fund the european food safety authority and the european centre for disease control, as envisaged in the programme, there will be no money left for anything else. new member states or old member states, new initiatives or old initiatives, we will not have any funds left. therefore, we will have to re-evaluate our priorities and limit the areas in which we are going to work to make sure that we make an impact with the limited funds we will have. it is true that we have a lot to do in the new member states, but we have gone a long way. there are very interesting suggestions in the report. we will try to find the best ways to apply them. however, i can tell you that we have already achieved a lot: we offer training courses especially for consumer organisation staff in new member states. more than 60% of the trainees come from new member states. we give priority to calls for specific projects. eu co-financing is higher and the criteria are more favourable for the new member states. we have already had information campaigns in poland this year and will have them in the czech republic, slovakia and slovenia next year. with regard to european consumer centres, which are very important institutions – you have supported the idea many times – we already have them in seven out of the ten new member states and next year will be establishing them in hungary, slovenia and slovakia. we will continue in the meantime to work on finding the means to make operational some of the calls in mr kristensen’s report. to do our job properly, we will need to have the right data and information. we will need to have objective criteria to be able to evaluate and assess the situation in each member state and, in particular, in the new member states. finally, i have to say that we have limits: not just financial limits, but also competence limits. what we do complements but does not substitute for national responsibility and national initiatives. many aspects, such as the financing of the day-to-day operations of national consumer organisations, are the responsibility of national governments. that is the main reason why i always emphasise in my meetings with the ministers responsible for consumer protection that consumer policy has to become a priority. i believe that members of the european parliament can also play a very important role in this respect. i shall conclude by making two points. firstly, i can assure you that in the consumer strategy we will bring forward in 2006 there will be a more detailed, elaborate proposal that we will develop and present to parliament. it will give a greater focus on new member states, taking into account as many of the suggestions in the report as possible. i should like to announce to the house something that you may find interesting. we have circulated a questionnaire. we are building a country profile for all member states in the consumer protection area, containing all the data on the situation, and this will be published on the website. this will make it more transparent, so that both consumer organisations, members of parliament and anybody interested will be able to see. if there is anything incorrect, i would be very happy to know, because most of the information will be given to us by the member states. but at least it will be the first step towards being able to compare the situation between the various member states. i will stop there. i apologise if i have spoken for too long. i will now listen with great interest to the debate.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, this report foreshadows the recruitment and subsidy of selected consumer agencies with a view to promoting the eu’s consumer product legislation and preparing consumers for the adoption of the euro. in other words, the eu institutions are planning to use taxpayers’ money to hire advocates of their own policies. this is nothing but a propaganda exercise of the worst kind because in this way, the state becomes both judge and plaintiff, and independent thought or opposition becomes an underground activity. is there no substantial understanding of the dangers of this among the members who sit here now, or in parliament as a whole? are they so utterly blind to all but the cosy platitudes of the eu’s carefully engineered, hugely bribed sectoral lobbies? mr kristensen’s contribution is scarcely more than a tiny pebble in a landslide of such similar instruments, but it illustrates well enough what is going on. one day members who now gape at me uncomprehendingly will experience the icy chill up the spine that i experienced today, and the sooner the better. i have said on many other occasions that if the eu was the answer, it must have been a silly question. we can now also see how very dangerous it is.
on behalf of the pse group . – madam president, i should like to say to the commissioner that we are getting near christmas and it is a time for giving and generosity, but i think she is getting the message here that eur 40 million is not very generous at all. if my group supports the report tomorrow it will be with a heavy heart, as the rapporteur has said, because we feel that the eur 80 million that the committee on development voted unanimously for was the minimum. now we are going to halve that and put only eur 40 million on the table. we are doing this to get a first reading deal and to ensure rapid disbursement. it is a paltry sum and even more paltry when compared with the eur 7 billion we managed to find to support our own producers and companies affected by sugar reform. perhaps i would not mind so much if i really believed that the money would go to small farmers, but i am not sure that it will. looking at evidence from the past, i do not believe it will. in the last two years tate & lyle sugar has had gbp 227 million from the cap budget. nestlé, in the uk alone, has had gbp 11 million, and even more in belgium and holland. i understand that klm has had money because it put some runways on some former farming land. we need a lot more transparency about where the cap funds go. french farmers at the moment are getting just 10% of the cap subsidies. in spain 18% of the top farmers received 76% of the funding in 2003. we must get away from the idea that it is our farmers versus the farmers in the developing world. as far as i can see, the little people everywhere are not getting very much at all from the cap at the moment. to return to the eur 40 million, it can only be the beginning. i realise this is not your dossier, commissioner, but i believe you said that there will be substantially more support in the future. if we are going to make poverty history we really must do much more than that in the future. many of the 18 protocol countries are not the poorest countries in the world, but they are not the richest either. in fact, they are pretty poor and many of them have just taken the first step on the way to development. i do not think this is the time to pull the rug from under their feet. they need time to adjust to sugar reform and they need money. when we talk about money we should talk about new money from the eu budget. let us not talk about taking some money off the development budget to give it to the sugar protocol countries; let us not rob the very poorest to give to the slightly less poor. the commission president has talked a lot about robin hood in the last couple of weeks. let us not play robin hood in reverse. let us find new money to aid these countries. let us remember that we have sugar reform and banana reform. these are very small island economies, small states, and they need our support. i hope the commissioner will take that message back to her colleagues.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the changes to the sugar regime will achieve the double whammy of destroying the livelihood of sugar producers in member states and in the developing world. according to farmers weekly in the uk, next season, british sugar beet growers will start facing deep price cuts and the possibility of factory closures. one of the acp countries, st kitts and nevis, has already stopped sugar production and it will not be an isolated case. the chairman of the acp sugar group, mr arvin boollel, has said that, following the eu decision, it is very likely that we are all going to suffer from the st kitts and nevis situation. he said: ‘we have been shot in the legs and asked to run the marathon’. his country knows all about being shafted by the eu. he is the agriculture minister of mauritius, one of the many developing nations subject to the eu’s scandalous fishing agreements. only eur 40 million is on the table. the acp countries call it peanuts. the jamaican foreign minister, mr knight, described it as a miserly approach, a very evocative and relevant thing to say at this time of year. it will not be a sweet christmas for sugar producers, be they in east anglia or east africa. they all know that if the eu and its scrooges are the answer, it must have been a stupid question.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in my one minute i have little time for context or subtlety on this convoluted report, although i will say that i hope colleagues will take the opportunity tomorrow to clear up some slightly regrettable inconsistency and imprecision that have crept into it. if that chance is not taken tomorrow then, with regret, i suspect that my group will be unable to support it. the key points for us are: the safety net, the period in which investment has to be maintained within the region, and the de minimis criteria. although there have been some welcome steps forward on the position of statistical effect regions, we believe we could have done somewhat better in this field. i would urge colleagues to support our amendments, which bring some much needed clarity to this report. i would echo mrs harkin’s disappointment at the words of our commissioner this evening. i would urge you, commissioner, to pay heed to the opinion of this house, which i believe has worked productively in this business. i hope that we can continue in that manner.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it is very tempting to offer all of europe’s poorer regions vast subsidies, but perhaps we should remember that west germany has already spent some eur 900 billion trying to create a level playing field for their relatively small neighbour, east germany. that should ring serious alarm bells, but we are turning a deaf ear. the eight eastern european countries that have already joined the eu, plus bulgaria and romania, have been promised eur 139 billion out of the total structural funds budget of eur 336 billion for the period 2007 to 2013. an exhibition that the dutch presidency put on in brussels last december predicted that another ten impoverished countries will join the eu by 2022. based on germany’s experience, the costs will be absolutely astronomical and attainable only if the big three member states – germany, britain and france – are prepared to impoverish themselves in the process. it is about time we scrapped this whole crazy idea and helped out those poorer countries by creating opportunities for increased trade, tourism, etc. i can well believe that tony blair will agree to impoverish britain in his quest for european popularity, but i cannot imagine mr chirac doing the same thing to france.
(the speaker spoke irish) madam president, i thank mr koterec for his work and commend his report to the commissioner. state aid is consistent with structural fund policies and it can contribute to social and economic cohesion. more flexibility would be important in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to allow for a proper response to the specific development needs of individual, less-favoured regions. i want, in particular, to welcome the report’s assertion that the natural effect regions and the economic development regions should be eligible for a more flexible regime of state aid in the future. it is particularly important to ensure that such regions can receive the maximum for a time and maintain their positive economic development trajectories after 2006, and that areas are not left behind as the economy improves and develops. i would also like to stress, as others have, the need for firms to remain in the region for which they have received the aid. (the speaker continued in irish)
mr president, i wish to rise on a point of order, to offer the presidency the opportunity to request that this debate be rescheduled for this afternoon. it is my understanding that the president-in-office, the european affairs minister, intended to be with us this morning to discuss the preparations for the presidency and yet the presidency-in-office did not intend to unveil its budget proposals until this afternoon. we have had the great pleasure of debating with one of the more assiduous and intelligent european affairs ministers who has come before this house. to engage in some kind of shadow boxing when we do not know what the proposals are seems to me to be really quite ridiculous and a waste of our time. the presidency-in-office is not here to be able to make this request. i hope it will be here later. mr president, i hope you will seek an assurance from the presidency-in-office that it will have proper debate with us and outline what it intends to put to the council as a budget proposal.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, two years ago today a letter was written to president prodi. it bore the signatures of one head of state – president chirac – and five prime ministers: balkenende, blair, persson, schröder and schüssel, four of whom, alas, are still in office today. signed with poison pens, it is the root of our problems today. that letter called for a limit to eu spending of 1% of gross national income. those same heads of state and government simultaneously demanded of the union policies that they are not prepared to finance. they are member state leaders who urge on the union abroad but duck the debate at home; leaders who will the ends, but not the means. words like ‘unacceptable’ rarely flow from the very moderate lips of the commission president, who is reportedly one of mr blair’s best friends, but the commission and parliament must be at one in rejecting a budget that puts the concerns of the accountants above the broader view of the boardroom. i welcome mr barroso’s letter to the presidency-in-office about this week’s council. for liberals and democrats in this house, no deal is better than a bad deal. liberals and democrats will not compromise europe’s long-term interests. we will not be implicated in creating a two-tier europe. what have the new member states found in their brave new world? a french president who tells them to shut up, a german prime minister who denies them their own tax policies and a british presidency that moves the goalposts of solidarity. what we expect from the presidency is a budget that puts long-term strengths and common concerns above individual satisfaction and personal gain. what it seems we will get is a proposal that will paralyse the union’s priorities and satisfy no one. president-in-office, 1.03% of gross national income will not pay for our new policies or for enlargement. this house understood that when we estimated the future financial needs at 1.08% of gni, and that was a conservative estimate. what about money for challenges, such as security? what about the ambitions of the lisbon agenda? five years ago, we said we would raise research spending to 3% of gdp by 2010. it has slipped down even further: to below 2% last year, compared to 2.5% in the usa and over 3% in japan. this is not just a budget for tomorrow. it is a framework that will bind us until 2013. it is a budget that must provide for competitiveness and jobs for our young people. it is a budget that must pay for the social solidarity europe wants. parliament should reject any council agreement that does our union down. the presidency has ambitions for a wider council agenda. i wish you success. my group hopes that you will review the so-called war on terror. complicity of eu member states in warfare using depleted uranium and white phosphorous, detention without trial, torture and turning a blind eye to a clampdown on the freedom of millions in countries with whom we cultivate strategic partnerships debases our union. two days ago, the general affairs council called for a comprehensive approach to combating terrorism while respecting human rights. liberals and democrats want the council to restate the european union’s respect for the rule of law and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to mean it. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, if you sat down and deliberately tried to plan the family christmas from hell, you could not do a better job than the british presidency has managed to achieve in the last six months. i am certain, mr alexander, that you have been very ably backed up by the utterly useless and treacherous foreign office sitting behind you, but perhaps this morning you as a great europhile will begin to understand the reality about the uk’s position inside the european union. we have never been more isolated, more alienated, more disliked by our european neighbours in our entire history than we are today, sitting here in this chamber this morning – and i guess that is why mr blair has sent you here today to do his dirty work. because he promised us back in june – did he not? – that he would report back to the european parliament as often as he could. well he has not got the guts to turn up today. perhaps it is the abuse, i do not know. perhaps he is upset that mr barroso has likened him to the sheriff of nottingham. i know that many of the new member states think that mr blair is behaving like ebenezer scrooge. well, that is actually rather unfair because the british are still paying gbp 30 million a day into an organisation whose accounts have not been signed off for the last 11 years in a row, and we are paying our fair share of the new underground system in warsaw, and the sewers in budapest, and goodness knows how many hectares of french farmland. but the ghost of christmas past for mr blair will be the spectre of failure. he will not want history to see him coming out of a six-month presidency without a deal and that is why there will be a deal. there will be a further surrender of the british rebate. and the only real victor in all of this is mr barroso! and my goodness me, mr barroso, you could do with a few successes, could you not? you wrote to mr blair on 20 october with five proposals to relaunch negotiations, and the british presidency has followed those to the letter, including accepting that in 2008 there will be a complete review of the eu budget, when the whole of the uk rebate will be on the table. so there will be a deal over the next couple of days, but it will not settle the matter. i have a positive proposal for all of you. (interjection from the floor: ‘no!’) yes, honestly! why do we not extend the british presidency for a further six months? six more months of the foreign office, mr blair and mr alexander, six more months of this, and it will be obvious to all that the united kingdom is a square peg in a round european hole. a global trading nation that is very proud of its recent history does not belong, does not fit in with this club and, from your perspective, we are like the dog in the manger, are we not? we are always holding you up. we are always stopping you. get rid of us! kick us out! expel us! you can then carry on with your projects and we can get back to running our own country. it is not just a question of ‘we want our money back’ – we want our country back! (applause)
mr president, i almost feel sorry for mr alexander, but i am going to resist the temptation. last weekend the london sunday times published mr blair’s next speech in brussels, which included the words: ‘here you breathe the sweet smell of belgium’s unique brand of corruption, which it has generously bestowed on the rest of europe’. then it went on to anticipate what he might say to mr chirac the next time they meet: ‘mon ami jacques, the proud upholder of the most immoral state-subsidised policy in human history – the gbp 27 billion-a-year common agricultural policy’, which transfers british taxpayers’ money to ‘bloated french landowners, pumping up food prices in europe and creating poverty in africa’. mr blair’s real problem is that he cannot say any of that. he has to be supportive of the european union, or at least seem to be so. however, he knows back home that the majority loathes this house and all it stands for and wants us to leave. he knows the british presidency has been a disaster. we do not subscribe to your project. mr heath’s pigeons of the 1970s have come home to roost big time in the uk. mr heath lied through his teeth to persuade us to join. his deceit has left successive british governments to cope with the consequences and we have gradually come to see the eu for what it really is. today we know this emperor has no clothes. this is not a parliamentary democracy. that was never intended. this is ruled by secret committees, faceless bullying bureaucrats, and accountability by smoke and mirrors. this is the new soviet and it is no wonder that italy now wants russia to join it. mr putin would feel perfectly at home. since i arrived here last year, it has been remarkable how many people have admitted privately to me that we should never have joined and we should leave at the earliest opportunity. so we should!
mr president, i too almost feel that i should be doing something to help mr alexander out, but, as a lawyer, it does not appear to me that there will be enough money in the eu budget to pay my fees. i am rather sorry for him, but he is here to try to convince the house that the presidency is on top of events. sadly, the past six months have shown that this presidency has unfortunately been unable even to comprehend events, let alone establish its position in relation to them. he is the messenger for a presidency that has run out of ideas, run out of steam and is rapidly running out of time. it is sadly acknowledged across the political spectrum, as we are hearing today, that the british presidency has not achieved what it said it would. it began with high hopes and prime ministerial panache. in this chamber, it asked to be judged on its record over the six months it was in office. in june, i warned the house that there was often a yawning gap between the prime minister’s rhetoric and reality. anyone who has watched the prime minister preside over this presidency will surely understand my caution. unlike the minister, i now want to concentrate on mr blair’s increasingly frantic attempts to get an agreement on the financial perspectives and the future eu budget. in the past few weeks, he has left us breathless with his efforts at diplomacy. flexibility and vision is all very well, mr alexander, but the prime minister’s actions have been successful only in securing the hostility of the countries of central and eastern europe – which thought he was their friend – while gaining not a hint of compromise on cap reform in discussions with governments. in addition, and crucially, he has reneged on a promise to the british people not to undermine their budget rebate, a promise that perhaps he should not have made. in june, he said the rebate would remain. he is now negotiating it away without any promises on fundamental reform, which he said previously were vital. he should not be surprised if public reaction in the united kingdom is hostile. he has misled the british people and they see it live on their television screens. they will be paying more because the prime minister has let them and the country down. i read at the weekend – and i hope the president-in-office will react to it – that the british treasury has not budgeted one cent for a reduction in the budget rebate, meaning that british taxpayers could end up paying higher taxes. we will look closely at the latest budget proposals expected from the presidency today. i am sorry that we did not have the benefit of hearing these in parliament this morning, but we will judge them in part on how much british taxpayers will have to pay for their government’s mishandling of the issues and on whether there is any evidence that the prime minister has received any solid and bankable commitments on fundamental reform in europe. as far as we are concerned, whatever our political positions, we need to have sensible and progressive reform. under this presidency, the omens have not been good.
(the speaker spoke irish) mr president, there are many difficulties with the british presidency’s proposals for the financial perspectives, which the chairman of my group, mr wurtz, and others have outlined here this morning. those include lower than previously proposed amounts for rural development, cohesion funds for the newest member states, culture, youth and health and consumer protection. i would plead in favour of one aspect, however: the funding for the eu programme to support peace in the north of ireland. that is necessary if we are to continue the valuable work of peace-building, tackling discrimination and promoting national reconciliation. it is imperative that the opportunity for peace in ireland is not squandered, which means that there is also an onus on the british government to ensure political progress in ireland in 2006.
mr president, i would like to begin by apologising to the presidency. when it agreed to open negotiations with croatia, i confess i suspected that a rather grubby deal had been done to overcome austria’s objections to turkey. i was wrong. we now know that croatia was cooperating very closely with the hague and providing information which led to the very significant and important arrest of general gotovina and i congratulate the presidency on that progress. if it is not too much of a shock for mr alexander, i would also like to congratulate the presidency on its cooperation with the parliament, which has led to huge progress on some very difficult dossiers, noticeably reach, the long-running eurovignette saga, and hopefully data retention. i also understand the presidency is making great strides, or trying to make great strides, in introducing transparency to the council and i would hope mr alexander could tell us what progress he has made on that. nonetheless there is still a lack of transparency in the council, so i wonder whether he could just lift the veil momentarily by answering some questions. which net payers, apart from the uk, are prepared to pay more money to solve the budget problem? which net recipients are prepared to receive less in order to solve the budget problem? which net recipients from old europe are prepared to receive less in order to show solidarity to new europe? how many countries in the council advocate spending programmes so long as they do not have to pay for them? which of the main beneficiaries of the cap are arguing for further reform? which cap beneficiaries are prepared, like the uk government, to make public the information about where the money goes? by that i mean information that shows that the benefit is felt not by farmers but by multinational processors of food and big landowners. which finance ministers are prepared to sign an annual statement of assurance of their accounts, which will put an end to the annual saga of us failing to sign off the accounts because of the failure of member states to control their accounts? which member states come to the council meeting and ask not what europe can do for them, but what they can do for europe?
the presidency has a thankless task in trying to reach an agreement in council on the financial perspectives. it has to reconcile the six countries who wanted to limit eu spending to 1% of gdp with those who want a much larger budget. it has to deal with mr chirac who wants to ring-fence all agricultural spending, from which his country benefits far more than most. it has to deal also with the expectations of the new member states and with longstanding members who wish to preserve their privileges – such as spain which wants to remain a net beneficiary to a greater extent than the much poorer central european countries, and luxembourg which, in per capita terms, is both the richest member states in and the biggest net beneficiary. it has to deal with all those who think that a cost-free –for them! – way to increase resources is to cut the british rebate – although even with the rebate britain’s net contribution is far higher than that of france and italy. i wish the presidency well in finding an agreement which will serve as concil’s negotiating position for the definitive negotiation with parliament.
it saddens me as a proud scottish european that the uk has represented scotland so badly during the presidency, and everything i have heard in this debate confirms my view that the uk has lost friends and influence on our behalf by this wrongheaded stance on the budget. the proposals announced today fail scotland and they fail europe also. i have no doubt that they will be comprehensively rejected by other member states and with 11 of those states smaller than scotland i am more convinced than ever that there is no substitute for independence in europe.
in writing. i welcome the proposed agreement between parliament and council. it achieves the right balance between allowing police and judicial authorities acces to the data on electronic communications, and the protection of privacy. its approval by both a majority in the elected parliament and by a qualified majority of governments in the council is proof of its acceptability to a wide range of opinions. it reasonably allows police and judicial authorities to access, under certain conditions when investigating serious crimes, data on past electronic communications: that is, who has called who, not the content of the conversations. i am nonetheless shocked at the tactic of some of those who oppose it. i have received letters, emails and representations from people who fear that governments will be able to listen to their telephone conversations and read their emails! why do they think that? because they have been told this by people who should know better, including some in this chamber who are willing to deliberately mislead the public in pursuit of their political goals.
in writing. i voted against the proposal on data retention. the european parliament has been used to by-pass national parliaments which have rejected similar proposals. our parliament has forfeited certain rights by the process we have adopted on this directive. i hope this behaviour will act as a warning and not a precedent when we handle future dossiers in this field under co-decision: the reward we were offered by council for being a "politically mature" institution, capable of agreeing with council. we have today, set up the framework for a surveillance state. it is not clear to me that this will make us more secure and safe from crime. this directive no longer has crime prevention as a goal. we are therefore using an intelligence-led approach which relies on public confidence and support to be effective. mass surveillance threatens that confidence. we have alternatives to such surveillance and should have adopted them.
in writing. following the vote on the alvaro report, i believe that labour meps were successful in getting stronger safeguards concerning the security of communication data and in specifying penal and administrative sanctions for abusive use of retained data. in representing london, the city with one of the highest numbers of internet service providers in the eu, safeguards are important.
in writing. i voted for the libe committee's position, but against the overall resolution. hurried law is usually bad law. this has been rushed through by the uk presidency of the council. it is tragic that two large mep groups have passed this in a single reading rather than have a thorough scrutiny. it has many defects. the definition of "serious crimes" is uncertain, being left to 25 separate governments to each decide in their own way. the question of costs is unclear. the demanders, the governments, should pay, not the individual citizen. the inclusion of emails was badly thought through. the industry was never formally consulted. hotmail and yahoo emails are excluded. in the 2004 madrid bombings, no emails were sent by terrorists ; instead one wrote a draft on yahoo, and his accomplices logged on and read it. so much "spam" email is sent. why do the governments want to preserve spam ? the text gives too much latitude to the 25 governments to do what they wish. it allows them to decide the details themselves, and cannot be amended by national parliaments. this is an unsatisfactory law. i am proud to have opposed it in its present form.
in writing. nobody would deny that any measures which would help in the fight aganist terrorism should be investigated, but data retention as proposed will just not achieve the desired aim. worse than that, i fear it will infringe liberty, and add unnecessary costs to business and consumers without actually making any of our citizens safer. this is a flawed proposal and the parliament has done us a disservice today by adopting it.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the presumed use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the investigator for the council of europe, dick marty, has called allegations of illegal extraordinary renditions credible. if he concludes that they are true, the question for us is what is the degree of complicity of eu governments? they are all rattling off the denials, but this has not satisfied those who have expressed concern or deterred calls for parliamentary or judicial inquiries in a string of european countries. no wonder the us is irritated by european governments’ attempts to evade responsibility and i am glad that the president-in-office talked about taking that responsibility. secretary of state rice pointedly said last week that the us has respected the sovereignty of other countries. that means: ‘don’t rock the boat, guys – we are all in this together’. a feasible scenario is that, in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, understandably keen to offer help to the us in tracking down the perpetrators of that abominable crime, european governments offered intelligence help and facilities to their us ally. however, as the years have gone by, they have got deeper into the mire of illegality. only by cleaning house and starting afresh on the basis of real respect for the rule of law can we convince our citizens that we are not sacrificing our principles. the problem is that we are living in an alice in wonderland world. the president-in-office said that secretary of state rice’s statements last week should be taken at face value. however, if the us does not tolerate torture inside or outside the united states, why is it resisting the mccain amendment? why have we had so many twists and turns by the bush administration, redefining torture so that it does not cover waterboarding, prolonged shackling or induced hypothermia? secretary of state rice’s statement begged more questions than it answered. i welcome mr frattini’s statement that we have a duty to investigate. i also welcome his offer of assistance to the council of europe. this parliament must avoid duplicating dick marty’s investigation. however, we need a mechanism to draw all the threads together and that means a temporary committee. then we can assess, in the light of article 7 of the treaty on european union, what evidence is produced. i also welcome mr frattini’s statement that finding out the truth will strengthen our fight against terrorism by upholding our values. i agree with mr poettering – that does not happen often – that this is not an anti-american project. helping save america and europe from the disastrous policies of the bush administration is a pro-american exercise.
you wicked girl!
i see we have some americans in the chamber!
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i judge this to have been a valuable debate and i am grateful to all honourable members for the varied contributions we have heard this afternoon. as i made clear in my introductory remarks to this debate, the security and liberty of all our people are important issues, perhaps the most important issues that our governments presently face. i also said that it was right for democracies and their institutions to debate the questions that arise when defending both principles in our modern world, vital that we recognise the unprecedented threat from contemporary terrorism and the longevity of that threat, and crucial that we all respect the rule of law in the process. i said it was important to recognise the need for governments to take tangible steps to fulfil their principal responsibility – the security of their people, right to respect the word of other sovereign governments including our allies, and incumbent on european governments and institutions to lead by example and conduct informed debate. overall i think we have achieved those objectives in the conversation and discussions we have had on the threat this afternoon. the images of the terrorist attacks – on commuter and underground trains in madrid and london, places of worship, diplomatic premises, banks in istanbul, hotels in jordan, residential compounds in saudi arabia, and restaurants and bars in bali – the list goes on – are not computer-generated. they are a reality with which we live. they are the new and frightening reality of our modern world. the contemporary terrorist is not content to limit himself or herself to conventional attacks. if he can, he will acquire and use chemical and biological means to reach his ends. on respect for the rule of law, i mentioned the question of torture – a central issue that featured in our debate – in my opening remarks. let me reiterate the position of the united kingdom government. the prohibition against torture is absolute. the british government, like all european governments, unreservedly condemns its use. we never use it for any purpose, including to obtain information. we never instigate, condone or otherwise support others using it. indeed, we condemn it. we have worked hard with our international partners to eradicate an abhorrent practice. on government action to counter the threat within the rule of law, i am pleased that under the uk presidency the european union has agreed a new counter-terrorism strategy and thereby provided a clearer framework in which member states can take forward their national and european work, striking a balance between citizens’ rights to life and to liberty. these are not just words. the recent extradition of a man from italy to the united kingdom to face charges connected with the terrorist attacks in london in july would not have taken place so quickly but for european arrest warrants. that is a practical example of european union counter-terrorism and judicial cooperation. on respect for sovereign governments, i remind honourable members of the words of the united states secretary of state on 5 december 2005. she stated, and again i quote directly for completeness: ‘the united states has respected – and will continue to respect – the sovereignty of other countries. the united states does not transport, and has not transported, detainees from one country to another for the purpose of interrogation using torture. the united states does not use the airspace or the airports of any country for the purpose of transporting a detainee to a country where he or she will be tortured. the united states has not transported anyone, and will not transport anyone, to a country when we believe he will be tortured. where appropriate, the united states seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured’. of course, a number of honourable members have raised the issue of the response of european union member state governments to the allegations that have received wide publicity in recent months. let me just for a moment digress from my responsibilities as the president-in-office of the european union and share with this chamber the approach of the united kingdom government to dealing with these very serious allegations. we have researched the question of us rendition via the united kingdom carefully and we have not identified any occasions since 11 september 2001 or earlier during the period in office of the bush administration when we received a request from the united states for a rendition through united kingdom territory or airspace, nor are we otherwise aware of such a case. on providing a lead to our constituents with informed discussion, it is right that the council of europe be allowed to conduct a factually based examination of how its members ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of the european convention on human rights, which has featured prominently in this afternoon’s debate. this debate today has raised numerous points – many held with great conviction – for the council of europe to address in its coming inquiry. for its part, i can assure this chamber that the united kingdom will respond fully to the council’s queries. i trust and hope that other member states will do so as well.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the debate this afternoon has produced a view which is widely shared by this parliament and which i fully share. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the one hand, we must be clear and discover the whole truth - a truth which may be liked or not liked - but it is still a truth and we must ascertain it and avoid, as president shultz rightly said, hasty judgments. i would like to speak in particular to mr geremek, whom i have listened to attentively. in my introduction, i said exactly what you wanted to hear about your country, poland, namely that i was respectfully acknowledging the solemn denial by the polish authorities and that i do not think that one can speak of european countries being accused or suspected, but that one must seek the truth with regard to the whole of europe, all the countries of europe and all the candidate countries. i have exactly ruled out the possibility of saying that this is a truth-telling action directed only at poland and/or romania. the truth must be established everywhere. part of the debate on the core values of europe concerns both the right to security of citizens - and i believe that on this point the european parliament has already said on several occasions that international cooperation with the united states is indispensable if we are to succeed in the fight against terrorism - and the duty of the european union and all democratic countries to respect the dignity of every person. today you voted by a large majority for an important measure, a measure which is useful in the fight against terrorism, which achieves a balance between security and freedom. this is a good example which i think we should all follow. an example of balancing the fight against terrorism and the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. as europeans we have worked together with the united states against terrorism and we will continue to do so. for example, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to say that the extradition treaty specifically on terrorist suspects, signed in 2003, has been ratified by the united states of america but has not been ratified by the member countries of the european union. you understand how important it would be to have a clear extradition treaty in force today, containing firm rules including, of course, the prohibition of inhuman treatment. this shows us that unfortunately we europeans must also do something a little faster. finally, i believe that it is possible to interpret the action and the effort for truth as not directed against the united states but, as someone has said, as an action for a truth that would strengthen us all. we'd all be stronger, one outcome or another, because the truth, i repeat, can make us discover something or make us discover that this something didn't happen. in any case, the truth would strengthen us, because in the american constitution, in the treaty on european union, in the charter of nice, in the european convention on human rights, in all these documents - and i quoted the american constitution first - the principle of human rights is fundamental and absolute. i wonder why we should not work together in this area too, so that those solemn principles are applied. this will be my personal commitment.
i have received six motions for resolutionssee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10.00.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by geoffrey van orden (a6-0342/2005), on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of preparedness for eu membership of bulgaria (2005/2204(ini)), and- the report by pierre moscovici (a6-0344/2005), on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the extent of romania's readiness for accession to the european union (2005/2205(ini)).
rapporteur. – mr president, it is only six weeks since this house last debated bulgaria’s progress towards european union accession. i have been back to bulgaria since then, as indeed has the president of parliament. we met the president and the prime minister of bulgaria and many ministers. i visited a children’s home in an area that had been badly affected by floods and a factory that had benefited from eu funding. i had discussions with the foreign minister, the interior minister, the president of the supreme court and police chiefs, including those running the national organisation for combating organised crime. i also met the chairmen of key committees of the parliament and representatives of all political parties. none of them seemed to be under any illusion about the work that needs to be done, or indeed the urgency of addressing the areas that have been highlighted by the commission and the parliament as being still of serious concern. many however, are increasingly alarmed that bulgaria’s accession is being caught up in the wider controversy over the future extent of the eu and over the eu budget. mr president, bearing in mind that i am otherwise speaking for my current political group in this debate, i hope you will excuse me if i make two personal comments on these matters. firstly, many of us are disappointed that following the defeat of the constitution, the opportunity has not been seized to have a wide ranging and open discussion about the nature and direction of the eu in order to take full account of the real wishes of our citizens and make it more relevant to the needs of the 21st century. secondly, as mr barroso observed this morning, there is a structural problem in the budget. i am not sure that he and i would agree on what that problem is. to my mind, it is the fact that some 40% of the eu budget is spent on the common agricultural policy and it is also the fact that the united kingdom, year on year for twenty years, has been paying double the amount in net terms into the eu budget, even with her abatement, in comparison with a country such as france that has a similar-sized economy. let me revert now to my rapporteur’s role. the point is that accession countries such as bulgaria should certainly not be disadvantaged because of those wider issues. the timing of accession should not be vulnerable to unrelated concerns about future enlargement. let us remember that neither bulgaria nor romania form part of future enlargement rounds; they are part of the previous enlargement. their accession is already secured. indeed, their budgetary arrangements for the first two years after accession are also secure. i am sure the commissioner will confirm this. bulgaria’s financial provisions are fixed from 2007 to 2009 in the accession treaty, title iii, which was signed on 25 april this year. these determine the amounts bulgaria will pay into the eu budget in various forms, as well as what she will receive in cohesion funding, nuclear decommissioning assistance, the transition facility, the schengen facility, agriculture payments and other structural actions. so, leaving aside any negative attitudes to enlargement in general that have begun to develop in some countries, what are the substantive obstacles to be overcome by bulgaria in the next few months? firstly, the accession treaty must be ratified by all member states. so far, only seven have done so, parliament urges the remaining 18 member states to ratify as soon as possible. secondly, there is the question of the precise timing of accession. parliament supports the common objective of bulgaria’s accession to the eu on 1 january 2007, provided that certain matters of serious concern are dealt with. without this firm target, a major incentive to increased effort by the bulgarian authorities is removed. they are making an increased effort. i can report that in the past month a further six major legislative acts have progressed through the bulgarian national assembly and i am advised that key constitutional changes that we have called for will be presented to the national assembly this year. however, while legislative change is essential, i cannot re-emphasise too strongly the need for tangible and concrete outcomes. we must see the evidence of change, particularly in the vital areas of justice and policing and the fight against organised crime and corruption. it is this area, more than any other, that has been the focus of my report on behalf of parliament. there are, of course, other areas of concern, including child welfare and the support for and integration of the roma communities. i commend my report to parliament. it had the widest possible support in the committee on foreign affairs, and i regret that the gue/ngl group has chosen to re-table amendments that were rejected by the committee. with the exception of my own amendment 16, i do not recommend support for any other amendments. i urge the bulgarian authorities to take very seriously the need to deliver on reform. the changes are, of course, beneficial in themselves, not just as a prerequisite for eu membership. i ask the commission to ensure that parliament remains fully involved on a timely basis in any consideration of the use of safeguard clauses. 1 january 2007 is an achievable date for bulgaria’s accession to the european union.
mr president, i believe romania remains on track for accession by 1 january 2007. however, the new government must continue reforming the judiciary, upholding media freedom, enabling property restitution, protecting minorities and children and fighting organised crime. particular attention must also be paid to the reform of public administration and the fight against corruption, including delivery on the promise of indictments of high-level officials alleged to have committed serious offences. the situation of disabled and mentally ill people is also of concern. romania’s control of its borders and collection of customs dues – with the settlement of the snake island dispute in the black sea – is important, as is improving food hygiene, environmental pollution and intellectual property protection. however, romania’s recent handling of the avian flu outbreak was excellent. romania continues to comply with the criterion of being a functioning market economy, but there are still concerns on state aid and bankruptcy laws. lastly, i want to raise the tragic issue of international adoptions, which affects hopeful parents from the european union, the united states and israel. i urge the romanian government to consider concluding these adoptions, in particular the 1 100 pipeline cases of orphans and abandoned children for whom caring foreign families had registered adoption petitions prior to the january 2005 ban. that ban was largely brought about at the request of the european union, eager to clean up a previously chaotic and sometimes corrupt system. the un convention on the child does not forbid international adoption. it simply makes it the last permanent solution. the romanian government should seriously reconsider the heartless position it is currently maintaining.
mr president, i first visited romania for a skiing trip during the christmas/new year period in 1989. the romanian flags being waved then had holes where the symbol was cut out in the middle. sixteen years on, we have mr moscovici’s report which shows quite amazing achievements and huge progress. i speak now as one who has been a member of the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee since 1994 and who has visited many times, seeing the significant advances, particularly in the fields of freedom of expression, justice, minorities and children. what we are talking about is reuniting the people of europe. people who share a common culture, a common heritage, a common history and who have great linguistic links. romania is european in every sense; its mere name gives that away. i look forward to the day when romanian colleagues are in this chamber as elected members of this european parliament. (applause)
mr president, these reports state the wish of the majority in this parliament to see bulgaria and romania join the european union by 1 january 2007. however, these reports contain many instances detailing their total unsuitability to join according to the eu’s own membership criteria. these reports highlight their levels of corruption, the proliferation of organised crime, and the need for the reform of their legal and economic systems among many other things. it is unlikely that these countries will be able to transform themselves into the paragons of virtue they are supposed to be before they can join in one year’s time. but we all know that sadly it does not matter what state they are in. it does not matter what their levels of corruption and organised crime are. they are going to be welcomed in anyway. their membership is part of the grand plan for the creation of a united states of europe, and all other factors are subordinate to that ambition.
president-in-office, thank you for that reply. i understand that, as you said, no agreement was reached. it is becoming very clear that a lot of member states that are trying to get rid of the individual opt-out – which you are working to retain, as i am – are trying to get around the use of the opt-out, either by using autonomous workers as a way of opting out or by making sure that there are multiple contracts, i.e. two or three contracts for one employee, which makes the whole idea of the working time directive seem ludicrous. i should be grateful if you could say whether the socialist group of meps, including the labour meps, might support us now on the retention of the individual opt-out?
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect, it is not the british presidency that has been inventing responses to the working time directive. let me assure the honourable member that we remain committed to securing a european solution that respects national labour practices whilst providing appropriate levels of worker protection and promoting european competitiveness in line with europe’s jobs and growth objectives.
i should like to congratulate the presidency and indeed those other countries within the council that recognise the importance of retaining the opt-out. i know this is a difficult dossier which all of us would like to see resolved some way or another. although the ‘double deal’ of the opt-out is potentially on the table, and taking into account the issue of on-call time, given that it is clearly impossible to do the double deal, is it not at least still sensible for you and/or the austrian presidency to try and clear up the issue of on-call time in isolation?
president-in-office of the council. as the honourable member will be aware, article 289 of the ec treaty provides that the seat of the institutions of the community shall be determined by common accord of the governments of the member states. in accordance with the protocol (8) annexed to the ec treaty, and i quote directly from it: ‘the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg where the twelve periods of monthly plenary sessions, including the budget session, shall be held’. the council has not discussed the question of energy efficiency and the monthly movement of the european parliament between brussels and strasbourg.
is this key issue not a sort of litmus test for the adaptability of the union? energy saving was not an issue in europe 50 years ago but it is now and the council and parliament agree on that. the public is entitled to some joined-up thinking. so, as you say, it is in the treaty but it is up to member state governments to change that. therefore will the council agree to include discussion on a single seat for the parliament in the forthcoming plan d post-constitution debate?
president-in-office of the council. let me reply, firstly, by saying that the spirit of the honourable member's question suggested that the process of treaty change could be easy or quick. i have to say that one needs only to reflect – during this period of reflection – on the fate of the draft constitutional treaty in the hands of the voters of france and the netherlands to call that assertion somewhat into question. i certainly take seriously the question of energy efficiency and there have been various steps taken by the european union – commendably – in that regard. however, again, if this is a matter which is of concern to the honourable member, i would suggest that, given the very heavy programme that we face in the next couple of days in relation to future financing, it might be an issue better directed towards our successors.
it is not just a matter of energy efficiency, but of financial efficiency. the eur 300 million a year spent on bringing parliament here for part-sessions amounts to eur 2 billion over a financial perspective. you mentioned the need to ratify any change to this system. seeing that the own-resources decision is likely to need national ratification, could not a few extra clauses that would save the european taxpayer an enormous amount of money be added at the same time?
president-in-office of the council. i do not wish to intrude on what appears to be an interparliamentary debate now on the relative merits of brussels and strasbourg. suffice to say, on the legal basis for the establishment of parliament, i have nothing to add to my previous answer.
president-in-office of the council. the council is not in a position to comment on the ranking of the member states in the united nations human poverty index 2004. the joint council-commission report on social protection and social inclusion provides useful information on policies for combating poverty within member states. there is no single european social model. although we share a common and distinctly european commitment to social justice and, indeed, solidarity, there is enormous variety in national responses to welfare and social challenges within our union. it is right that the different models should reflect the very different traditions and practices in individual member states. heads of state and government agreed back in october in hampton court that, whilst the operation of their social systems was a matter for individual member states, europe needed economic reforms and social modernisation to safeguard its values and meet the challenges and opportunities of globalisation and demographic change. this agreement will build on the outcome of the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy agreed at the european council in march, which set out a new strategic focus on jobs and on growth. the spring european council specifically reaffirmed that strengthening social cohesion would remain a core objective of the union and that modernising social protection and fostering social inclusion were key priorities.
president-in-office of the council. i shall endeavour to answer at least the first part of the honourable member’s question. firstly, if she is talking about solidarity, i recognise that is a concept that is of relevance to us, as is social justice, not simply within the borders of member states or european union, but far beyond the boundaries of the european union. that is why it is a matter of immense pride to me that, in recent months, we have seen a commitment from european development ministers, and then a decision endorsed by european finance ministers, to effectively double the level of european overseas development assistance, from usd 40 billion to usd 80 billion. i make no apology, therefore, and in no way resile from the fact that every member in this house should feel huge pride in this matter as we seek to meet our obligations towards the world’s poorest people. in relation to the honourable member’s specific question in relation to the services directive, the charge is often levelled at the british presidency that an element hostile to the founding principles of the european union is present in britain’s national approach towards this union. i believe in completing the single market and i believe the services directive, given the original terms of the treaty of rome, has a contribution to make towards finishing and completing that single market. however, we must recognise that the market has to be balanced by the kind of social funding which has been provided historically within this union. that is why, on the second point raised in relation to the coming financial prospective, i want to see the position articulated by the british presidency this afternoon, the second negotiating box, form the basis on which agreement can be reached. the sums of money in question are considerable and will provide the basis on which not just the new accession countries but all countries can strengthen their economies and thereby strengthen their capability to secure the very solidarity and social justice so often discussed in this parliament.
president-in-office of the council. there is an important gender perspective towards the policies that we should advocate for our welfare states, but it is right to recognise that there is, as i said in my introductory remarks to this question, a diversity of social models within europe. it is a matter of profound concern to me that 20 million fellow european citizens are out of work. upholding the european social model, as is often suggested, is of little comfort to those 20 million citizens. the necessary practical steps must be taken to secure the economic reforms that will create the prosperity to provide further opportunity for those individuals. the core insight that the surest means to tackle poverty is to provide somebody with a job – one of my main political convictions – must also be recognised.
may i say again that i welcome your remarks about there being no such thing as a single european social model. i believe that is absolutely right, but could you confirm to me and colleagues whether, in making that remark, you feel that you are just saying that on behalf of the presidency, or are you speaking on behalf of the council as a whole?
president-in-office of the council. i stand by the answer i have just given in terms of european law. in relation to the canaries in particular, however, parliament should be aware that the nuts level 2 region of the canaries will benefit from an additional envelope of eur 100 million over the 2007-2013 period under the envisaged proposals.
president-in-office of the council. i hope that we are able to secure that budget framework. the important first step is to secure the agreement at the european council on the future financial perspective and i assure the honourable member that we will be giving it our very best endeavours in the hours and days ahead.
president-in-office of the council. it would not be appropriate for the council to comment on the specific recent events in france, but while member states are and remain primarily responsible for the adoption and implementation of their national integration policies, the council seeks to provide support to them, in particular by promoting the exchange of experience and best practice. the hague programme for strengthening freedom, security and justice in the european union, approved by the european council in november 2004, has invited member states, the council and the commission to promote the structural exchange of experience and information on integration, supported by the development of a widely accessible website on the internet. in december, ministers agreed on the need to reinforce cooperation on integration, in particular via the network of national contact points on integration. this commitment built on the commission communication: a common agenda for integration of third-country nationals in the european union. this integration network, established in 2003 and supported by the commission, has played an important role in the framework of the exchange of information and best practice and has provided very valuable contributions in the drafting of the ‘handbook on integration for policy-makers and practitioners’, published by the commission in 2004. an expanded handbook is due to be published next year.
i should like to ask the president-in-office to continue the good work done during the uk presidency of looking at the best possible models of diversity and of best practice and integration. it is valuable work, which we must keep up in the coming months. it is a very serious issue for eu member states, in particular eu cities. as this is your last council question time, let me take this opportunity to say what many members across this house have said to me: that you have answered criticism with good grace and you and your civil service team sitting behind you will leave this presidency with a reputation for listening to members and making every effort to answer their questions.
president-in-office of the council. given that the period of reflection will itself extend beyond the british presidency, it somehow seems fitting that the final question that i answer in this parliament, as the representative of the british presidency, anticipates what will be an important subject in the months to come. perhaps with your indulgence, madam president, i could also take this opportunity – given that you have intimated that this is the final question to be answered – to thank all the members of the council secretariat for their very considerable hard work in producing the draft replies in the course of our presidency to the questions that have been raised by members of this parliament. rather like an author in the foreword to a book, i would, at this point, respectfully say that all the mistakes are entirely my own, and i am sure all the factual accuracy is reflective of the considerable expertise of the council secretariat. to address myself directly to the honourable member’s question, as he is aware, heads of state and government agreed on 17 june that there was a need for a period of reflection to enable a broad debate to take place within each member state. provisions for reform within the constitutional treaty – and i have certainly experienced this in the course of our presidency – may be sensible to one member state but controversial to another. therefore, the focus of the united kingdom presidency has been to engage consciously in a wider debate about the future of europe. it was agreed to come back to the matter in the first half of 2006, in the spring council of the austrian presidency, to make an overall assessment of the national debates and agree on how to proceed at that stage.
if you indulge me, may i take the opportunity to thank the representatives of the presidency for all the help and assistance they have given my colleagues over the recent months. may i thank the president-in-office in particular; i have much enjoyed these exchanges over the recent weeks, taking place in a rather empty public library though, sometimes it may seem. i welcome the opportunity to come back to an oft-repeated subject. every head of government has publicly supported the principle that the council should meet in public when it is debating legislative acts. if the fine words and good intentions of the president-in-office could deliver firm results, the council would have ensured that changes in its rules of procedure were now on the way to being put into practice. instead we have the suggestion that the council will review the functioning of these measures in future presidencies and examine how further to increase openness and transparency, including the possibility of amending the rules of procedure. will the president-in-office say where the substance is in this proposal?
president-in-office of the council. let me seek to answer the honourable member’s question directly. firstly, we will both recall the terms of the statement made by our prime minister before this assembly at the outset of the british presidency and that has informed the approach that i have taken to this issue of transparency in the council. it explained the basis on which i first sought the agreement of colleagues within the united kingdom government and the process on that basis that we then took forward with other countries in the course of our presidency. the presidency tabled an options paper on improving council transparency in november 2005. the proposals have been discussed by the antici group and by both coreper i and ii, and we now aim to agree council conclusions on 20 december. the honourable member will have to wait a little longer before, i hope, we secure the kind of agreement that will give him the satisfaction he seeks this evening.
on the wider package of the constitutional treaty as a whole, does the president-in-office of the council accept that the european council was right, in the light of the fact that a majority of member states have actually ratified this constitutional treaty? it was right not to declare the text dead, but to inaugurate a period of reflection – one which has been much more about the context than about the text. does he agree that in due course, once we are in a new context, we will have to return to the question of the text and what to do about it, if not in 2006, then in 2007?
president-in-office of the council. i find myself in agreement and sympathy with the point the honourable member makes. the british government, even before assuming the office of the presidency of the european union, argued for the need for a period of reflection. we did not feel it was appropriate for any one government to make a unilateral declaration as to the status of the draft constitutional treaty, given the fact that the constitutional treaty was owned by the totality of the members of the european union. it is right to recognise that, even before the decisive votes in france and the netherlands, there had been, in the case of spain, a referendum which had found in favour of the draft constitutional treaty and a whole range of other countries had in turn ratified the draft constitutional treaty by parliamentary procedure. that is why i hold to the position that was first articulated immediately prior to the british presidency. during our presidency we have maintained that position. in the course of that presidency our prime minister has made clear his personal judgement that he believes it is necessary to get the politics in a better place before returning to the institutional question. but in the course of this presidency we have also made it clear that we regard it as necessary to have the kind of practical, sensible reforms that will allow a union of 25 to operate more effectively than on the basis of the present treaty arrangements.
if i could join with other colleagues from the united kingdom to thank you for your efforts over the last six months and also say that, in connection with the constitution, we were delighted that there were two ‘no’ votes in holland and france and we will not – unexpectedly to you – be demanding a referendum in the united kingdom if any part of the constitution is proposed for bringing forward in future.
president-in-office of the council. i am deeply conscious of my responsibilities, not least in my final answer, to seek to answer on behalf of the presidency and not simply indulge in what would be a fascinating debate with a domestic political opponent in relation to their present position, not only in terms of where they sit within this chamber but where they sit on the issue of the draft constitutional treaty. the statement i have just heard is clearly in contradiction to at least some of the assertions that have come from other conservative colleagues in relation to some of the practical and sensible changes of which i have just spoken. however, i have a clear feeling that there are much bigger issues at stake for the modern conservative party in terms of its engagement with europe than even the answer we have just heard.
i wondered whether the minister would like to make any comment on the possibility of british conservative meps sitting on the same bench as mrs mussolini?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schwab, and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and constructive cooperation. without it, there would have been no agreement at this second reading. the situation today could be aptly described by the old german proverb: what lasts long, finally becomes good. the machinery directive has a very long history. it was originally set up on the basis of a recommendation by the molitor group, a precursor to the current commission's better regulation initiative. when the commission presented the proposal for a directive at the beginning of 2001, after long consultations with all the parties concerned, no one expected that it would take five years and 43 record-breaking council working group meetings to complete this revision, not to mention the work done by the european parliament. the reason for the lengthy discussions was the considerable size and complexity of the machinery sector covered by this directive, which includes a very wide range of products - machinery, mechanical equipment and components. but it is a sector of central importance to the economy of the european union, one of the strongest industrial sectors. the machinery sector produced goods worth eur 402 billion in 2004. it employed over 2.6 million engineers, technicians and largely highly qualified workers in the european union. the production of machinery far exceeds that of japan and the united states. the european union is the world's largest exporter of machinery and mechanical equipment, worth eur 150 billion, ahead of the usa with eur 62 billion and japan with eur 67 billion. this shows that we are dealing with a sector which can rightly be described as a jewel of european industry and which therefore really deserves special attention. the recommendation to amend the text of the common position brings us very close to completing the legislative process for the drafting of the machinery directive. i am pleased to inform you that the commission can fully accept the result of the compromise between parliament and the council. the result is indeed a substantial improvement on the current machinery directive 98/37/ec and a good example of better regulation, as mr schwab has already said. legal certainty has been increased by clarifying the scope and by clearing up any ambiguities. there had been various interpretations. this is gonna stop. we have a much clearer distinction with other directives, such as the elevator directive or the low-voltage directive. the implementation, including market surveillance and the control of the bodies responsible for certification by the member states, which have been notified to us, has also been made more efficient by fundamental changes made by parliament at first reading. manufacturers of certain types of machinery which have been added to the scope of the directive will now also benefit from the internal market. users and workers will benefit from improved health and consumer protection as a result of the experience gained with the current directive. as regards the very controversial question of the relationship between other marks and the ce marking, i would like to confirm that this will be clarified in the context of the revision of the so-called new approach, as explained in the following commission statement. i read again the formal statement of the commission: 'without prejudice to respect for community legislation, the commission, within the context of the revision of the new approach planned for mid-2006, will clarify the conditions for the affixing of other markings, whether national, european or private, in relation to the ce marking. other the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first statement is: the parliament, the council and the commission declare that, in order to cover all aspects related to the health and safety of agricultural and forestry tractors in one harmonising directive, directive 2003/37/ec on the type-approval of agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units needs to be modified in order to address all the relevant risks of the machinery directive. such a modification of directive 2003/37/ec should include an amendment of the machinery directive, in order to delete the expression for the risks in article 1 (2) (e), first indent. other the second declaration is as follows: the commission recognises the need to include in the agricultural and forestry tractors directives further requirements for risks not yet covered by those directives. to this end, the commission is considering appropriate measures that include references to the united nations regulations, cn and iso standards, and oecd codes. other i hope that this will resolve the remaining questions to everyone's satisfaction. i thank you again for the really good and constructive cooperation, and i thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr schwab, on the excellent job he has done on a very complex and difficult text, made more difficult because he took it over from our previous rapporteur and colleague, mr wieland. i am very pleased with what the commissioner said and with the agreement that we have reached to secure a second reading confirmation with the council. i would like to pick up one or two of the policy issues. as the commissioner indicated, it has been a long and sometimes bumpy road towards the final agreement on this very complex text. looking forward, and in the light of his determined commitment to the better regulation agenda, we need to keep a close eye on the implementation and effectiveness of this directive. i fear that it may be extremely costly to implement and we need to make sure that his services are keeping an eye on it and that it is not being duplicated by the national regulation. i welcome what he said about different marks, but we need to give serious consideration to the cost of regulatory compliance. in that connection, i want to make two other points. i am pleased that the council has recognised that it has to speed through the issue of tractors, because the lack of a harmonised type-approval process for a very important sector is scandalous, and member states should be ashamed of their foot-dragging on this. i want to draw his attention to another crucial machinery category, which is also partly affected by this directive, which is the whole issue about road-going machinery. i recently went to a conference of construction equipment manufacturers. they told me that, on their estimates, 70% of their research and development costs are absorbed by complying with regulation. how can we run a competitive european economy when we saddle a major industry with those sorts of compliance costs? i think we may have problems with this machinery directive, but the commissioner must address that. i want to bring a delegation from the construction equipment manufacturers to see him as soon as possible to address their issues as well.
rapporteur. – mr president, frequently in this house, speakers in a debate will pay some kind of tribute to the rapporteur. this ranges from a rather guarded expression of thanks for a great deal of hard work, to the offer of congratulations on the production of an excellent report. were i in that situation on the present occasion, i could not in all honesty take the congratulatory line, for i believe the report to have some obvious shortcomings. that is not to say that it does not make very valuable points, or that there is anything in it with which i am in substantive disagreement. i am very grateful, too, to colleagues for the interest that they have taken. my concern is two-fold: first, the extent of redundancy in the text – there may be circumstances in which repetition is used to good effect, but i do not consider that this is one of them; secondly, the range of issues covered – i believe that the european parliament should be taking seriously all aspects of the lives of women in the fisheries sector and doing its best to address the problems that affect them. but the original intention of this report was to concentrate on the role of women’s networks and their potential to contribute to the socio-economic fabric of fisheries-dependent communities. we have mentioned two of the parallels between their situation and that of women similarly engaged in the agricultural sector and of the possibility of joint action on their parts. that focus has been lost. i find that unfortunate, since women’s networks are central to achieving the other objectives itemised in the report. so, i shall state quite simply and briefly what my own message to the commission and council would be: please give your encouragement and support to the creation and development of women’s networks, at both domestic and pan-european levels. please also give your encouragement and support to their activities in diversifying local economies, in contributing to the development of the common fisheries policy and in providing a coordinated approach to tackling issues of common concern. encouragement and support, however, call for more than just a few kind words; they entail active assistance in accessing the necessary financial means and specific measures to remove all existing social and administrative barriers to women’s full participation and progress in all areas of the fisheries sector. commissioner, thank you for listening. i thank you, too, in anticipation of concrete actions to come.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member for her report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the law of the sea. the funding proposed by this regulation will be an essential part of the fisheries financial perspectives package for 2007-2013. next to the european fisheries fund, this regulation represents the legal basis for most other expenditure allowing the continuation of the common fisheries policy and, based on the commission’s original proposal for a financial perspective, it will cover more than eur 2.5 billion worth of spending in the seven year period from 2007-2013. the proposal aims to provide a more transparent and simplified framework for the execution of community financial interventions. it is geared towards improving the effectiveness of financial interventions in the field of control and enforcement, in the area of data collection and scientific advice, in the strengthening of the governance of the common fisheries policy, and in the area of international relations and the law of the sea. let me now turn to the amendments proposed in the report before us. the commission can accept amendment 1 and will continue to do what is possible within its competence to work towards ensuring the sustainability of the resources in third countries. whereas the commission is in agreement in principle on the substance of amendment 2, it has difficulty accepting the form of such an amendment. the proposed amendment could have the effect of restricting the scope of what is designed to be a broad and general paragraph dealing with the crucial aspect of control capacities of third counties. furthermore, the commission plans to concentrate on developing common objectives with third countries, rather than prescribing to them detailed means as to how to get to those objectives as different countries have different needs. amendments 3 to 8 should be considered together with amendment 17, since they quote objectives which were already covered in the council’s conclusions of 19 july 2004, regarding fisheries partnership agreements. however, the legal provisions of this regulation are not the right place for policy statements. the commission therefore considers that a reference to these conclusions in the recitals of the proposed regulation, as proposed by amendment 17, is the most appropriate way to include these aspects and can therefore accept amendment 17. as a consequence, the scope of amendments 3 to 8 will be covered through this recital. since the natura 2000 network falls under the community’s environmental policy, the commission cannot accept amendment 9 in a regulation which exclusively concerns the common fisheries policy. the commission will, however, ensure coherence of the common fisheries policy with environmental objectives. for similar reasons, the commission cannot accept amendment 10. in the framework of fisheries partnership agreements, the council conclusions referred to earlier require coherence between the objectives of the cfp and the objectives of other community policies such as environmental objectives. the commission appreciates the support the committee on fisheries has demonstrated and continues to demonstrate towards the regional advisory councils. the proposed amendment 11 clearly sets out the desire of the committee to see the role of the regional advisory councils facilitated through indefinite funding. whereas the commission is willing to explore options for funding beyond the currently prescribed five-year period, a commitment cannot be made at this stage since this would not be in line with the current regulation that has established the regional advisory councils, but this request can be reconsidered in the first evaluation of the functioning of the regional advisory councils three years after their establishment. on the cost of commissioning scientific advice, the commission is already paying independent and credible bodies to deliver the scientific advice. racs are welcome to highlight to the commission any need for scientific advice. however, the commission reserves its right to decide on the justification of such a request on a case-by-case basis and will lead the process of obtaining this advice. although the commission is in agreement in principle on the substance of amendment 12, it has difficulty accepting the form of such an amendment. the proposed amendment could have the effect of restricting the scope of what is designed to be a broad and general paragraph dealing with the objectives for fisheries partnership agreements. value for money is just one of the principles mentioned in the council conclusions of 19 july 2004 regarding fisheries partnership agreements, and it should not be highlighted individually to the detriment of the other principles and objectives defined in the council. the commission has difficulty in accepting amendment 13. most of the aspects mentioned in the amendment are covered either by the council conclusions on fisheries partnership agreements, or by the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. the commission agrees on the substance of amendment 14, but not on the form. in principle, the commission agrees to provide summaries and aggregations of the collected data on request or for specific needs, but it is not planned at this point automatically to issue this data in the form of a periodic publication or report. amendment 15 cannot be accepted by the commission, as fisheries partnership agreements are in essence based on a commercial relationship. the third country is responsible for and sovereign to spend its revenue under the agreement, in whole or in part, in support of its fisheries policy for the purposes jointly agreed in a common approach with the community. the parties will jointly review the results obtained by this policy. however, in this context, the commission cannot impose financial audits or on-the-spot checks on third countries without their agreement. for similar reasons, the commission cannot accept amendment 16. each fisheries partnership agreement contains provisions on the payment of funds, as well as on the use of the share of these funds foreseen for the fisheries policy of the third country. on the basis of indicators and benchmarks, both parties will jointly evaluate the results of this policy and, where appropriate, will make the necessary adjustments. as regards its national budget and financial administration, however, the third country is sovereign. as said before, the commission can accept amendment 17. concerning amendment 18, the commission welcomes the support from parliament to reinforce the budget for the common fisheries policy in the course of the negotiations on the 2007–2013 financial perspective. the proposed regulation, by definition, can be adopted only once the financial perspective has, hopefully, been agreed. therefore, adding a recital, as proposed in this amendment, is probably obsolete. the commission agrees on the substance of amendment 19, but not on the form. small-scale fisheries, as part of the catching sector, are already included as rac members by virtue of the rac decision. thus the commission already promotes their participation in racs as full members.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank all colleagues for their support so far for my report. this report replaces a number of existing legal measures which provide the basis for current funding beyond monies provided by the european fisheries fund. this is in line with the policy of achieving better regulation and simplification of legislation. it sets out objectives for: expenditure, rules for eligibility of expenditure, the level of the commission contribution and control measures. the key areas covered are: control and enforcement, data collection, scientific advice, governance of the cfp and international matters. the total budget foreseen for 2007-2013 is eur 2 625 million, although the actual amounts, as the commissioner has said, will depend on the eu budget negotiations. on control and enforcement, the aim is to improve the control of fishing activities in order to combat those fishing activities that are damaging the conservation of resources within and outside community waters. this is to be achieved by providing community financial support to member states to reduce weaknesses in their fisheries control programmes and by assisting coordination of control measures, particularly via the community fisheries control agency. within the area of data collection and scientific advice, community support will allow for the collection and management of the data needed to evaluate the state of fisheries resources and the fishing industry within and outside community waters. this will assist the member states to establish multiannual, aggregated and science-based data sets which incorporate biological, environmental and economic information. in the area of governance, the goal is to ensure the involvement of stakeholders at all stages of policy development up to and including implementation. in the area of international relations and the law of the sea, community financial support is given for the conclusion of fisheries agreements with third countries, including partnership agreements, and participation in international organisations relating to fisheries or the law of the sea. this area is allocated the lion’s share of the budget – eur 1 592.5 million, of which eur 1 522.5 million will go to fisheries agreements. in addition, some money has been allocated to technical and administrative assistance, including related staff costs. however, although the sums allocated by the commission have been increased in committee, meps expressed concern that the allocation would not cover all the tasks required. these have been increased by enlargement and the need to collect data on the new seas – for example, current data on the black sea scarcely exists. uncertainty over funding – not least as we await a new eu budget – poses the question of whether more funds can be made available, and if so, how they should be allocated. if more funding is not available, then the question of whether funding is appropriately allocated by this proposal arises. the creation of racs is a vital and most welcome development. they will play a key role in the management of the cfp. however, we need to ensure that the rac areas are adequately supported. they are unlikely to generate sufficient resources of their own after the start-up phase and, indeed, the operating costs are certain to increase after the start-up phase, as the racs and their working groups – the north sea rac already has four of them – progressively generate and implement new projects in support of management guidance to the commission. even in the start-up phase, the level of support to the racs from the commission diminishes progressively and steeply and continues to do so, year on year, as the rac itself is expected to become increasingly self-supporting. moreover, the secretariats of the racs have only limited capacity to seek alternative sources of funding, notably from member states. there is only limited opportunity – or justification – to pass the burden of cost on to the stakeholders – members of the general assembly and executive committees – especially as individual stakeholders – such as ngos – seek to be involved in several racs simultaneously, which incurs significant resource costs. it is vital to press for finance to be available for racs beyond the initial five-year period. the financial support for the collection of data on the impact of fisheries on the environment in relation to adopting an ecosystem-based approach is also important. almost 60% of all the money goes on international fishing agreements, and it is only right that we make sure this amounts to value for money and is a fair development. expenditure on agreements should be eligible for community financing only if it has been recommended as value for money under an evaluation report on the relevant agreement. it is also important to develop control capacities of third countries to ensure sustainable fishing monitoring and control of fishing activities. if cuts need to be made in the commission’s indicative budget, savings should be found from the international relations area, the largest budget area. i thank colleagues for their support and urge them to support this report tomorrow, and i wish everybody a happy christmas.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on this occasion i would like to offer very genuine and heartfelt congratulations to the rapporteur and thank her for her support for the alde amendments. these largely related to the issue of international fisheries agreements. i have to say, commissioner, i was rather disappointed by your response to them. we do not deny the importance of these agreements, but we believe that if we are expending european taxpayers’ money, whether for targeted assistance or in relation to fishing rights, we should know exactly how this money is being expended. amendment 16 in particular was crafted very carefully to get over the international legal difficulties in that respect. we are talking about fisheries partnership agreements with obligations on both sides. if we do not have this information, if we cannot evaluate what is going on, how can we decide whether we should renew them when the time comes? there are serious concerns about what is going on in some third-country waters. only last week, the environmental justice foundation published a report on illegal fishing in guinea and its links to the european union. a telling statistic cited in the report is that guinea is losing over 34 000 tonnes of fish every year to illegal fishing, worth an estimated usd 110 million. the eu fleet is only one of several implicated in this, but it is implicated all the same. it seems to me that this one example demonstrates why it is crucial that care is taken with regard to the eu’s fishing agreements, ensuring that the union is helping to improve governance in third-country waters, but also addressing the urgent need on all sides to step up the quality of monitoring and enforcement. several of the amendments in this report would help the union move towards more responsible fishing agreements. on a slightly different topic, the alde group welcomes amendment 11 proposing that funding for the operating costs of regional advisory councils should not be restricted to the first five years. as the commissioner has said, they are the cornerstone of the governance of the revised common fisheries policy.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the common fisheries policy affects the uk more than many other member states. a uk minister in the late 1940s once remarked that britain’s economy was safe for years to come because, he said, we live on an island of coal, surrounded by fish. the coal is still there, if we care to use it, but the fish have almost gone, due to the disaster that is common fisheries policy. designed to conserve fish stocks, this misbegotten scheme has reduced some species to near extinction. among the most depleted are the plentiful stocks once found in the north sea and irish box, up until 1973 the exclusive province of british fishermen who looked after the fishing grounds and reaped a rich harvest. then we joined the common market and the cfp, and now these seas are a marine desert in the making, if not already so. fair shares for all under the cfp, do i hear? if so, why does britain have lower quotas in the waters around our shores than some other countries from further afield? and what does it profit anyone to fish our waters out? too many boats taking too few fish is the cry. just so. under the cfp vast fleets of trawlers from countries previously excluded are rapaciously fishing these grounds to extinction, while fertiliser factory ships vacuum up vast quantities of marine life on the seabed, destroying the bottom of the food chain. how could any sane person devise the cfp scheme of quotas resulting in fish caught in excess being thrown back? do you not know that the discarded fish are dead when they are thrown back? do you not know that for some species the annual weight of useless discards is as much as the weight of the fish legally landed? compare that to norway and iceland who both refused to join the eu: their fish stocks remain plentiful and their fishing industries flourish because they look after them, forbidding discards. meanwhile, the british fishing fleet has sunk to less than a quarter of its previous size. destruction of the fishing industry means that the fishermen are out of work and on benefit. it means that fishing ports are in terminal decline, so structural funds are poured in. it means that the social and economic fabric around the ports declines, while the eu claims to be combating this particular misery. if you think this is a purely british complaint, think again. the fishing industry is a factor in the uk’s gdp to which contributions to the eu budget are geared, and that comes on top of the destruction of a priceless natural resource. and so, another christmas goose reduces its output of golden eggs!
deputising for the author. – mr president, the issue of sanctions is of some urgency. a level playing field is essential to giving fishermen faith in the fairness of the common fisheries policy. without that faith it becomes much more difficult to put well considered and effective management tools in place. the commission’s latest report on behaviour that has seriously infringed the rules of the common fisheries policy demonstrates once again how uneven the playing field currently is. in 2003 there was a range within member states of between 24% and 100% of the infringements that were actually followed by a sanction. average finds for the same offence also vary considerably between member states: for example, for keeping prohibited fishing gear on board, between eur 451 and eur 9 000; for unauthorised fishing, between eur 375 and eur 8 379, and for falsifying data, between eur 98 and eur 132 056. over three years ago my own report on infringements urged the commission ‘to examine the possibility of introducing a uniform system of minimum penalties across the european union ... to strengthen fishers’ confidence in the fundamental principle of equal treatment, which implies objective criteria for classification and rating, as well as for infringements and penalties’. i accept that it is agreed minima to which we look, as there must be some room to align the penalty to the value of the catch and to penalise repeat offences more seriously than first offences, but i believe that we need greater uniformity in both the level of penalties and the type of penalties and procedures involved. members of the committee on fisheries would be grateful for the commissioner’s answer to our question, bearing in mind that the preliminary statement should be clarified to the fact that what it is stating is that 86% of all offences are currently covered by administrative sanctions and 14% by penal ones. we would be grateful for the commission’s view on the issues that we have raised.
mr president, i am somewhat intrigued by the background giving rise to the oral question before the house. since 1999, countries that obey the rules have been honouring council regulation (ec) no 1447/1999, which required proportional, effective and dissuasive penalties with regard to serious infringements of the common fisheries policy. it is no surprise to find that the united kingdom is at the top of the class in its dedication to meeting the commission’s demands, whereas some of those countries that speak the loudest about their commitment to the european project – such as spain and germany – are among the main defaulters. the latest figures of serious cfp infringements are – as we have heard – those published by the commission for 2003. they show that the average fine in the united kingdom was almost eur 78 000 whereas the eu average was a mere eur 4 500. on the serious matter of falsifying records, the uk average fine was eur 132 000 while in germany it was a derisory eur 98 – but eur 98 more than in the republic of ireland which, according to those official commission figures, had no penalties to declare in 2003, although it belatedly admitted that it had 103 serious infringements! wherever the last speaker conjured up his figures, he certainly did not conjure them up from the published commission figures. it is not without significance that only when a red-faced dublin government published proposals for penalties to deal with this issue that, at the behest of irish meps and others, this oral question was raised. let me make it clear: i see merit in equitable and proportionate penalties across the eu, but i am less than impressed by the fact that, so long as the fishermen of the united kingdom were bearing the brunt of punitive action, nobody cared. but once one of the free-wheeling states is asked to pedal, then there are cries for equity, for fairness and for a level playing field. the disparity that has been in operation for years has a practical detriment for those states that have been complying. take the situation in the irish sea, where most of the fishermen from my country, northern ireland, have to compete to fish. there, we compete with fishermen from the republic of ireland, whereas the northern ireland fisherman for years has been subject to those draconian uk penalties. indeed, at present, some ulster fishermen are awaiting trial in liverpool crown court. yet, for years it seems that their southern counterparts have had the benefit of flouting the rules without serious penalty. think what that does to competitiveness. every time the northern ireland fisherman goes to sea, he has to factor in the risk of savage penalty if he seriously infringes the cfp, but, according to the commission’s figures, the republic of ireland fisherman in the same waters has no worries at all. until now, his government has not seemed to bother about serious infringement. so, by all means, let us have parity of treatment, but let us understand the detriment suffered to date by those who, for years, have kept to the rules on pain of savage punishment. how, commissioner, is that historic wrong to be righted? you said tonight that you very much favour administrative sanctions. if that is so, would you now publicly support and encourage the united kingdom to discontinue its present prosecutions? that would greatly help.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate, as i believe it gives us the chance to raise the difficult degrees of sanctions imposed on the fishing fleets in different member states of the european union. we have heard from various members about the disparities in fines and controls in member states, which i do not have enough time to address now. in the united kingdom, draconian measures have been introduced. now draconian measures are being proposed in the republic of ireland. as the previous speaker said, the british government has had these implemented perfectly from day one, as it always does, while everybody else lags behind. there is nothing new in that, however, and we should not be surprised at it. our fishermen and farmers, and many other industries, have suffered this state of affairs, whilst the situation in other states barely compares. the result of this european directive, implemented by the member states, is a total disparity among the member states. this is unacceptable and unworkable. like the previous speaker, i come from northern ireland. a very small off-shore fleet operates in box 7a in the irish sea, subject to the draconian rules imposed by the british government. they are now going to be facing the draconian rules introduced by the republic of ireland government. at times they fish in those waters and there is great cooperation among the fishermen in those areas. however, that is of little use to the fishermen if, as the previous speaker says, they find themselves before the courts. this is the type of directive that brings the european union into total disrepute in the member states, as there is no semblance of a level playing field. you talked about a level playing field. it does not exist. there should be proportionality and equal treatment. i realise that there is no easy solution. you know that yourself, as you recently visited northern ireland. i understand that, but i believe the commission must urgently review this entire issue of sanctions in the fisheries sector. let me make it clear. i believe we require sanctions and controls. there is no question about that and we are not advocating anything else. however, we must be realistic and they must be able to be implemented, unlike these present and unacceptable proposals. as the fishing industry goes to brussels next week to look to its future and fate on tax and quotas, this is the type of problem they do not need to face. i would like to leave you with one point, if you will allow me. i want to put one question to the commission. it does not help us to stand in this house tonight and trade insults with each other, about what this or that member state does. in the long term, we need each member state to respect each other’s position. you said you were going to harmonise sanctions. so when are you going to come forward with the proposals?
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, you have already outlined the contents of the partnership agreement and explained to us that it is one of the first – if not the first – to be negotiated by the commission as part of the new philosophy agreed by the council in july 2004. i am sure general morillon will be pleased when i convey to him your commitment to trying to find a resolution to the problem of timing. the committee on fisheries would like you to think again about your acceptance of amendments. we had the final proposal submitted to us on 18 october this year, 14 days after the deadline for first payment. i accept that you had already spoken about it with officials in the seychelles and they were very understanding, but this again was nine months after the agreement was due to come into force. we appreciate the exigencies of negotiating a new type of agreement but we on the fisheries committee feel that we want to be kept better informed about what is going on. we also want to have some kind of input into the kind of agreement that is being reached, hence the emphasis that the financial contribution must be used for the development of coastal populations living on fisheries. i revert to the point i made earlier this evening that we are now talking about fisheries partnership agreements in which both sides acquire rights but also take on obligations. there is a feeling on the part of the fisheries committee that we want to know what is going on, we want the commission to submit a report to us and to the council on the application of the agreement and on the conditions under which it was implemented, and to include a cost/benefit analysis. if we do not have that kind of information, when it comes to renewal, how can we give a considered opinion on the merits of the new agreement? please, commissioner, with regard to our amendments, i would be very grateful if you could see what the fisheries committee is trying to achieve in this respect: fuller involvement of the european parliament, not an attempt to take over the commission’s negotiating mandate, but to have a real input into what is being decided. it is european taxpayers’ money that is involved. we are sure that the commission is doing its very best to ensure that it is put to good use, but we are part of the budgetary authority. we would like to be reassured that we can have the observation and control, which is part of our mandate. please, commissioner, think again about those amendments. i am sure that the members of the fisheries committee and general morillon, in particular, would be most grateful to you.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the court of auditors recently remarked that 90% of eu activity is open to fraud. so, we come to the award of fishing rights to the eu fleets in waters around the seychelles. a loophole exists in these agreements, whereby eu fleet owners have been known to complete a trawler’s fishing to gain full hulls, and then declare technical problems. they are then allowed to replace this trawler with a new one on the same licence, so they get two trawlers full for the price of one. it does not stop there: they repeat it time and again, on the same licence, citing this bogus technical problem several times over – and one wonders why fish stocks are depleted! the second half of this scam is to declare ‘zero catch’, so there are no eu contributions to the country in question, and deprivation becomes acute. people from several african countries say that everyone knows the huge fraud taking place in their waters under these eu agreements. on top of that, we have the new seychelles agreement, following the agreements for martinique, madagascar and the cape verde islands, agreed and approved in this house within the last year – and may i say, to the shame of this house. modern, big eu trawlers force these local fishermen out of business, landing catches at prices with which they cannot compete. a good slice of the economy of a third world country is destroyed, all because eu fleets, due to their reckless rape of their own seas, now move on to other targets. i note that commissioner borg disagreed with me in my last speech, saying that the problem was over-fishing, which is precisely what i said in my own comments. it is not long before the new waters around these islands are fished out. the eu trawlers then move on, leaving a deeply wounded economy: fishermen out of work and waters deprived of stock, so that the locals cannot restart properly. and the eu says it wants to help the third world!
mr president, i must confess i rise to speak in this debate feeling a sense of anger, not least that it is 11.35 p.m. and many of us have missed our christmas parties, but because we are here debating the eighth renewal of the fisheries agreement between the eu and the seychelles, which would normally be considered a matter of simple routine. this agreement, as other speakers have said, was due to enter into force on 18 january 2005. eu fishing vessels have been fishing continuously in the seychelles' waters since january 2005. however, the seychelles government has not yet received a single euro, as we have heard. we are taking their fish without paying them a cent. we must remember that the seychelles was one of the countries affected on 26 december last year by the tsunami. as we know, it was the fishing communities that were hardest hit by that disaster. here we are, in the european union, exacerbating the problem by allowing our distant-water european fleet to fish in their waters, yet a year later we still have not paid them one cent. how is it possible that this protocol was not submitted to the european parliament until mid-october 2005, 10 months after the commencement of the agreement and two weeks after the first payment was due? the second instalment under this agreement is due next month and yet we are here at 11.40 p.m. still debating the text of the protocol, all our amendments to which the commissioner has rejected. what are we doing here? are we here simply to rubber-stamp a commission proposal when there is not even the slightest hint of humility, of acknowledgement of this delay and acceptance of the fisheries committee’s amendments? the council says it is anxious that parliament should deliver its opinion as soon as possible. the new protocol was signed by the two parties on 23 september 2004, and yet the council did not request that parliament should be consulted until 14 october 2005, more than a year later. i am well aware of all the internal procedural problems. i am well aware that we have to seek 21 different translations of all these protocols, but we have been aware of these shortcomings for a long time. steps should have been taken to ensure that this process was speeded up. this situation is intolerable. it is grossly unfair to fish in the waters of the seychelles or any other country while withholding payment from them. we have to ensure that this never happens again.
mr president, i rise on behalf of all the authors to thank everybody in this chamber who has signed this declaration. it has received cross-party, cross-nationality support and it will now go forward to the commission and the council. i think it is something the chinese government will really take notice of, because i believe bear farming in china must be brought to an end. i thank everybody for their support and i hope this will go forward with great vigour. finally, i would like to wish you all a happy christmas. (applause) * * *
mr president, i was indeed in the chair when mr gollnisch made an explanation of vote. he had his full time, i did cut him off and i did make a remark concerning the case that he had raised, in a personal capacity. i suggest that the house might like to read what i said, because i think they will agree with me and not with mr gollnisch. (applause)
mr president, i rise under rule 145 to make a short personal statement following the remarks made by the presidency in a debate yesterday, which i find unhelpful and not positive at all. whilst i am not of the governing party of the uk, i find it very demeaning that the council is not here this morning. i, and my friends and colleagues from britain, do not want that kind of discourtesy to be thought of as normal, at least in this chamber. (applause)
mr president, if we cannot be respectful in listening to one another, there is hardly any reason to be here. i rise under the precedent of rule 145. i would like to inform the house that the council left their building over an hour ago, the traffic in the vicinity of strasbourg is extremely bad and it is not the intention of her majesty’s government to slight this house or its members. i am told that the government representative is five minutes away. i beg the house’s indulgence. (mixed reactions)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for that very warm endorsement of my report, which marks a major step forward in the rights of disabled people and passengers of reduced mobility. it is a tremendous vote in favour. it was interesting that there were six people who decided to vote against it, but through the joys and wonders of technology we were able to name and shame them. i am sure the house will welcome the fact that the way parliament voted means we will be able to get an agreement at first reading. all 25 governments and the commission have indicated that they will accept all the amendments parliament has passed. in thanking colleagues, allow me to mention that people will also welcome the fact that this is a major achievement under the british presidency. (applause)
mr president, the alde group would like to suggest an oral amendment to amendment 9, so that it reads: ‘whereas international terrorism poses one of the greatest threats to society within the eu and to those values’. if that oral amendment were accepted, then we would support amendment 9.
mr president, we would like to suggest an oral amendment to take out the word ‘nato’, which we thought we had taken out in the negotiations anyway. there has been a misunderstanding. it should not be there. in which case, i propose that the split vote would be unnecessary, because the text would read: ‘including facilities pertaining to military bases such as...’. so we should take out the word ‘nato’, which would enable us to vote on the recital as a whole, without the split.
mr president, i should just like to make a point about linguistics, something that colleagues will be interested in. the word ‘transportation’ is an american word; the english word is ‘transport’. bearing in mind the nature of the report, we ought to have it in english. (laughter and applause)
in writing. we have maintained that acp sugar reform compensation should be at the level of eur 80 million not eur 40 million. we are also opposed to open-ended cfsp funding without adequate justification.
in writing. the ukip meps are voting for the rejection of the draft general budget, not because they support an increase in the budget, but on the principle that the uk should take its own decisions regarding funding priorities and not contribute to the eu budget.
in writing. i voetd for this amendment not to support an increase in the budget, but because i do not wish any monies to be spent by the uk, which should rather be spent in fulfilling bilateral agreements.
in writing. the ukip meps are voting for the rejection of the draft general budget, not because they support an increase in the budget, but on the principle that the uk should take its own decisions regarding funding priorities and not contribute to the eu budget.
in writing. i am voting in favour of rejecting the budget, not because i am in favour of increasing it, but because i do not wish for united kingdom funds to be spent in this way, or in any way by the european union.
in writing. british conservatives support the general direction of the 2006 budget, particularly approving of increased support for the lisbon objectives and maintaining the overall budget level at 1.01% gni. however, we urge more radical reform of the overall budget.
in writing. ukip fully recognises the desirability of improving conditions for handicaped people, particularly in some staes on mainland europe. however, we reject the notion that improvements should be carried out under the competence of the commission. this should be the sole prerogative of democratic national states.
in writing. i voted against this proposal not because i wish to hinder persons with reduced mobility but because,a) this should be left to member states to make appropriate arrangements b) current law requires the airline to make provision, to require travel agents and booking firms do so will place an intelerable administrative burden on them, will seriously confuse the area between the agent's repsonsilility and the airline's, and will raise costs, and is probably against eu law.
in writing. i voted enthusiastically for the evans report, because i believe it is a significant contribution to anti-discrimination policies for people with disabilities who want the freedom to fly without hindrance.
in writing. ukip fully recognises the desirability of improving conditions for handicaped people, particularly in some states on mainland europe. however, we reject the notion that improvements should be carried out under the competence of the commission.
in writing. i applaud this report and am delighted by the size of the majority it achieved in this house. many of our citizens think that disability issues have been resolved because legislation in many of our countries has been in place for years. that is just not the case, the reality on the ground often does not match the aims of the legislative framework, and further urgent action is very necessary to ensure that all our citizens have access to travel. this is a good news story of the european union taking action where member states have not, and i am very very pleased to support it.
in writing. it is not the business of the eu to run airlines. if recommendations of this kind are to be internationally effective the measures must be enforced by the body overseeing airlines, not the eu whon like to dictate on all subjects, including the rules of football!
in writing. i fully recognise the desirablity of improving conditions for handicapped people. however, i reject the notion that this should be done, by the eu on behalf of any one, let alone sovereign nation states. i also reject the notion, implicit within this that agents booking any travel arrangements should bear the contractual responsibilities and liabilities of either party
in writing. i voted against this report because the fisheries agreements in practice merely export our own disastrous fisheries policy to the rest of the world. the common fisheries policy is untenable, illogical and has been an unmitigated disaster. more so, in our union of 25 it will collapse under the weight of its own contradictions. we need to ensure that eu decision making is logical, the common fisheries policy is not and puts those of us who are pro-european in the unenviable position of having to exlpain such an illogical and disastrous policy to our increasingly rightly sceptical electorate.
in writing. i believe this report is a well balanced and thoughtful response to eu fisheries policy, which is why i supported it wholeheartedly.
in writing. i would like to thank all colleagues who have today voted for my report. the overwhelming support for regional advisory councils (racs) sends a clear signal to the european commission that these organisations require funding after the transitional period. racs allow local stakeholders to have a voice in decision making which affects their local interests. we must now call on the commission to come forward with clear proposals to help racs.
in writing. the extension of financial aid to georgia is a practical demonstratino of the eu reaching outward to our near neighbours with real assistance. the caucasus countries are working hard to rebuild themselves and the eu can, must, play a role in their reconstruction and expand our area of peace and prosperity to cover them also. the area is not without problems, but the eu as interested and friendly outsiders can assist in dialogue and progress, so i am happy to support today's proposal and would be happy to support more.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support calls for a renewed focus in achieving the lisbon objectives, to stimulate growth and employment and to give sufficient resources to framework programmes on research, competitiveness and innovation. the completion of the internal market should be a priority and the initial steps taken by the commission to withdraw unnecessary regulation are welcomed. however, we are concerned that there are continued attempts to facilitate the rapid adoption of the eu constitution and implement legislation for an "area of freedom, security and justice" which we do not support.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this report as while many of the inconsistencies in the report were amended in the votes, the report could still do better ni terms of clarity and precision. many of the amendments of my group were sadly unsuccessful, though would have improved this report, which i believe comes too late in any case in order to influence the thinking of the european commission on this vital matter.
in writing. i am pleased that the commission listened to the member states and redrafted their proposal on regional selective assistance (rsa). i agree that there should be less but better targeted state aids. however there is still much to be done to ensure that there is flexibility. scotland has directly benefited from regional selective assistance securing thousands of jobs and helping many companies successfully develop. we have to allow this to continue.
in writing. i voted for the joint resolution on the issue of extraordinary rendition. no one can yet be convicted in europe of illegal activity, but the weight of evidence suggests that european law has almost certainly been breached in a number of member states and applicant countries. the work of the council of europe's rapporteur on the subject supports that conclusion. i support the establishment of a temporary committee, but we have to be careful not to bolt the stable door after the horse has bolted. the particular circumstances around extraordinary rendition will have been investigated to death by the time our committee is established. rather, we need a wider investigation that looks at causes rather than symptoms; an investigation that looks at protecting democracy at home and abroad that looks at how we can fight terrorism and protect human rights.
in writing. i voted as i did on this resolution because, along with many concerned london constituents, i believe there should be an objective investigation of allegations, both of the alleged use of eu countries by the cia for the transportation of prisoners, and the alleged use of european soil for the illegal detention of prisoners.
in writing. the presumed use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners should be condemned and investigated thoroughly. i am pleased that the uk government has stated categorically that it will cooperate fully with the council of europe investigation.
in writing. i voted for the moscovici report on romania, but i believe that, on some key issues, the romanian government must make accelerated progress - namely the widespread, institutionalised discrimination against the roma, clearing up allegations of the use of alleged illegal detention sites and state corruption.
in writing. women's role in fisheries is often forgotten and yet women play a pivotal role. this report gives recognition to women in the fisheries sector and should be wholeheartedly supported.
author. – mr president, my group has serious concerns about human rights in china. we have regular reports of the continued use of the death penalty and inhuman and degrading treatment in prisons with reports of the use of torture. those concerns are particularly true in tibet, where we continue to receive many reports of violations in particular against buddhist monks and people who follow the buddhist faith. as for hong kong, we strongly support demands for the provision of universal suffrage within the territory. i would note, however, that in far too many countries in the world the demonstration on 4 december of tens of thousands of people in favour of such universal suffrage would not have been permitted. however, we have a problem. paragraph 14 of the resolution – on which we have asked for a split vote – invites the dalai lama to address parliament in what would be seen as his capacity as a head of state. i do not believe it is our place to make such a momentous change to our one-china policy in the middle of an urgency debate. i personally have met and talked to the dalai lama on two occasions. i have no objection to his being invited to the committee on foreign affairs or anywhere else. however, i and the pse group will not be able to support this resolution if that paragraph remains in place.
author. – mr president, two months ago we adopted an urgent resolution in this house regarding tenzin delek rinpoche and he still has not been released from detention. once again we are here, this time to seek to highlight the ‘patriotic education’ campaign conducted in tibetan monasteries. last month five tibetan monks were arrested in drepung monastery. we hear they have also been tortured in detention. but what is their crime? their crime is that they refused to sign declarations denouncing his holiness the dalai lama as a dangerous separatist. public education began as a tool of repression in 1996 in china, but it has escalated since 2005. the chinese government is attempting to brainwash the people. this is not public education, it is a suppression of human rights. no doubt the chinese will again say this is an internal matter for china, but the international community cannot sit idly by when peace-loving people are subjected to this kind of treatment. we need to know in particular what happened to the young tibetan monk ngawang jangchub, who died in october during a ‘patriotic education’ session. the chinese government must listen to our calls for respect for human rights. if it does not, the least we should do – and i mean the least we should do – is maintain our eu embargo on trade in arms. unlike one of the previous speakers, i would like to see the dalai lama coming here and addressing parliament.
author. – mr president, russia remains the largest country in the world and because it is a member of the council of europe and the osce it is under greater scrutiny and criticism by the eu in terms of fundamental democratic rights. it currently enjoys privileges, such as the pca agreement, a strategic partnership based on the four common spaces agreement, and eventual enpi and eib funding benefits. russia continues to be a democracy, albeit an imperfect one. however, for some time now, concerns have been expressed that the kremlin and the siloviki, so-called men of power close to president putin, have been attempting to restrict freedom of the media and ngos, in particular, where it was felt that they were interfering with russian strategic interests, such as the bloody conflict in chechnya, or the strategy of reversing some of the controversial sell-offs of the oil and gas sector in the early 1990s in order to increase the patronage of the state. a handful of men, such as khodorkovsky, benefited enormously. he was convicted of several criminal offences and had his extensive yukos holdings renationalised. his controversial trial followed with accusations internationally of political manipulation of the judicial system. more recently, on 23 november, the duma approved the law restricting freedom of association and the ability of foreign ngos to operate in russia by imposing fiscal and residency requirements of registration, which the council of europe, in a provisional opinion, has seriously questioned as incompatible with the european convention on human rights. however, much to his credit, president putin has listened to the objections and asked to rewrite aspects of the bill which infringe fundamental human rights and which are not legitimately necessary to fight terrorism, as was mentioned in chechnya in particular, and money laundering. i hope reason prevails. we all wish to see a democratic, european russia with whom we can all share fundamental common values of basic human rights.
author. – mr president, i shall begin with the eritrean border. the ethiopian government’s decision to move back its forces has been very welcome. this is a highly tense situation and it is not helped by eritrea’s eviction of members of the un mission. when we were in edinburgh, the eritrean ambassador to the eu told me that eritrea wanted the situation resolved, but ethiopia was refusing to take action. this morning the first secretary at the ethiopian mission to the eu told me that ethiopia wanted the situation resolved but needed channels of discussion on the process of implementing the boundary commission decision. if it is fundamentally the case that, despite past animosity, there is now the will for peace on both sides, could the commission and council not play a more active role in bringing the two sides together? secondly, on the situation inside ethiopia, the council will be aware that a cross-party group of us who observed the 15 may elections wrote to hilary benn, the british secretary of state for international development, on 23 november. we detailed our concern at the loss of life and the human rights abuses which have taken place there since june. i am told that an answer is awaiting the minister’s signature. this may be the political equivalent of a cheque in the post, but i understand that the council and commission are committed to pursing a robust discussion on democracy and human rights issues under article 8 of the cotonou agreement. i hope it will indeed be robust and that the option of initiating urgent consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement will be borne in mind if progress is not forthcoming.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, yet again we turn our attention to ethiopia and yet again the situation has not improved and if anything got worse. reports get worse and worse. we now hear that some eighteen thousand youths have been arrested in addis ababa and have been taken to an open field by the dedesa river and imprisoned. it will need to be a very big field. the ethiopian authorities must be put under strong pressure by us to reveal how many of their citizens they are mistreating. this motion for a resolution has a number of ideas as to how, but i would be grateful for your update, mr commissioner, on what your plans are and what action you will be taking. the government must disclose how many, particularly how many young people, have been imprisoned and how many killed. also, what is the commission's view of the prospective establishment of an independent commission of inquiry into this whole business? we have much to do on this, colleagues, so i would, in closing – as i believe the last mep speaker of 2005 – wish you all a restful holiday, a happy hogmanay as we call new year in scotland, and i look forward to seeing you in 2006 when we will be able to redouble our efforts on this dreadful situation. p. –
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission is very concerned about the internal political developments in ethiopia since the elections on 15 may. the democratisation process has come to a difficult crossroads. the commission condemns the killings of innocent civilians by the security forces on the streets of addis ababa and in other cities of the country in july and november. the arrest of thousands of people for sympathising with the opposition parties is unacceptable. the commission also condemns the arrest of opposition leaders who have completed three weeks of hunger strike, putting their lives in danger. the commission’s concern has been expressed in writing by commissioner louis michel, as well as in addis ababa by the european union and united states' ambassadors, and by the donor ambassadors group. the ethiopian authorities have been duly notified of our concerns but have not yet reacted in a constructive manner. as an immediate reaction to the events, the commission and other donors have agreed to reconsider the implementation of development aid. budget support is already delayed, whereas humanitarian aid, food aid and other programmes continue at present. on the political front, the european union heads of mission will launch a structured political dialogue with the ethiopian government, according to article 8 of the cotonou agreement. the heads of mission in addis ababa have proposed to the government a detailed structure for the dialogue and performance indicators to measure progress on the political and human rights situations. these indicators mainly relate to progress in the democratisation process, the respect for human rights and the rule of law, as well as issues of regional peace and stability. at this stage, the commission does not consider that consultations, as foreseen in article 96, should be opened because there is still hope that political dialogue can achieve positive results. in the longer term, the commission will need to work on the strengthening of democratic institutions in ethiopia and the promotion of open dialogue between the government and civil society. currently, the commission is promoting the advocacy role of ethiopian civil society with the aim of enabling them to play a stronger role in the democratisation process. in our view, these efforts must be continued, despite setbacks to the democratisation process. on the ethiopia/eritrea peace process i would like to recall the european union position on this matter. the european union encourages the parties to abide by the algiers peace agreement, as well as by the final and binding decision of april 2002 of the ethiopia/eritrea boundary commission. eritrea and ethiopia should respect and implement un security council resolution 1640(2005). furthermore, the initiative is with the united nations security council because the united nations is the guarantor of the algiers peace agreement and can enforce international law.
in writing. i am concerned about the deteriorating situation between ethiopia and eritrea which threatens to lead to a new war. it took the eritreans decades and the deaths of tens of thousands of freedom fighters to achieve independence. since then the human rights situation in ethiopia has remained dire, while in eritrea it has deteriorated from adequate to very poor. nevertheless the shadow of conflict hanging over the region makes it even more difficult to see human rights significantly improve in either country. therefore it is important that the commission and council press both countries to return to the troop deployment levels of 16 december 2004, and for eritrea in particular to reverse its decision to ban helicopter flights by the un mission in ethiopia and eritrea and to ask some members of the mission to leave.
mr president, it was a request for a split vote on paragraph 14, but having discussed it with some of my colleagues from other groups, we can make it very simple. it is a split vote on the word ‘address’. if that falls, then we will be able to support the resolution. it will then read: ‘urges the conference of presidents to invite his holiness the dalai lama to the european parliament during 2006’. i hope that split vote will go through so that we can support the resolution as a whole.
mr president, i just want to ask about the split vote from a procedural point of view. is it in order to have a split vote when it has not been put in writing before the actual part-session begins? i just need a ruling on that and to know which rule you will be speaking to.
