mr president, the recent fao report on world food security shows that efforts to date to reduce hunger and starvation worldwide are not even close to the 2005 target for their elimination. in 30 countries with 2.5 billion undernourished people, this target was met by only 25 percent. the consequences are not only in the medium term but also in the long term, since the development of these countries is condemned and they are thus unable to achieve a praiseworthy standard of living. mr president, poverty does not come from nowhere, aids does not spread by itself. it seems that we have so far failed to fulfil our obligation to childhood and to the fight against poverty. the european union must now cover all those countries whose food security is at risk, including the proposal we heard a moment ago from you yourself for coordination between the commission and the european parliament.
mr president, on my last trip from strasbourg to athens the police at strasbourg airport asked to inspect my wheelchair separately from me, as if it were an accessory. after the check, they wouldn't give it back to me so i could be served during the waiting time. that means that while i'm waiting, i don't have independence even in the bathrooms, but i have an escort in them. it's an obstruction of my autonomy and a reduction in my dignity. this is not happening in any airport in the world, not even in french cities. i've traveled the world on multiple-member missions with people with disabilities and i've never encountered this kind of behavior anywhere. when i later, after agreeing not to have my wheelchair returned to me and to be loaded as common luggage, wanted to push my body through the check-in arch with my hands, so as not to use a stranger instead of the wheelchair that was right for me, i was not allowed. fifteen policemen, who gathered around me, threatened to arrest me. they demanded my passport, sent a signal to turn my luggage back so i wouldn't travel, while 10 colleagues and journalists tried in vain to stop them. i find this behaviour unacceptable. i consider my right to move freely and safely in a wheelchair adapted to my needs to be inalienable, without, of course, preventing any safety check from being carried out. i ask you to contact the authorities and take the necessary measures to prevent such phenomena from happening again, which reach the limits of racism in the airport of just one city.
mr president, unfortunately the european union and the other imperialist industrial states' adherence to the logic of maximising capital gains precludes the achievement of a genuine and satisfactory objective, in accordance with scientific studies on the reduction of pollutant emissions and the limitation of climate change with catastrophic consequences for the future of the planet itself. the commission's assurance that the greenhouse gas trading programme and other flexible mechanisms will not jeopardise but rather protect the competitiveness of the european union's economy is not convincing. instead of reducing, as it had intended, it increased emissions by 3 points, confirming how complex, unstable and ultimately ineffective the kyoto climate change response is. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. these are measures to substantially reduce emissions, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources, the use of biofuels, the use of more of the thermal energy produced in power stations, and the substantial protection and use of forests as a vehicle for absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you gave the constitution, or whatever you call it, to a draftsman from any european country who respects the principles of democracy, national sovereignty, the values of historical and cultural heritage, he would draw this thing like a meat grinder from which various parts of various animals, from sheep to cattle, come out in the form of meat grinder. but people are not animals, and it's a crime to treat them like meat. fascism did it with weapons and some people seem to be jealous of its intentions and 65 years later some other weapons like money and propaganda are used for the same reason. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. not the law of the jungle that strangles the weak. not in imposing misconceptions and individuals. not in the attempt to turn citizens into obedient robots in the hands of multinationals and banks. yes to the right of opinion and rejection. yes, in the europe of the sovereign nations. yes to christianity and human rights. yes to the pride and dignity of the people. "i know you by the edge of the sword the terrible. i know you from the face that violently measures the earth". and the violence they inflict on the spirit is worse than the violence against the body. we still have time to resist. we have time for the great upheaval of globalization and the new order of things.
mr president, there are three major stakes in this constitution. the first is whether we're going to be a federation. a federation in foreign affairs and defence and elsewhere, or will we be a loose federation of heterogeneous partners, especially after enlargement? the second question is: will we be a europe of social sensitivity or will we be a europe of open and uncontrolled markets? and thirdly: will we be a europe without democratic deficits, with power in the hands of the citizens, or will we be a europe where there are european elections and we have 30, 40 and 50% abstention? the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those who oppose this constitution for supposedly social, sensitive reasons must answer whether the existing treaties help the poor and the weak in europe more than this constitution does. and allow me a little national pride, as a greek and a socialist: it was during the greek presidency, in june 2003, that the initial negotiations on this constitution were concluded, and i am proud of that. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we must ensure that the seeds of social sensitivity that have been planted in the constitution are not just words but are put into practice. the famous horizontal social clause with the union's obligation to ensure that in all its policies the objectives of high employment, environmental protection, public health, education, equality between men and women are promoted will only be implemented by good laws. i should also like to say that for those members who are striving for a more socially just europe this is a particularly painful but also a particularly welcome challenge.
mr president, tomorrow's vote is historic. the important progress made with the european constitution and the benefits derived from its positive provisions have already been presented in the excellent report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo and today in this chamber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. but what happens if there is a problem with ratification in one of the member states? the constitution does not contain any specific provision to deal with this eventuality. the declarations on the provisions of the constitution, however, state that if, after two years from the signature of the treaty, four fifths of the member states have ratified it and one or more member states are experiencing difficulties in ratifying it, the matter is referred to the european council. but do you think that this arrangement is satisfactory? i think there should be a clearer provision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not enough to say and support the ratification of the constitution unreservedly. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of this scourge, and we must be able to take action to prevent the spread of this scourge.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the three speeches allow me to make a united comment. firstly - and i am referring in particular to mr fava, who knows this very well - the treaty establishing the european union does not state for the first time, but merely repeats an accepted, common, widespread principle, commonly known as the principle of preference for community workers over non-community workers. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. if the problem were to be put in these terms, the impact of immigration on society would certainly not be positive, whereas we must ensure that legal immigration leads to real integration. this means that workers are accepted into civil societies, integrated with education, with a real integration into society. of course, this issue is not addressed in the green paper, but it is the subject of the integration policies which will be the subject of action by the commission in 2005. these are matters which the commission will be developing during the year in close cooperation with parliament and the presidency. integration is an absolutely essential element of the process. we are rather concerned here to hear suggestions on how we can make the european policy of welcoming workers from outside the community more homogeneous: that's the goal. i repeat to those who have asked again, i cannot today formulate options or preferences between possible abstract solutions. someone asked me if it was possible to establish a green card for the american. the public debate that will take place will give you the answers, this parliament will give you the answers, the social partners we will be hearing from will give you the answers. on one point, of course, i confirm a commitment you can already imagine: the commission will not simply listen to advice, but will take account of the assessments and also of the proposals it receives. in conclusion, the commission has two lines of action: the european parliament has been asked to make a european approach to what has hitherto been a purely national approach, with the aim of promoting a more balanced policy, but above all to define the phenomenon of legal immigration in a positive way within our societies. this approach is indispensable for genuine integration, which will be difficult to achieve without it.
mr president, i thank the commission for its initiative, which is extremely welcome. let me try to put a new twist on things. there are tens of millions of europeans living outside europe who have benefited from the immigration policy of other countries – not only the united states, but also australia, south africa, new zealand and many others. these people – or a very interesting sample of them – met for the first time during the greek presidency in june 2003 in thessaloniki. some of the most remarkably successful italians, greeks, czechs, romanians and others living around the world came to tell us about their experiences. their experience, as european citizens, of being integrated into those countries could be extremely helpful to you, commissioner. i was involved in this and i would be happy to help your staff plan a meeting with these people. i do not believe that any of us here feel that the relatives we have in third countries have harmed those countries, nor do the host countries feel that they have harmed them. so for us as europeans to fear the notion of legal migration so greatly goes against our personal experiences. let us hear the experiences of these people. their experiences might even enable us to make it easier for our own citizens – identifying as they will with them – to understand the benefits of legal migration to europe.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has not been informed of any deposition by the greek authorities concerning any of the facts mentioned by the honourable member. since phone taps always require an assessment of the proportionality of the potential infringement of fundamental rights in relation to the public interest served by such measures, permitting phone taps as a means of conducting criminal investigations are in most cases subject to a court warrant. when the competent authorities of one member state in the course of criminal investigations in their own country need to carry out taps on phones or telecommunication services located in another member state they must follow the procedures that have been put in place for that purpose. the european commission obviously does not have the means to judge the behaviour of independent judicial authorities. the main european instrument providing for this situation is the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. until such time as this convention enters into force, member states can have recourse to the 1959 council of europe convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and to council of europe recommendation (85)10 concerning letters rogatory for the interception of telecommunications.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome you, but you leave me in a state of shock! it is inconceivable that the commission should avoid commenting on a serious breach of basic data protection rules. we have had telephone interceptions in greece against greek citizens by italian services in the absence of all greek authorities. mr commissioner, a few weeks ago you were a minister in the italian government. it is possible that you did not pick up the phone and ask both the italian and greek governments what happened?
vice-president of the commission. i apologize to the honourable member, but i can only repeat that the commission has not received any information on this case. in any event, the commission has no legal right to judge an infringement which, if committed, would have been committed by an independent judicial authority and not by a governmental authority of a member state. there are legal instruments available, i have mentioned them: in particular, the council of europe's recommendations and the council of europe's convention on mutual assistance.
i think that there is another mistake here, or something that you are missing. last december the newspapers "republica" and "corriere della sera" reported extensively on phone tapping, even having special drawings of a machine that commits this crime, in quotation marks or out of quotation marks, and this machine exists somewhere in milan or in southern italy. i am surprised that you have not already noticed this, so that you can make your comments today.
on behalf of the team. mr. president, we have three issues to deal with after the disaster: firstly, how best to express this solidarity, that is, how much money from the european citizen will reach the citizen of that devastated region, without being squeezed by intermediaries, non-governmental organizations and contractors. secondly, we must respond to some allegations that have been made by middle eastern newspapers that a nuclear test was allegedly preceded. we must not allow this to be floated, even as a joke. we should check first whether such a nuclear test has been carried out! thirdly, we must look at what is happening in our region in depth. here, the commission is cutting funds from seismic research and giving them to space. but if there is a similar earthquake here in the mediterranean, the tsunami will reach the alps and will level greece, italy, malta, cyprus, france, spain and other countries. so let us see what we can do about it. let the suffering of southeast asia be a lesson. hippocrates said 2,500 years ago, "prevention is better than cure", and that makes sense. i do not know if there is any logic in the commission's people cutting off money for earthquake research and giving it to space research. let's do something before we cry here in our own district! (applause from the centre and the right)
the debate is closed for the time being. it will be repeated at 3 p.m.
in writing. the constitutional treaty, the so-called euro-constitution, codifies the previous treaties, strengthening the privileges and profits of capital, further developing the arms race and militarization of europe. it is a measure to shield the plutocracy which will sharpen the class antagonisms and bring new suffering to the people. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it is not the council that has been the party to the maastricht treaty. the eu's guilt is also apparent in its unilateral propaganda of disinformation, spending huge sums in order to win the vote and consent of workers, while simultaneously with its guidelines and orientations it imposes cuts in wages, pensions, unemployment benefits. it is a challenge to present in the european parliament's resolution the most reactionary article 43, which adopts the american doctrine of preventive war as protection of civilians from terrorist attack. it's the alibi of capital to terrorize the people and seize the wealth they produce. the kke meps will vote against the so-called 'euro-constitution' and all its variants. the european union is not a progressive euro-constitution in the eu of capital and war, and those who cultivate such illusions are not helping to develop the struggle against exploitative policies and their agents.
mr president, the impressive mobilization of world and european public opinion is pushing governments and the european union to act more effectively by strengthening international cooperation under the auspices of the un. four points i would like to mention: the first and most important thing at the moment is to ensure that the promises are kept and not just words as in other cases, that the aid, that is, reaches the citizens who need it quickly and efficiently, without being wasted or stolen by corrupt middlemen, and here the role of the un is crucial. secondly, the european parliament should ask the creditor countries to cancel the debts of the countries affected and not simply suspend payment of some of the instalments. the announcement by the seven richest countries of a simple suspension of payments in favour of the countries hit seems hypocritical, considering that the united states has imposed the cancellation of the debt of iraq, a country it controls militarily. thirdly, i propose that the european parliament should support the proposal put forward at the united nations in september 2004 and already supported by some 100 countries for a global tax on capital movements, arms sales or the consumption of non-renewable energy to finance emergency aid for natural disasters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report on this subject which i tabled a month ago and which was adopted by the european parliament by an overwhelming majority must be more generously supported in the years to come.
mr president, the course of transatlantic relations is marked by the united imperialist policy of the united states of america and the european union against the peoples. you have waged three wars against the people together. this is the first and great commandment. secondly, the common policy of serving and consolidating the interests of capital; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all the activities of the community. the decisions of the dublin summit set in motion the replacement of the nato army in bosnia by the euro-army, approved the offensive plan for the middle east, ratified and legitimized the occupation of iraq, promoted a policy of terrorism against the peoples and the implementation of new anti-democratic measures such as biometric data, the global dossier and many others. it was also decided to attack pension systems and industrial relations together and to create better conditions for the action of capital. the revision of the transatlantic programme under discussion expresses the demands of european and american capital for an acceleration of anti-people measures and of the aggressive policy. the european union is a great example of the european union, and the european union is a great example of the european union. besides, you admit it in here that you have common values. in conclusion, mr president, mr bush is coming, but he will have a gruesome escort, the hundreds of thousands of innocent iraqi civilians murdered. the people of europe will ... )
counsel. the council stated that, in the context of the revised accession partnership adopted in may 2003, turkey must, inter alia, create the conditions for the proper functioning of non-muslim religious communities in accordance with the practice in force in the member states of the european union. however, while religious freedom is guaranteed by the constitution of the republic of turkey, as indicated by the european commission in its 2004 regular report, non-muslim religious communities, including the ecumenical patriarchate, continue to face obstacles and are subject to a bureaucratic regime. despite progress in this area, the problems of the legal status of non-muslim communities, the registration of land ownership and the training of clergy remain unresolved at this stage. the new overall legislation needed to address these problems is being developed. in this respect, a draft law on foundations is currently being considered by the turkish government. the turkish authorities have recently indicated that they would invite the commission to comment on this project, which is a very positive development. the honourable member is aware that the european council decided on 17 december that turkey met the copenhagen political criteria sufficiently to be eligible for accession negotiations, provided that it implements the six legislative texts identified by the commission. it called on the commission to submit to the council a proposal for a framework for negotiations with turkey on the basis of the elements listed in the presidency conclusions adopted at the end of its meeting. the council was then invited to reach agreement on this framework with a view to opening negotiations on 3 october 2005 in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the european council conclusions. the commission will continue to closely monitor the effective and comprehensive implementation of the political reform process. all the contentious issues identified in the periodic report and in the commission's recommendation, including freedom of religion, will be addressed in the report which the commission is required to submit periodically to the council.
madam president, mr president-in-office, thank you very much for your detailed reply. but since, as you said in your reply, the status of non-muslim communities, the registration of property and the question of the training of clerics have not yet been addressed, i would like to ask you the following: do you consider the progress made in this area to be satisfactory or inadequate? if it is not satisfactory to the council, what do you intend to do to achieve better results in the future?
mr president, in attempting to respond to the well-founded complaints and to the questions put by members and workers, the commission's first argument was that it had not broken any agreement on the dismissal of 43 teachers, because the agreement did not include the provision that the teachers would be employed for life. the commission's response really shows the absence of arguments and exposes it irreparably to the workers. it is therefore announced to the european parliament that jobs for all workers in the european union's services are precarious. ladies and gentlemen, the dismissal of 43 foreign language teachers after 15 to 30 years of service is an unacceptable action by the commission. it is a sign of the social pain which characterizes its general anti-people policy. (the president cut off the speaker)
of course i disagree with these practices. there's no doubt about it. in any case, it is good that all these incidents are examined to see what exactly happened and whether decisions need to be taken on the functioning of parliament. that's what's gonna happen. do not doubt!
thank you very much. it's going to happen.
in writing. we stand with respect in the grief of the thousands of dead, missing and homeless. the unprecedented solidarity confirms that the brotherhood of peoples can raise a tidal wave of humanity sweeping away the hypocrisy of governments and institutions. the earthquake's devastation has highlighted the pain of capitalism sweeping the region. the disaster hit mainly the lower classes. the predatory interventions of big business in the environment for the sake of profit bear a great responsibility for turning natural disasters into humanitarian ones. capitalism is preparing to rebuild the graves of the interests of the multinationals, to turn human tragedy into contracts and stock market indices. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. an american newspaper wrote in chilling terms: the rich nations provide aid and will dictate the terms; this means funding projects with a strict economic logic so that the benefits of reconstruction can be reaped by multinationals ignoring the needs of the people. the sums raised by popular solidarity must not be misappropriated. the people who have come to help must not allow it. the creation of a reliable monitoring body for the implementation and strict monitoring of reconstruction programmes for the benefit of the peoples, the cancellation of debts of these countries and the provision without cuts of planned aid to other third countries are some of the measures to provide relief to the victims.
in writing. the external debt of the poor, developing countries comes from loans imposed on particularly unfavourable, predatory terms by the international imperialist organizations, particularly the world bank and the imf. the purpose of these loans was not to strengthen the economies of these countries and to deal with the problems of the people, but to control the markets, the sources of wealth, the savage exploitation of the people, so that these loans worsened the position of these countries, increased their dependence on the international imperialist centres, strengthened the position of the large monopoly groups, the multinationals, particularly the american ones, in controlling the markets. without any illusions that the character and objectives of international organizations can change, we call for the cancellation of countries' external debts, the demand and imposition of international economic treaties based on mutual aid and equality of countries, the support of popular interests against the interests of multinationals. the people of these countries must therefore not confine themselves to the cancellation of debts. he is anti-imperialist. to radically change international relations and defeat the imperialist system. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way.
the time for voting is over. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, our debate today coincides with the resumption in brussels of the european union's negotiations with iran on a trade and cooperation agreement, alongside talks on political dialogue and the fight against terrorism. this is a particularly positive development following the paris agreement of november 2004 between france, germany and the united kingdom, on the part of the european union, and iran on the moratorium on uranium enrichment and the control of iranian nuclear activity. these developments, mr president, confirm the international credibility and the great political potential of the european union when it acts as a united front to solve major international problems through dialogue and political means. in view of the negative experience in iraq and in the face of the unilateral logic of the united states, the european union is in a position to formulate its own alternative proposal for international problems, in close cooperation with the un and its competent bodies. the eu is iran's number one trading partner, which demonstrates the importance of strengthening euro-iranian relations as a tool of the european strategy for democratizing iran, respecting its international obligations, and overcoming its introversion and isolation. a balanced policy of pressuring and monitoring iran's respect for democratic freedoms and human rights, while providing incentives for the development of relations, is the only effective way of instilling a climate of mutual trust, avoiding conflictual competition and a unilateral strategic approach to solving regional problems. we must remain firm supporters of human rights in iran, cooperation with civil society and dialogue at all levels. in this context, the european parliament must take concrete initiatives.
mr president of the commission, i am sorry to say that your manifesto is very much neoliberal. the failure to achieve the lisbon objectives is used as an argument to undermine the pillars of social and regional cohesion and environmental protection in the name of competitiveness. the approach of the kok committee is opposite to us, because it leads to less europe, particularly in the areas of cohesion and the environment, and to more social dumping, which undermines the european welfare state. we need ambitious, not miserable, plans for the united europe of the future. a substantial increase in own resources is needed to finance the new common policies demanded by the citizens of the 25 member states and tomorrow of the 27. the commission proposal is the minimum starting point for the financial perspective. if you want, you have a brilliant opportunity, as long as you stop stepping backwards all the time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president of the commission, given your political commitments to the european parliament, it is important at this crucial moment that you actually promote, not only in words, the integration and deepening of the policies of economic, social and regional cohesion of the europe of 25 member states, but also its competitiveness. a key and general issue to guarantee solidarity is ensuring sufficient own resources to cover effectively all cohesion policies, including those arising from the lisbon strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of your annual legislative work, which will be the basis for your assessment, in cooperation with the commissioner responsible for agriculture and rural development, mrs fischer boel, you will need to take a number of basic and substantive actions: firstly, adequate financing of agriculture and strengthening of rural development policies; secondly, to take effective measures to avoid disturbance of rural income and economic distortions between member states and regions in the implementation of the new cap and international trade agreements; thirdly, to prevent any reasonable co-financing, i.e. renationalisation of the cap; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to point out that 2005 is a period in which we will all be judged by european citizens, but also in which we will be consolidated as a single, democratic, international union.
mr president, i take over from mr jarzembowski and will speak on the subject of regional cohesion policy, and i would like to say to mr barroso that we agree with the commission's text, because it puts the right emphasis on cohesion policies. it could not be otherwise, since this year, 2005, will also be a crucial year for the future of regional policy. in this context i would like to make two very specific remarks: the first observation relates to the timing of the decisions. i hope that the decisions will be taken under the luxembourg presidency and i would ask mr schmit, the president of the council of ministers, to do his best to ensure that this is the case, because programmes are multiannual in regional policy and any delay would be detrimental to the progress of the programmes. we shall have a problem next term and we must all, each in his own way, do everything possible this year to end the decision-making. the second point i would like to make is the amount of the new financial package for regional policy, and i should like to be clear: we cannot go beyond the european commission's proposals, which call for 0.41% of gross national income for cohesion policies. if we go any further, we cannot talk about a credible regional policy, because we have much greater needs with enlargement and those needs will have to be financed. so i think you should go in that direction. i believe that you will have the support of the european parliament, and we must not forget that we cannot want more europeans with enlargement but less europe. if we want more europeans, we must want more europe. we must realize that an effective union also means a union with funding. i understand the needs of the taxpayer, i want to be realistic in my approach, i do not want to be a maximalist at all, but on the other hand, i think that realism means following the european commission's proposal, which, i repeat, provides for 0.41% of gross national income in regional policy.
mr president of the commission, i have followed the presentation of your programme and i fully share your vision of a europe of citizens, and at the same time a europe which is responsible and effective on the international scene. i also share your strategic options for achieving that vision. we will also have the opportunity to discuss individual policies both in our political groups and in our parliamentary committees and other opportunities for discussion and cooperation with you. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. they affect every aspect of our economy and society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policy we have pursued in recent years has not produced the results we expected, either in terms of growth or social cohesion. we have no room for inaction or delay. the survival of our social model, the credibility of the european union, the citizens' faith in this vision are at stake. we lived it intensely in the recent european elections and we promised the citizens that we would change everything. so it is time to make these changes. the reality and the challenges we face require boldness, change, and innovation. we have spent several years talking about reforms that were never implemented or not implemented sufficiently. and you know, reforms that are announced, talked about and not done, do harm. they create confusion, insecurity, pessimism, whether it is bureaucracy or the insurance or pension system. they restrict consumption, they restrict entrepreneurship and they lock europe into the low growth rates we have today. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. open the way to a new europe with dynamism and hope.
mr. president, today, fifty-seven years later, we are given a golden opportunity to right a wrong that has cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. if in 1948, when we gave shelter, state to israel, we had done the same with the palestinians, many people would have been saved; i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work done by the european parliament in this area. maybe 9/11 would never have happened if we accepted the public justification of the moral mastermind bin laden. the death of iphigenia brought a bitter wind to agamemnon. the death of arafat, (sometimes a terrorist, sometimes a negotiator, sometimes a nobel peace prize winner, occasionally, as he served the establishment) and the death of sharon's monarchy in israel may bring the bitter wind of peace. if we do not act effectively and immediately, this golden opportunity will be lost. terrorism will escalate, and state terrorism is more brutal than sniper terrorism. america seems to be changing course. he wants to leave, turn around the middle east and go to moscow, with all that entails. but we live in the region, we host 40 million arabs, we here in this place did not give the jew the chance to live during the nazi occupation. we must now seize the opportunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the hypocritical congratulations and salutations on the palestinian elections, the israeli government continues its murderous policy against the palestinian people. the resumption of work on the extension of the wall of shame, the confiscation of the property of palestinians expelled from east jerusalem, despite the collapse of the excuse put forward in the past by the israeli government for the alleged lack of a palestinian interlocutor. the israeli government's intransigence is being fed by the policy of the united states of america and the european union. the resolution itself raises the so-called 'palestinian terrorism' as a priority issue. a new smear campaign is under way linking the palestinians to iran and syria as an axis of evil and a source of terrorism, in order to justify the intransigence of the israeli government and to prepare public opinion to accept the new imperialist interventions and wars planned in the aggressive plan for the middle east. it is clear that in today's debate there has also been an unacceptable attempt to link a european party which belongs to the european parliament, sinn féin, to terrorism. this is unacceptable. we express our solidarity with the palestinian people in the creation of an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, a great palestinian poet, mahmoud darwish, wrote in a recent poem in memory of another palestinian intellectual, edward said, a poem. i read it in french:
mr president, we are discussing today, for the eleventh time in the european parliament, the long-standing human tragedy experienced by the peoples of palestine and israel. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. the new situation which has arisen after the palestinian presidential elections suggests that the conditions are ripe for an opportunity for peace, stability and security in a troubled region. the return to the negotiating table is more than imperative. the road map for peace must be reactivated. it is precisely the strengthening of the road map that will allow the negotiation of a lasting and final peace agreement. i would like to stress the need to strengthen the special role of the quartet. it is a role which must reflect the elements of coherence, clarity of objectives and determination. i would also like to point out that mr solana's practical proposals on security, reforms and financial assistance are moving in the right direction. they constitute a substantial european contribution to the effort to establish framework conditions for strengthening both political and economic security. our central objective is clear (as set out by the december european council): an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state, which will coexist in peace and security with israel and the neighbouring states. but it is not enough that we want it. the main actors in the conflict must themselves want it.
in writing. racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism are cultivated and used on a case-by-case basis in capitalism, which is based on exploitation and oppression. since its inception, communist ideology has rejected these phenomena, making only a distinction between exploiters and exploited. communists fight for the brotherhood of peoples and workers of the whole world, regardless of gender, race, color and religion. that's why they're the main victims of fascism. the kke meps did not vote for the joint resolution because it makes no reference to the tens of thousands of communists and other anti-fascist fighters who were murdered in hitler's concentration camps. this is historical disrespect. the european parliament is no longer taking a position on the official revival of fascism in the former baltic states, where honours and monuments are being erected to nazi collaborators. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages. the debate on anti-semitism is an attempt to cover up the zionist policy of the israeli state, which is carrying out genocide against the palestinians, similar to that experienced by the jews who suffered in the hitler camps. the people of europe must celebrate 27 january and 9 may as they deserve, far from the deliberate falsifications of the european parliament.
mr president, a few days ago, the president of the greek parliament, greeting the new president of the republic, told him that, in view of the referendum - in view of the adoption of the constitution - greece must limit its national borders and its national sovereignty. that is dramatic. the greek people must be informed why, for the welfare of europe, they must be deprived of territory and sovereignty. that's what i heard. there must be a way to at least calm the greek people. we want the prosperity of europe, but certainly not at the expense of our national borders, at the expense of our national sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the abstention was long... (the president interrupted the speaker)
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the conditions for the granting of licences for the carriage of goods by road. this is the quintessence of the common market and the internal market in europe. the greek euroscepticism is that it is precisely the european union that has not moved at the same speed in terms of its union policy, in terms of acquiring a genuine authentic european defence identity. the president of the greek parliament said that economic frontiers had been removed and that there was a single, homogeneous economic area.
mr president, criminal justice in europe must be independent but not beyond evaluation and beyond examination. the european citizen must have confidence in this justice, he must have confidence that his fundamental rights will be respected, he must have confidence that transparency and quality will be present in any court of the european union. we, very recently in greece, had a very bad experience: the exposure of scandals and bribery in the justice system. it is a revelation that has shaken the confidence of the greek citizens in their justice system. and while the greek judiciary is cleansing itself today, that's not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore called upon to bring europe to bear. support how? with an assessment of specific procedures and best practices. what's the problem there? anyone who questions the value of this assessment is being very clever. even if a member state believes that its criminal justice system is so excellent that it has nothing to learn from others, it should at least help others learn from it. and since the judges themselves are involved in the quality map, there is no problem about their independence with this proposal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. which i fully support. the rapporteur's report contains positive elements because it specifies the dates and points out the need to speed up the procedure, in the case of an urgent request, to 48 hours. the commissioner should be told, however, that the issues raised in the reports by both mr di pietro and mr costa are moving in the right direction, but they cannot be regarded as bold steps. i believe, for example, that the application of the principle of mutual recognition in the field of criminal convictions should be a matter of immediate priority. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i sincerely believe, mr president, that the integration of the european union cannot be achieved unless we move rapidly towards the unification of the rules on justice. but the commissioner's speech today did not convince me that the commission will take these rapid steps in this direction, and i regret that.
on behalf of the team. the title 'state aid for public service' is a false title, mr president, since it is aid to undertakings. as long as state monopolies existed in public services they served primarily the interests of the bourgeoisie. but today, too, in the context of capitalist restructuring, most public services have been and will be given to private capital, so that its profitability can be enhanced in this form. the main criterion for state aid from the european union is therefore not to meet people's needs and solve people's problems but, when it is approved, to ensure that capital is not damaged in any way and that there are no effects on its profitability. the commission proposal is also part of the capitalist restructuring which promotes the opening up of markets where capital will also generate new profits, while the aspects of the proposal to exempt the european union from granting state aid to small services of general interest, airlines and shipping companies, are insignificant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, it is particularly positive that the commission, in its reports on developments in the sector, stresses, among other things, the need for further community efforts in the media sector, so that their liberalisation can ensure pluralism and economic development. the commissioner, the rapporteur and mr evans, i really want to congratulate you personally on your work and in particular on your work on this report. i would point out here that, because of the cultural specificity of the audiovisual sector, which means that this sector should not be treated as a normal industrial sector, the commission must clarify the role of the main stakeholders on the basis of competition policy. do you consider it important for the commission to enforce pluralism in the media, both at national and community level, while ensuring that everyone is free to participate in the audiovisual media? commissioner, since the commission emphasizes that the competition rules, as you say in your report, are the ones on which the solution to the problems arising from the creation or strengthening of market dominance in dealing with priority agreements will be based, is a policy to be adopted in which restrictions on the main shareholder will be a deterrent to the competition policy of the media? i would like to have a reply so that our rapporteur, mr evans, can accept the amendment tabled by the socialist group.
mr president, the reports on the budgetary situation in emu and the state of the european economy in no way take account of the popular problems common to the workers of the member states, which are themselves the cause: the anti-people policy of the european union. the fact that the problems are common is shown by the mobilizations of workers in most countries against punctuality, unemployment, low wages, layoffs, privatization in the health, education, welfare, increasing working hours, insecurity and uncertainty about the future. the rapporteur, instead of responding to the above, advocates stricter compliance with the stability pact with tax-defying and anti-people austerity programmes to combat deficits. that is, always the workers pay, never the plutocracy. at the same time, they call for the anti-people lisbon strategy to be implemented more rapidly in order to promote greater exploitation of labour through part-time and temporary work, the increase in working hours and retirement ages, the abolition of state participation in social security, the circumvention of collective agreements. it is the new redistribution of wealth with even greater benefit to capital and increased inequality and injustice. they are even calling for a boost to the european economy - that is, to the profitability of european monopolies - with new, tougher and more anti-people austerity measures and are calling for workers to participate in greater sacrifices - for their sake - while demanding that governments reduce even the minimal social spending that remains and make immediate changes to the insurance and pension systems that they say are inadequate. these are the logic and policies of the european union that lead workers to express themselves with high abstention from electoral processes - such as the european elections, with 60% abstention, or the recent spanish referendum on the so-called european constitution, with an abstention of about 60 to 65%. it is a sign that workers feel neglected and therefore turn their backs on the european union. but the best response is to organize a struggle of indiscipline in this policy and to counterattack for its radical change.
mr president, we are talking about competitiveness. but competitiveness is directly linked to the currency's value. we have allowed the euro to be overvalued against the dollar from 0.84 to 1.30, seriously damaging our competitiveness. the central bank has essentially sacrificed competitiveness, where we were lagging behind, to achieve stabilisation, where we had no problem. we have therefore shielded our strengths and left our weaknesses uncovered. so the expensive euro made the recession worse. the recession has reduced the propensity of companies to take investment risks and to adopt innovations. what does the lisbon strategy have to do with you? look at what americans, russians, chinese and indians are doing. where all our competitors emphasize competitiveness and growth, we emphasize waste and debt. everyone else is outperforming us while we're plunging into a chronic recession. should we start asking ourselves about our economic policy mix? as long as the current mix continues, the lisbon strategy and the stability pact will become increasingly incompatible with each other. the lisbon strategy is a good one, but the monetary policy of the european central bank should also help. the european central bank must ease monetary policy so that the member states can tighten fiscal policy, especially on the expenditure side. so what active demand loses in public spending, it will gain in increased exports and we will avoid increased taxes. this is a policy mix that combines discipline and growth. but to do that, we need the central bank to cooperate. of course, we need discipline. but different discipline, different rigidity. as long as we confuse discipline with rigidity, we will have no discipline, no growth, no competitiveness.
on behalf of the team. the idea of a cultural capital is perhaps the most beautiful idea in the european union. it is the brainchild of a great actress - minister of culture of greece - who, with her award-winning song "the children of piraeus", made piraeus the cultural capital of the world in the 1960s. i think that culture is the primary product in europe: above the economy, above the military, above diplomacy. the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let us make the 'dead city' - the only dead city on our continent, the continent of the great civilizations, the mycenaean, the minoan, the roman: famagusta - the cultural capital next year. sandcastle has been a dead town for 30 years. the only dead city in the world. let us make it a cultural capital, let us give it life where barbarism has taken it. let us make it the cultural capital and win where all the plans and, a few months ago, the annan plan lost. if we make sandokosto the cultural capital you will see a greek cypriot student with a turkish cypriot student marching and we will all be proud. we will be proud because we will bring peace and give life to the most beautiful city in the mediterranean. it's a good idea: to make decisions where diplomacy cannot. to make decisions where denial is particularly depressing. let's really give this initiative a meaning. it's a big deal, mr. figeľ, to have this town open and the main square be called 'jean figeľ square' tomorrow. try to honor that idea.
member of the commission. i wish to say at the outset that this is really a question on public procurement and not on the services directive. the first point to note is that, as regards the participation in procedures for the award of public works contracts, it is not contrary to community law that technical, architectural or construction companies holding shares in other companies which provide audiovisual services in one member state, including the member states of establishment, participate in such procedures in any of the member states, including the one in which they are established. under community public procurement law, there is an exhaustive list of criteria to exclude companies from public procurement contracts. examples of these are when a company is being wound up, when its managers have been involved in proven misconduct, or when tax or social security obligations have not been fulfilled. member states may not add criteria to this list. as regards the proposed directive on services, the commission can confirm that all these services fall within its scope. it is the case that certain member states impose restrictions on multi-disciplinary activities that may restrict either the freedom of establishment or the cross-border provision of services. in order to deal with these kinds of potential barriers, article 30 of the proposal stipulates that member states shall ensure that providers are not made subject to requirements which oblige them to exercise a given activity exclusively, or in a manner which restricts the exercise of different activities either jointly or in partnership. however, exceptions are made for regulated professions and providers of certification, accreditation, technical monitoring, and test or trial services. for activities where multidisciplinary activities are authorised, member states shall ensure that conflicts of interest and incompatibilities between certain activities are prevented, that independence and impartiality – when required – are secured, and that rules on professional ethics and conduct for different activities are compatible. these requirements will be subject to mutual evaluation by the member states and the commission.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his clear answer to my question and i would add that these restrictions imposed by greek legislation on the basis of the principle of the majority shareholder will not only affect construction companies, as mentioned in my question, but will affect all the economic sectors of services in which they operate and are proposed by the commission in the services directive, such as food, advertising companies, the tourism industry, architectural firms, natural or legal persons. i think that the adjustment should be made in that direction, and i thank you very much.
the commission's vice-president i do not hesitate to tell mr purvis that we are in a situation of subsidiarity, and it is really up to the member state to decide whether there should be any infrastructure improvements. what i want to say to mr purvis is that we do not intend to harmonise the direction of traffic in the european union, given the exorbitant cost of such action and the foreseeable sharp increase in the number of accidents during the transitional phase. on the other hand, it is common sense that there should be adjustments as you have just suggested, and i think that the member state in question should be able to try to respond to them. the commission will welcome any additional information on the causes of accidents in europe, and has set itself the task of proposing any measure which will reduce by half the number of people killed on the roads.
the commission's vice-president madam member, we have a deadline, which means that in 2005 we are halfway through the programme covering the ten years that the union has committed itself to halving the number of people killed. so it is obvious, madam, that this year is going to be the year of the general diagnosis. at the moment we are gathering all the data which will enable us, in a second phase, to step up our measures to achieve this ambitious but indispensable objective of halving the number of people killed on the roads of the union. i thank you for sharing this concern, which should be of interest to all.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to reply to mr papadimoulis that the text proposed by the commission for the port services directive defines the term 'self-help' and its application in greater detail than in the past. but, mr president, the debate on this proposal for a directive on port services is just beginning. the hearing scheduled for june in the committee on transport will be a perfect opportunity to go into the main issues, including the social aspects, and to obtain the views of all the parties concerned. the proposal makes self-help subject to authorisation, the criteria for which cover, in particular, wage and working conditions. the introduction of an authorisation is intended to ensure, inter alia, that self-help providers comply with the wage and working conditions applicable in a port. the commission therefore considers that its proposal, and in particular the self-help clauses, will not have any negative consequences for the employment and income of those already employed in the port sector. the commission also considers that the application of the principles and rules set out in its proposal for a directive will lead to a transfer of additional traffic volumes to the maritime mode, which will inevitably create additional activities and jobs in european ports. when presenting its proposal for a directive, the commission invited the member states to ratify the conventions adopted under the auspices of international organizations, and in particular the relevant conventions of the international labour organization, including the ilo convention on port handling to which you refer in your question. i hope that at the hearing in june your examination will be fruitful and that we will reach a balanced text which will allow the sector to be revitalised while, of course, preserving the working conditions to which i am personally very attached.
the commissioner, allow me to insist. i'm right here in front of you. in addition to the reactions of the trade unions, in december 2004, when the commission presented its proposal to the council, we had several member states expressing criticism. among them, france, germany, england, sweden, belgium criticised the commission for not having consulted sufficiently on the subject, for not having investigated the consequences of implementation. in view of the negative precedent where the commission has put forward a proposal which the european parliament voted against, do you intend to reconsider the content of the proposal or do you intend to go ahead despite the reactions?
the commission's vice-president mr papadimoulis, the proposal was rejected at the end of the legislative process, when work had already been undertaken. on this basis, the commission did not completely rewrite the text, but wanted to take account of the concerns and concerns expressed during the discussions. i think the commission has wisely given itself time to work and the opportunity to hear all sides. and i will personally see to it that this debate is conducted with great care.
the commission's vice-president i would like to reply to mr papastamkos that in the context of the accession negotiations the commission has identified, in agreement with the countries concerned, the future transeuropean networks, both road and rail, of romania and bulgaria, where the main connections with greece are indicated. in april 2004, the european parliament and the council adopted priority projects for trans-european networks. there are two projects which help to connect greece with its neighbours to the north and with central europe: the athens-sofia-budapest motorway and the athens-sofia-budapest-vienna-prague-nuremberg railway. on 11 june 2004, the western balkan countries and the commission signed a memorandum of understanding on the promotion of strategic networks in the region, which had been identified in a commission report in 2001. the commission is therefore also actively involved in the efforts of the countries concerned to develop pan-european transport corridors, including four of them. corridors 4, 8, 9 and 10 concern greece and its connections with the countries of south-west europe. the commission, on my proposal, has recently set up a high-level group chaired by the former vice-president of the commission, mrs loyola de palacio, to identify by the end of 2005 the priority axes or projects linking the enlarged european union with its neighbours to the east and south. in this context, greece's connections with its western balkan neighbours are also examined. in recent years the commission has allocated substantial sums from the budget for the transeuropean networks, the structural financial instruments and the phare and cards programmes to road and rail projects concerning greece's main links with its northern neighbours. the commission also intends to strengthen its efforts in the financial perspective for 2007-13 with all the indications i have just given and which i do not want to repeat. it is up to the countries concerned to take the initiative in preparing and proposing projects which could be financially supported by community funds and european investment bank loans.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his detailed reply. the fact that the economic area of the region is still fragmented and isolated and that its regional and european integration is being hindered is of particular interest to me. my supplementary question is whether the commission really intends to give greater emphasis to those transport networks which, on the one hand, promote the integration of the southern european area and, on the other hand, by linking them to the transeuropean networks, help to link these countries - the countries of south-eastern europe - with the european union and the integration of the wider economic area.
the commission's proposal for a directive on driving licences is a step towards bringing more europe into the daily lives of our citizens. legislation is becoming more accessible, more transparent and more effective in areas that are key to our free movement within a single european market. our rapporteur, mr mathieu grosch, has come a long way and made a great effort to combine different sensitivities, different practices and has contributed in his own way to the improvement of this proposal and we thank him for that. a harmonized, though not necessarily homogenized, licensing system would help to combat fraud and confusion, which can easily occur today because of the variety of different licences in the european union. the issue of a licence on a plastic card, the replacement of old cards within 10 years, and the possibility, albeit optional, of importing a microcircuit facilitate checks and reduce the risk of fraud. the mutual recognition of sanctions will also contribute to this, promoting an area of security and justice in the european union. this proposal for a directive also contributes to improving road safety, which is a key objective of european policy. the right criteria for selecting examiners, their continuing training, periodic medical examinations of drivers, the extension of the principle of gradual access to driving licences to more noisy types of vehicles are elements that govern the protection of our lives, our quality of life and, ultimately, our democracy. they are at the heart of the european social model and we must defend them.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should first like to thank mrs wortmann-kool for her remarkable way of recalling the context, explaining the issues and describing the content of this compromise solution which i hope will be adopted by your assembly tomorrow. i'll just add a few words. the negotiations on this proposal for a directive started almost two years ago. we have had to overcome obstacles, we have not always shared the views of some of you, and i would like to warmly welcome and thank the three rapporteurs who took part in these negotiations in turn, and in particular mrs wortmann-kool, who is the real architect of today's success. with this future directive, the european institutions will finally give a concrete answer to the expectations of our citizens who want the gas leaks and other disasters of the past to cease. i heard, and you just said, ma'am, that we wanted to criminalize the captains, the crews. well, i really want to say that that is absolutely not our intention. on the contrary, this directive is intended to serve the profession. we target the rarest cases, the ones that are intolerable and unacceptable; we are seeking to empower all operators upstream in the long chain of maritime transport. and i have to say that i was a little surprised by the reaction of the secretary general of the international maritime organization, whom i met last week. i must say that, as i told him in london at the imo headquarters, the text before parliament is in full compliance with international law, namely the marpol convention on the prevention of pollution and the un convention on the law of the sea. our text is in line with this and we are simply using the opportunity offered by the marpol convention to supplement it. we are obviously acting at the level of the union and not at the level of each member state, but i do not think that the imo can see in this approach any intention of criminalising the crews and the captains. i say this with force and conviction, and i would like to reassure all those members who, on reading a letter, may have felt that they did not fully understand our intentions. i would say, mr president, that the adoption of this text will be a success. the commission had, it is true, envisaged in its proposal for a directive the establishment of a genuine system of criminal sanctions. the text submitted to your assembly is less ambitious in this respect, since the criminal elements have been transferred to the third pillar, namely a framework decision. it is true that i regret it, the commission regrets it, but we are making sense of it, we accept it because all the other aspects of the proposal are not distorted. and we are getting pollution offences defined in the same way throughout europe and subject to comparable deterrent sanctions throughout europe. this is very important, and i would like to say that all the parliamentarians of the european union who have lived through the tragedies of the oil spill at one time or another understand that we are condemned to action, otherwise, one day or another, we will be faced with a new disaster and be blamed. on the basis of this directive, it will in future be up to the commission, assisted by the european maritime safety agency, and all the competent authorities in the member states to join forces to strengthen surveillance, detect infringements and punish the guilty. in this connection, i must say, on a personal basis, that parliament's wishes concerning the european coastguard are entirely in line with our wishes. mr president, i should like to say a few words on amendments nos 19 to 23 without going into too much detail. the commission recommends that the house should not accept them for two reasons. firstly, because the compromise package is being called into question, whereas conciliation could complicate matters, and also for substantive reasons. amendments nos 19 and 22 aim to draw up an exhaustive list of all operators in the long chain of maritime transport who can be held liable in the event of accidents and pollution. in fact, this list already exists in a more condensed form in recital 7 of the common position, which is not called into question by any compromise. amendment no 20 concerns the system of liability for damages for places of refuge. this is a very important matter which the commission is also examining very closely, and i must refer to a study on this subject which i will be forwarding to the european parliament in the coming days. amendments nos 21 and 23 seek to call into question what the commission regards as a real step forward. the european union will set up a truly operational deterrence and sanction system in territorial waters: all those who pollute will have to be sanctioned if they have been grossly negligent. this is an advance on the international standards, in particular the marpol convention, which must be completed. only those who have acted deliberately and those who have committed an unforgivable wrong can be punished. our text therefore allows for a breakthrough made possible by the convention on the law of the sea. the convention gives coastal states the opportunity to strengthen their pollution prevention and control systems in their territorial waters. we have seized on this opportunity and i do not think there is any point in going backwards. that is why the commission does not agree on the substance and why it is good that the committee on transport has been wise in not accepting amendments nos 21 and 23. finally, a word on amendment no 2, which refers to recital 7. this amendment concerns the revision of the international system of compensation for damage caused by oil pollution, the so-called fipol system. this amendment was not accepted by the council; it is true that its subject-matter goes somewhat beyond the scope of the directive. at the trilogue meeting, parliament's delegation agreed to withdraw this amendment. at the invitation of the council and parliament, the commission agreed to make a statement in three points, which i would remind you of. firstly, the commission reaffirms its determination to help the member states to find common ground on the revision of the international fipol system. secondly, the commission insists on the implementation of international conventions on liability and compensation in the event of pollution. thirdly, the commission wants to present a legislative proposal, as part of the third maritime safety package, on compulsory insurance for all ships entering a community port. in conclusion, mr president, and with my apologies for being a little long, the commission supports the package of 13 compromise amendments and looks forward with confidence to the position your assembly will take on this package. i call on you to be vigilant: it is imperative that the council respects its commitments and adopts the directive and the framework decision swiftly and simultaneously. i shall be concentrating on the actual implementation of this framework decision. all this is necessary if the compromise is to make sense and if european public opinion is to feel much better protected against all this marine pollution, the extremely disastrous effects of which the rapporteur has shown on our natural heritage and on all the wealth of the sea. may i, mr president, urge the house strongly not to be tempted to follow the comments, which i believe are wrong, that we are criminalising the people of the sea. instead, we try to make them more responsible within the limits of what is reasonable and proportionate. i must say that the text is balanced and since the trilogue has produced an interinstitutional agreement, i think we are well on our way to implementing this text, which will, i assure you, be very well received by all those who fear, at one time or another, a new black tide. i therefore thank parliament, mr president, for giving all the attention it deserves to this text which is so important for our fellow europeans.
on behalf of the team. i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, commissioner, and to our rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, because the subject we are discussing tonight is of particular importance and involves many aspects of sustainable economic growth and job creation. the european union's policy is aimed at developing maritime transport and at the same time protecting the marine environment, an objective which we all share. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods by road is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done in drawing up this proposal. the main reason for this finding is that the provisions introduced create a breach of the international marpol convention as regards the basis of liability for accidental pollution and the marine areas where it applies. this issue can have major legal and economic implications. in such a case, community law would violate international law and, at the same time, would undermine the authority of the international maritime organisation which is the only body that can apply measures to protect the sea at international level because, we must not forget, shipping is a global activity that cannot have many measures and many scales. experience shows that regional measures lead to confusion, legal inequality and administrative difficulties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of a new fishing fleet. another negative aspect of this proposal is the criminalisation of seafarer's work, because this is also the main aspect of the proposal. sailors have a difficult and dangerous life already. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime industry is not left behind by the current crisis. for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to approach this matter responsibly and with perspective and to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the new democracy meps together with their colleagues from other political groups and countries who intend to adapt our proposal to the international marpol convention. i thank you very much and i believe that, regardless of the outcome of the vote, we must look at a long-term strategy that goes beyond restrictive measures and criminal sanctions.
on behalf of the team. mr president, my group, in its large majority, supports the proposal and rejects the amendments which seek to weaken it. the vast majority of citizens are calling for stricter measures to prevent marine pollution, which affects not only the environment and public health but also fisheries and tourism. the package of measures we are discussing today seeks to complete a project which began years ago and was delayed by the reactions of three member states who opposed the commission's original proposal for a directive. but how can anyone object to such a directive when we take into account the ecological cost? the cost of the fishing industry, the cost of the blow to tourism, as well as the unemployment that plagues areas hit by oil pollution. in 1999 alone, in the mediterranean region - and the mediterranean is a closed sea - 1638 illegal dumping cases were reported. think of how many were made and not reported because they were not detected. the number of oil spills detected in the north sea and the baltic in 2001 was similar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to call on the greek government, the government of my country, to abandon the policy of sterile denial. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'cruise ship' to cover vessels which are not subject to the provisions of the directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, experience has shown that preventive and punitive measures to punish ship owners, ship operators, ship managers and, more generally, persons and authorized bodies responsible for the condition, operation and seaworthiness of ships for pollution-related offences are grossly inadequate. by court decisions, ship owners, shipowners, managers, agents, insurers, charterers, cargo owners and others who make up the chain of logistical infrastructure of ships, perpetrators of maritime crimes and environmental disasters, making use of national and international legislation, are not punished. on the contrary, in violation of international law, shipowners are being used as scapegoats, hostages, to appease the worker's concerns and to stop the mass workers' movement fighting for the protection of the environment. it has been shown that a policy designed to increase competitiveness and the profits of shipping and land-based industries and monopolies is extremely dangerous for the protection of human life at sea and the environment. the directive on pollution from ships and the introduction of penalties for infringements is part of this anti-people policy, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of companies and increase the profitability of capital. it places the blame for accidents on the crew of ships, perpetuates the insurgency of shipping and land-based industries, leaves ship owners, shipowners, managers, charterers, surveyors, insurance companies and others untouched. it maintains and strengthens the co-responsibility of shipowners and seafarers. if time were not so limited, i could cite a thousand examples showing that the responsibilities of the master and crew have nothing to do with those of the ship's owners and masters. the pollution of the sea and the destruction of the environment are matters of great political importance. in conclusion, on the basis of the reference made to our amendment no 19, let me say, mr president, that: we really do not understand, since both the commissioner and the rapporteur and the council accept that it does not change the substance of amendment no 19, why they do not accept the terms which actually identify more clearly the persons responsible for pollution-related violations ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a proposal for a directive which is the direct consequence of a tragic event. i am referring to the sinking of the prestige in november 2002, which resulted in a huge loss of maritime wealth and the lives of seafarers in a european country. the investigations that followed this tragic event showed that responsibility in these cases is shared by many involved bodies and actors. it is a pity that we have had to suffer a very great ecological disaster to realise that, although the vast majority of those who operate in the shipping industry operate responsibly, there are a few whose irresponsibility can have enormous negative consequences for the marine environment. greece, a country with a long tradition in shipping, thanks to the conscientiousness of the shipping industry workers and, of course, of the shipowners and greek seamen, as well as all others involved, has not suffered any major accidental pollution disaster to date. as greek socialists, who are concerned both with the protection of the environment and of the people working in the shipping industry, we support the proposal and believe that this proposal for a directive is a positive step in the fight against both functional and accidental pollution and intentional pollution, as the rapporteur mrs wortmann-kool has very rightly pointed out. we must act as a deterrent to recklessness and irresponsibility. in a large lake like the mediterranean, with increased shipping traffic which is multiplying day by day, as a greek from a country which is the largest maritime power in the union, but also a country in which tourism is a key sector of its economy, a country with a huge length of coast and hundreds of islands, i believe that we have a duty to take the lead in the fight against marine pollution and the protection of the marine world.
mr president, if in the past the great french historian braudel has highlighted in his work the political and economic importance of the mediterranean for europe, international and regional developments in recent years have made the mediterranean area of strategic importance for the future of the european union. it is true, mr president, that euro-mediterranean cooperation, as it was formulated in barcelona in 1995, was involved in the arab-israeli conflict and has not brought the expected results. the european union must now, alongside the implementation of the road map for palestine, take the initiative within the framework of the quartet to draw up a road map for peace between israel and syria. we now need a comprehensive approach to peace, democracy, security and stability in the middle east. syria, like israel, should respect the un security council resolutions on lebanon and withdraw its forces. at the same time, we need to reassess the barcelona process in the new framework of the european neighbourhood strategy that we have established, in order to avoid overlapping policies and initiatives. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the european commission and the council are called upon to follow up the initiative of former president of the european commission, romano prodi, when he created the initiative on dialogue between the peoples and cultures of the euro-mediterranean area in 2002, and the related proposals put forward by the committee of wise men.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i consider it very important that we are having this debate today in the european parliament. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i want to stand on two or three points: the first point concerns euro-mediterranean policy and the situation in the middle east. it is true that a new wind is blowing in the middle east at the moment - and that is a positive thing - but history has shown that we must always approach the peace process with a moderate degree of optimism, but at the same time with the will to contribute as the european union, not only economically but also politically. the second point is the countries surrounding israel and palestine. the new situation in which lebanon finds itself after the assassination of hariri, the relations with syria which need attention and, of course, the role of egypt, which has always been a stabilizing role. i think we have to look very carefully at our relations with syria in the future. and there are many proposals and many alternatives. the third point concerns iraq. the fact is that we are in the process of rebuilding. we have had the election results, which show a full map of what is happening in that country, and of course we have to approach our relations with iraq step by step, and with the first important element being our help in shaping the new constitution. relations with iran - we know the debate there is - i am one of those who would say to you 'beware of nuclear energy' because i am against nuclear energy, against nuclear weapons, but at the same time i would say to you that the approach must be a diplomatic approach and not a military approach and wars. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. they're multiplying. finally, commissioner, after thanking you very much for your efforts on the euro-mediterranean policy, i would like to ask that we all agree that the european union must be present in the mediterranean and in the middle east in particular, politically and not just economically.
acting president of the council. mr president, i think that this debate has shown, first of all, that parliament is an important, indeed an essential, partner in the relaunch of the barcelona process. a number of suggestions have been made and i shall try to return to some of the points that have been raised. i would like to say first of all that the democratic project, the project of democracy for the mediterranean, is a european idea. with the barcelona process we have effectively defended this idea of defending democracy in this region. and in this context, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly is an important step, since we all know that democracy is also a form of learning. the first stage in learning about parliamentarism and parliamentary democracy is in this context of exchange. we all know that not all members of parliament are nominated in exactly the same way, or elected in exactly the same way. but i think this assembly is a step in the right direction. you have an important mission, which i would almost call democratic education, but also education for peace and dialogue, since today's enemies, perhaps those of yesterday, are gathered in this parliament. and i think this way of talking together is an extremely important point. in fact, at your meeting in cairo, the presidency will be honoured to be present at your deliberations. another point which was discussed at length and which concerns the council is the situation in lebanon. the internal situation in lebanon has become extremely fragile after the assassination of former prime minister hariri. i have noted that a number of comments and even demands have been made. i can tell you that, first of all, there is what i would call a perfect agreement between the european union and the united states on lebanon, and that was clearly shown in yesterday's discussions. un resolution 1559, initially supported by a european country and the united states, is taking on a whole new dimension in the context of the crisis into which the assassination of hariri risks plunging the country. our attitude towards syria is not one of weakness. i think we tried to work with the syrians. we have hoped, and we continue to hope, that syria will join the train of reform, of democratization. but we also know, and we must acknowledge, that the forces in favour of this development are probably still very small and very weak. that is why we may have to move to another form of dialogue with that country, and the question of signing in time at least remains open. i would also like to say a word about hezbollah. i think there is no ambiguity, and we all know that hezbollah is a political group, since its members are members of the lebanese parliament, and it is also engaged in other activities. but just putting him on the list isn't going to solve the problem. so i think we have to follow this hezbollah issue very closely. we must also look at the attitude of hezbollah in relation to the current situation in lebanon. i must say that the threats that have been voiced by hezbollah leaders regarding the stability of the country, the stability of lebanon, do not inspire confidence and should probably lead us to take further action in this regard. i would just like to say that when it comes to syria, there was at least one positive point that filled us with hope, when syria accepted the non-proliferation clause after long negotiations and long discussions. it was a glimmer of hope to bring this country towards a more responsible attitude, an attitude in line with the principles defended by the european union and the international community. as regards the peace process, i think we can all agree that it is an essential element in giving new impetus to the barcelona process and to the dialogue with the mediterranean region. i agree with mr morillon that europe must plan for the post-peace period. i can assure him that those responsible for these aspects of the peace-keeping force will certainly not neglect this preparation and planning. i would like to conclude with a point which is particularly close to my heart, namely the issue of immigration, since i am also responsible for dealing with it during the presidency. the european union has no intention of building a new wall between the two shores of the mediterranean. thousands of people have been reported to have perished trying to cross the mediterranean. they are not victims of a wall between europe and the other side of the mediterranean. first, there are the problems of poverty, misery and oppression. but they are also the lives of smugglers, of criminal gangs who use and buy their desperation. so i believe that it is with our partners on the other side of the mediterranean that we must work and fight against these criminal practices and activities. these elements are contained in the hague programme, which also introduces the issue of immigration into the approach of the new neighbourhood policy. i believe that the approach to immigration, particularly with our mediterranean neighbours, must be part of a much more comprehensive approach. we will have a first debate this week in the justice and home affairs council on the green paper proposed by the commission, which was also presented by commissioner frattini to your parliament. it is a green paper on legal immigration. i believe that we need to take a partnership approach and try to find solutions for an orderly, controlled, but also legal immigration that allows, once people arrive in europe, to integrate them and to make them fully participate in our society.
member of the commission. i would like to say to you, mr president, that there is a great deal of ambition to improve our cooperation with the mediterranean countries, both in relation to the platform we have had in the euro-mediterranean area for ten years and in relation to the action plans, and of course in relation to the peace process in the mediterranean. it is true that we have to do everything so that this small, first step of the peace process can be consolidated, and it must be consolidated on both sides. mahmoud abbas has to dismantle the terrorist structures and get rid of illegal arms and the tunnels. the other side must make an effort too. i gave both leaders this clear message. the israelis have to do everything possible as well. first they have to release prisoners, giving the palestinians confidence so that they don't use weapons any more. the israelis must also go back to the table. they must guarantee freedom of movement for the palestinian people and for goods. only when the economy starts to flourish can there be a chance for real peace in the middle east. as mr brok and mr laschet mentioned, we now have to do everything to support this peace process, including politically, within the quartet. i am very proud to be a new member of that. the next quartet meeting will be held in london. there we can go on supporting this process, step by step. yesterday we talked about it with condoleezza rice and president bush. they have now nominated a security coordinator for the area to help address future incidents. this is important in order for the process to continue. the gaza disengagement will be very difficult. it will now be a coordinated disengagement. sharon has already said this. this has been one of the long-standing challenges. now it is a promise. we must make financial efforts, too, and give the palestinians everything. i also want to pay tribute to my predecessor, because i supported the palestinian authority in very difficult circumstances. i particularly wanted to mention that. i want to do the same, but of course in a transparent way. 'quick start' projects can be started up on top of what we are already doing as soon as the withdrawal from gaza begins. we provide help in the fields of education, health and job creation, and we often work with unrwa. we will also start up investment projects, for instance with the sea port. i have already announced this. so, you can see we're not taking this process lightly. on the contrary, we take it very seriously. my colleague from the council has already gone into great detail with regard to lebanon. for us, it is very important to show lebanon that now, the first steps towards a democratic process must be consolidated by elections. we are currently considering different options, including election observation and support, but negotiations in that regard are still ongoing with the lebanese. we hope we can make progress. yesterday, we talked about the broader middle east with condoleezza rice. this is an excellent opportunity to use the momentum that is there to move forward with the peace process, our neighbourhood policy, the barcelona process and the new american engagement to aim for the same goals. all this must be done in parallel. we want to make use of what we have already done. we have given an enormous amount of money under the meda programme. at the end of 2004, eur 1002 million was committed in the mediterranean and the middle east, including eur 160 million for iraq. with regard to iraq, payments amounted to eur 1 125 million. in 2004 we committed about eur 700 million and paid eur 800 million, so the payments/commitments ratio is 115%. improved performance goes hand in hand with the enhancement of the quality of programmes. i appeal to you to support us when it comes to the financial perspectives and the european neighbourhood policy instrument. that is the instrument that will really help us to act. we gave eur 320 million to iraq last year, particularly for health, education and basic needs. we have just mentioned another eur 200 million that we want to give to support the population and the constitutional process. we are ready to designate experts that could work together with the united nations. we want to help in the integrated mission for police training, and for training connected with justice and the rule of law in order to enhance institution-building. we are also working to build up the ministries of trade and energy. i am ready to join my colleagues from the council and mr solana in a troika and go to the region to support the iraqis as soon as a new government is in place. yesterday, a new international coordination conference involving the americans was announced. that is an excellent idea for creating a stable and prosperous iraq in the future.
i have received six motions for resolutions from six political groups to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda now includes the council and commission statements on human rights (geneva, 14 march to 22 april 2005)
this conversation is over. the debate will be resumed at 3 p.m. we shall now proceed to the vote.
mr president, with regard to the wortmann-kool report, i would like to point out that the new democracy meps voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, mr varvizio, in which we support the compatibility of community law with the marpol convention on liability issues relating to penalties for accidental pollution. we believe that in both territorial and international waters community law should be governed by the same rules as the marpol convention, and this is linked to equal treatment of ships and effective pollution management at world level, because shipping is a global activity and should be governed by international conventions. the regional measures, where they have been applied, have not worked, they are confusing. we also supported amendment no 37, which calls for a system of cooperation between national authorities, since many accidents are caused by a lack of cooperation and a poor exchange of know-how, and for a feasibility study to be carried out on the new measures and policies which the european union intends to implement for the development of maritime transport in the context of effective water management and protection against pollution.
mr president, the people do not need suggestions, recommendations and, even more importantly, they are not under surveillance to choose the governments they want. it is unacceptable that the european union and the european parliament repeatedly intervene in the internal affairs of other countries. in the case of moldova, the hypocrisy about the democratic process really goes beyond the pale. if anything should be denounced, it is the open intervention of the united states of america with the funding of 1.7 million dollars of the organization coality 2005 which supports the so-called opposition to the current government. this is the great problem of foreign interference in the interior of moldova. the united states of america's attitude is provocative, in that it has admitted to this very operation. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on it. you have no interest in democracy or genuine democratic elections. you want to enslave moldova. finally, today is 23 february, the anniversary of the founding of the red army, and we must pay tribute to the millions of red soldiers and officers who were killed during the second world war to crush fascism.
mr president, the liberalization of markets for the benefit of capital and within the wto included the abolition of quotas on textile imports into europe. so businesses and industries either move to countries with cheaper labor costs or close down. in both cases, the big losers are the workers in the sector, who know the way to unemployment. in greece, entire cities have been literally killed. wto analysts estimate that in the coming years china's share will exceed 50% internationally and that the european union will lose some 325,000 jobs. this is a choice by the european union which, although it seems contradictory, is in the interests of european monopolies in order to penetrate the large chinese market in profitable sectors, but also to exploit the lower labour costs. the support for controls, research and innovation, for a more competitive european textile industry, is not helping and does not concern the small businesses that will be eliminated, but the monopoly groups, which will increase their profits. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere speculator, but must be a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. let them join forces with the consistent class movement to change this policy.
mr president, the abolition of all tariff quotas and restrictions on textile imports from 1 january 2005 is a development of enormous economic, social and political importance for the countries of the european union and for my country, greece. this development has already created the first negative consequences in greece, with uncontrolled imports of chinese products affecting not only the textile and clothing sector, but also consumer safety with low-quality and costly products. the wto and oecd experts may see benefits from full liberalisation of trade in textiles and clothing, but european and greek businessmen and workers do not. the production base of the textile and clothing industry is shrinking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. at the same time, unemployment is rising steadily. a typical example is that in december 2004 alone, 12 small and medium-sized enterprises in greece closed, leaving more than 650 workers unemployed. in view of this dramatic development and in view of the wto figures which predict that china will control 50% or more of the world textile market in the next two years, i fear that the european commission is merely monitoring developments. while the united states, turkey and argentina have recently decided to use safeguard measures and to impose quotas on certain categories of chinese products, we are still waiting for the european commission to present guidelines. and that is a question i want to put to the commissioner in the absence of mr mandelson.
acting president of the council. at its meeting on 31 january 2005, the council adopted an action plan providing for measures which are currently being developed. in the action plan, the council invited the commission and the secretary-general and high representative to make appropriate proposals, each in his or her area of competence, on the establishment of a european union rapid reaction capability to deal with future disasters. the secretary-general undertook to submit his proposals to the council as soon as possible and by 31 march 2005 at the latest.
madam president, mr president-in-office, the commissioner for foreign affairs who made this particular proposal was here five minutes ago, facing you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. does the council think that a specific step should be taken, or will it be put on the agenda by referral to a committee, waiting for the next great humanitarian disaster because we have no money?
acting president of the council. with all due respect to greece, no, there is no question of returning this instrument to the greek calendar. it has been clearly stated by the council that proposals in this area must be made by both the commission and the general secretariat, or the secretary-general/high representative. so it was never said that this was not a useful measure. i think the tsunami disaster has shown us that europe needs such an instrument. it is now necessary to see how this instrument can be created and it is true that 31 march 2005 is not very far away. so we'll have proposals for such a system.
madam president, civil protection in the prevention and response to natural or man-made disasters is an objective of the european union. the european constitution makes it a separate area for complementary or supporting action. does the council intend to proceed with the formulation of this policy? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
acting president of the council. the honourable member is quite right: the lisbon strategy - as was clearly stated by the president of the european council when presenting the programme of the luxembourg presidency - is at the top of the priorities of our presidency. the council, in all its relevant formations, is and will remain, in the weeks that still separate us from the european council in march, fully engaged in preparing the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy with a view to the decisions to be taken at the european council. the need to step up efforts to achieve the objectives of the strategy and to achieve substantial and tangible results will be highlighted. we are now faced with the commission's proposal which, i believe, allows us both to better plan the lisbon strategy, to better define the priorities of this strategy and - i stress this in particular - to better organise the governance of the lisbon strategy. as you pointed out in your question, if there was a weakness in the lisbon strategy, it was that there was, admittedly, too much multiplicity of objectives and so-called priorities, but also a weakness in the implementation of the governance of the whole process. it is therefore up to the european council, on the basis of what the commission has submitted to us and in the spirit of the three lisbon pillars - the economic pillar/competitiveness; the link with the social model; sustainable development and environmental protection - to propose a better-organised, more readable strategy, integrating the various processes we already have today. we have the cardiff processes, the processes for sustainable development, the guidelines for employment, the broad guidelines for economic policy and so on. the aim is to improve consistency, visibility and readability throughout the process. this is one of the main tasks of the presidency in order to propose a draft which can be accepted in march next year.
madam president, i put my question before the president of the european commission announced the text on the new impetus for the lisbon strategy. i am of course very pleased that the mid-term review of this strategic plan coincides with the luxembourg presidency. my supplementary question concerns the most effective link between european and national objectives and policies: does the council believe that the new commission proposals will eliminate the existing weaknesses in the implementation of the strategy?
acting president of the council. in my view, the approach presented by the commission, which emphasizes the setting of european objectives followed by the development of national plans, creates more links between the major objectives agreed at european level on the one hand and implementation at national level on the other. it is ultimately on this point that the lisbon strategy has proved to be very weak and ineffective. i think that this idea of national plans could improve governance and when we talk about the national plan, it should be stressed that this proposal takes up the full involvement of the stakeholders in the lisbon process. i believe that this creates a more favourable environment for the success of the strategy.
i am grateful to the president-in-office for his reply. but as you know, the communication from the commission and mr barroso on the objectives for the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy caused great reactions and concerns because he told us that he has three sons and will only take care of the sick one, which is competitiveness. the other two - the environment and cohesion - will be left out. can the council give assurances that cohesion and environmental policies will not be undermined and that the resources to serve these policies will also be secured?
acting president of the council. madam president, the council recalls that at its meeting on 7 january 2005 it stated that aid should go to the most affected regions and to the most deprived people, especially children. as they are particularly vulnerable, they need specific support, in particular through the appropriate un agencies such as unicef. since then, the relevant preparatory bodies of the council have developed an action plan to respond to the tsunami victims and to follow up on the council conclusions. this action plan was examined by the council on monday 31 january 2005. the proposed measures include those directly affecting children, particularly in the areas of health and education - the aim being to get them back to school as soon as possible. proposals are also being considered to address the situation of children who have become orphans or have been separated from their families as a result of the disaster, and to address in particular the problem of trafficking in children. for further information on the relief actions carried out by the union and its member states, the honourable member can turn to the commission and the member states, as many programmes are also national programmes. the council naturally shares the general disapproval of the revelation of cases of ill-treatment, exploitation and disappearance of children in the areas of south-east asia affected by the tsunami disaster. the council condemns such actions and will support all efforts to combat this unacceptable exploitation of the poorest and most vulnerable.
madam president, mr president-in-office, thank you for your reply. i would, however, like to ask you to put more emphasis on the issue of dealing with the abuse and sexual exploitation of children in these areas and i would like to be assured, mr president, that in the action programme currently being drawn up by the council, and in the overall humanitarian aid provided to these countries, there will be a practical commitment by the authorities of these countries to take even more effective measures to deal with such phenomena which, as you said, are shameful and are issues which we must tackle with determination and in cooperation with these countries. i would also like to know whether the action programme is also considering more specific measures in this direction.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jiří maštálk, for his extraordinary commitment and effort in preparing this report on a complex and controversial subject which concerns our greatest asset, the promotion of the safety and health of workers at work. i particularly welcome this report. it was drawn up after the commission adopted its communication on the implementation of framework directive 89/391/eec and its first five individual directives. it thus responds to the commission's wish that this communication should trigger a genuine and wide public debate on how to better promote safety and health at work and strengthen the european framework in order to provide a level playing field for all businesses in an enlarged europe. since 1989, europe has adopted an important set of rules, a minimum set, but not a minimalist one, of rules which establish the responsibilities and obligations of employers and employees. it implements an integrated prevention policy at all levels of the enterprise and covers all sectors of economic activity, whether private or public, and in its framework, information, education and consultation, employee participation are the three main pillars of the system. this legislation, ladies and gentlemen, has had a positive effect. the statistics show that a 30% reduction in fatal accidents at work has been confirmed. that's thousands of lives saved. as well as a 15% decrease in work-related injuries causing disability. this development is part of a long-term perspective, although it is correct to note that the number of occupational accidents is still too high and therefore unacceptable. however, even the best legislation is useless if it is not effectively applied in the workplace. it should be stressed that the attitude of employees and employers as the main participants in preventive action in the enterprise is essential. the commission and parliament agree on the need to raise awareness and promote training and the active participation of workers and employers in the definition of prevention policies at company level, applying the principles laid down in this area by european legislation. the commission also agrees with parliament on the need to develop complementary instruments to legislation to facilitate its application, as well as labour inspections equipped with structures, means and deterrent powers to help bring about the change of attitudes necessary for the correct and equivalent application of legislation in the union. the commission's analysis of the implementation of the framework directive and its first five separate directives, based on a thorough on-the-spot investigation and the results of evaluation work carried out by its services, identifies areas where the application of the directives is lacking and identifies the main problems requiring efforts. the commission welcomes the fact that the european parliament shares the analysis made by the commission and that its report makes proposals to improve the practical application of the legislation. the recommendations set out in the report deserve full support and, together with the results of the evaluation of the community strategy for 2002-06 and the reactions of the member states and the social partners, will form the basis of the next community strategy covering the period 2007-12. i would also like to thank parliament and in particular the members of the committee on employment and social affairs for their continued efforts and continuous support for an effective policy on safety and health at work. today's approval of this report, which contains targeted recommendations for individual actors, is a significant step towards increasing interest and awareness among all actors concerned. the commission is grateful to parliament and wishes to assure it that it will take this recommendation into account when it starts to consider its next strategy on safety and health at work. ladies and gentlemen, a staggering amount of the national economic cost has been reported. yes, national economic costs are entered in the books. pain doesn't enter them, and therefore it's not less important. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your efforts.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing tonight is very important for the well-being of citizens and lies at the heart of the european social model which we all want to protect and improve. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr maštálka, for his initiative in drawing up this report, and i would also like to express our thanks and our satisfaction on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities that the main proposals of the commission have been incorporated into the resolution. it is thus emphasized that, according to the latest data, there is an increase in accidents in areas of female employment. we therefore call on the commission, the member states and the social partners to take a special interest in this issue and to include occupational hazards for women in the applicable indicators for monitoring health and safety at work. and by that we mean the relevant research and studies that are being done, the statistics and the reports of accidents. we also stress the need to combat discrimination still existing in the workplace against women, discrimination linked to motherhood and sexual harassment, which creates psychological problems for women workers. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the community directives on safety and health at work do not cover domestic work and undeclared work by farm workers - who are mainly women - and to reiterate a request from our committee: that the european commission take initiatives in this area.
mr president, commissioner, with the justified momentum that has developed today in favour of research, i personally see the doubling of funding from the 'nonsense', as our ancient ancestors would have said. but in the context of today's debate, i would like to approach the matter in a different way. so i ask you: firstly, is it our strategic choice to make the european economy the most competitive in the world by 2010? secondly, if the answer is yes, i would like to know whether, in order to achieve this objective - and i sincerely believe that it is - it is necessary and sufficient for the european union's economy to become a knowledge-based economy. thirdly, if the answer is yes again, then logically, should we not ask the european research community, business and industry about the means needed to accomplish this mission? in other words, should we not apply the 'bottom up' process in our case, i.e. consulting with the people who produce knowledge and innovation in europe, in order to agree on exactly where and how much we should invest to achieve our objective? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would now like to inform the house, and i would like to welcome it at the same time, that the delegation of the grand turkish national assembly, chaired by its vice-president, professor mr dumanoglu, is in the gallery. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the delegation attended the fifth meeting of the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee yesterday and today.
in writing. we express our full solidarity and support to the workers of the thyssen krupp steelworks in terni, italy, who are fighting for the right to work and defending industrial steel production, against the anti-working class policy of the eu and the company, which is expressed through blackmail and threats of further dismissals. however, we abstained from the joint resolution of the european parliament because: - it integrates the interests of workers into the lisbon strategy, which is an invasion of workers' rights and promotes mass layoffs and unemployment. - it identifies the interests of workers made redundant with the competitiveness of european monopolies and the industrial group in question, and calls for social cohesion, i.e. the abolition of class struggle, in order to abolish mass redundancies. - it calls for more 'corporate social responsibility', fostering dangerous illusions that monopolies can be charitable and pro-people. the situation in the steel industry is the result of capitalist restructuring, market liberalisation, concentration and centralisation of capital. the eu itself and the governments of the member states have encouraged big business in the practices of restructuring, relocation, closing plants and activities, without regard for the social consequences. the right to work, the satisfaction of the modern popular needs passes through the workers' and people's struggle against the eu and anti-worker politics.
in writing. the resolution of the committee on foreign affairs and security expresses the eu's reactionary, aggressive and hostile foreign policy towards the peoples and its imperialist character. it uses human rights and their selective protection as a pretext, legitimizing interventions and even war between countries. it is no coincidence that the long list of countries for which condemnation resolutions are being sought by the un includes countries that are the direct targets of imperialism (cuba, the dprk, iran, belarus, zimbabwe, etc.). it mentions violations in dozens of countries, but is defiantly silent about the human rights of the hundreds of thousands of iraqis, afghans, palestinians, etc. murdered by imperialist wars and interventions. the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty, but to accept the death penalty. it hypocritically notes the protection of fundamental freedoms which it crushes with so-called anti-terrorism and other laws criminalizing social struggles. references to poverty, hunger, environmental degradation, health, education, etc. are a challenge to the popular strata and the millions of people in the third world, who are deprived of basic human rights due to (temporary) imperialist and capitalist domination. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. the brutal reality that the workers and peoples are experiencing is the result of the imperialist policy of wars, the policies of the imf and the world bank, the exploitation of the multinationals, the predatory free trade agreements. the eu and european monopolies are partly responsible for the situation. none of the resolutions calls into question the unjust international economic order or its causes. the attack on workers' rights, the widespread privatisations of health and education, policies implemented by the conservative and social democratic governments, are all silenced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the 'universal' problems are deliberately presented in order to conceal the class character of the policies implemented in favour of capital. the theory of social consensus and social partnership is cultivated in both resolutions with the aim of driving the workers' movement and other movements into subjugation, into submission to capitalist barbarity. the people's party-liberal resolution proposes solutions - free market recipes, wto agreements and g7 decisions - and the other, a more democratic (!!) form of world governance, which cannot exist within the domination of the imperialist class. in conclusion, an attempt is being made to legitimize the reactionary orientations of davos under the guise of the world social forum, with the slogan: "another world is not possible, only the capitalist one". the kke votes against both resolutions.
mr cashman, i have to tell you that indeed the matter has been considered and it has been considered that paragraph 89 is acceptable.
yes, of course. the way the paragraph was written, it was acceptable.
this is what they told me. we just had the ruling before the voting.
mr president, the subject of lebanon is on the agenda this week. the withdrawal of syrian occupation forces from lebanon: security council decision. we here in civilized europe applaud it, we applaud it, and there is no one among us who does not want the occupying army to leave lebanon. but the same security council resolution applies to the turkish occupation army in cyprus. is there no sensitivity to this? we cannot claim that there are two measures and two weights: we in the european parliament must say that what is true of the syrian army - which must leave lebanon - must also be true of the turkish army, which must leave cyprus. it is the same decision of the same council: the security council. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in cyprus and the turkish cypriot authorities have also expressed their views on the situation in lebanon. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i take it for granted that the european investment bank plays a major role in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy as one of the european union's main financial institutions. in this context, i welcome the european bank's efforts to steer european union investment towards the objectives of the lisbon strategy. secondly, i would like to stress the need to maintain a balance in the financing of the different sectors of the european economy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i therefore welcome the increase in loans to small businesses. i think it is important to further expand lending in the social economy and local services sector, and to reduce the high administrative burden. i support the bank's efforts so far to help finance tangible and intangible investment in new technologies. i believe that the financing of infrastructure investment, and particularly the financing of transeuropean networks, should be stepped up. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. in conclusion, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr lipietz, for his excellent report.
member of the commission. mr president, i see from the discussion in parliament that there is broad consensus on the scope and spirit of this regulation. it is a very important piece of legislation which i hope will be adopted. this crucial piece of legislation on conditions for access to natural gas transmission networks is needed for the internal market to function. as regards access to storage facilities, i would again like to draw to your attention that we will soon have a voluntary agreement on guidelines for non-discriminatory access conditions to storage facilities, and if necessary further action will be taken. mr caspary touched on some important issues. this regulation represents one of the steps needed to create the right conditions for the internal market in energy. the commission is doing a lot in this respect. we are trying to diversify sources and this will definitely make for changes as regards price policies. by the end of this year the commission will produce a report analysing the situation in the energy market, which will be prepared in conjunction with the competition authorities. this will enable us to address the questions you have raised. i would again like to stress that the major progress made on this regulation can be attributed to the way in which it was prepared. the madrid forum has proved to be extremely successful, which is why access to storage should be handled in the same way. i wish to thank parliament and the rapporteur for the good work done in preparing this piece of legislation on the energy market.
mr president, given the significant benefits of renewable energy sources for the environment, public health, the quality of life of citizens, the question to which neither the commission nor the european parliament has given an effective answer is how we can further promote the development of renewable energy sources so that citizens can taste their benefits. the commission's recent report, which shows a significant delay in meeting the objectives set by directive 2001/77, is a given. so we need to do more. i personally believe that this effort needs to be based on three pillars. the first is to create a more favourable policy environment for the promotion of renewable energy sources. the role of governments is crucial here, as the large multinational energy companies continue to invest primarily in oil and it is not easy to abandon this unilateral approach. so we need a web of incentives from governments to encourage alternative energy investments and to create profitable markets for alternative energy sources. the second pillar is to create an appropriate legal framework to support renewable sources: the commission's proposal is to protect these markets from the encroachments of an energy system which was built - with its legal foundations - at a time when renewable energy was almost unknown. the third and most important aspect, however, and this is where the question i have put to the european commission with my colleagues is focused, is the rapid growth of public and private investment in research to develop better and cheaper technologies related to renewable sources. the development of renewable energy sources is crucially dependent on research into the development of new technologies and now is the opportunity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources, but also of the community's own resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i look forward to the commission's reply and, above all, to the steps it will take.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to place the issue of renewable energy sources in the context of the lisbon strategy and the kyoto protocol to combat climate change. the application of the protocol has two advantages and one disadvantage. the advantages: (a) protection of the environment and human health, and (b) pressure for technological innovation. disadvantage: until the innovation becomes marketable, the issue of the negative impact on industry remains, such as the decrease in exports from 3.8% to 5.1%. renewable energy sources can certainly contribute to the security of europe's energy supply, but they can also contribute to the lisbon strategy through technological development, technology exports, job creation and environmental protection. but, commissioner, it is clear that there is a gap between the successful demonstration of innovative technologies and their effective penetration of the market, and i think it is a matter of closing that gap as quickly as possible. what steps does the commissioner intend to take in this direction, apart from promoting - or even making possible - voluntary agreements with the energy industry?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issues we are discussing today are not new or new to us. the european parliament is rich in debates and resolutions on women's participation in economic and public life, and on the particular problems and discrimination they face in their lives. it is particularly important to discuss them again today, 8 march, international women's day, because we are all more aware that these problems are ancient and timeless and remain unsolved and topical. they are also global in nature, affecting all societies and all countries. this year's 8 march also marks the 10th anniversary of the beijing conference and the adoption of the platform, which concerns a strategy to address these problems. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. as europeans, we are particularly sensitive to this global effort, because our historical experience convinces us that addressing women's problems and achieving real equality are necessary conditions for achieving development, quality democracy and peace. what i would like to stress today is that we must remain true to the global nature of this platform, namely the monitoring of all 12 critical areas which interact with each other: the commission's proposals for the future of the european union are based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the commission's proposals for the future of the union are based on the principle of subsidiarity. but at the same time we must be aware of the developments taking place around us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of women into the labour market, and has recently launched a new programme for the promotion of equal opportunities for women.
the european union, mr president, living under the lisbon strategy, has set itself high targets for increasing the employment rate of women and improving their position in society, a policy which must be implemented immediately. the european union's priority, however, is to help third countries - the developing countries - to reach a level where women are treated with dignity. development assistance and development cooperation should be evaluated and based on issues such as: first, the guarantee of women's rights as the core of human rights in a country. secondly, the promotion of specific economic and social incentives for integration into the labour market, the prevention through effective action of the degradation of women's lives, the elimination of violence - as has been the case in recent days in turkey - the participation of women in political parties, in the state, in local government. mr president, the pursuit of justice, of wider education, of culture, of equality are everyday acts and are not the sole object of world day.
the agenda provides for voting time. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
as announced yesterday, i have received from the council a corrective to the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directives with a view to establishing a new organisational structure for the committees responsible for financial services. in a letter today, the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs announced that the committee was in favour of adopting the corrective.
the time for voting is over. we shall now proceed to the explanations of vote.
in writing. the community air traffic controller (atc) licence directive completes the puzzle of capitalist restructuring in aviation, to implement the 'single european sky', within the framework of the general anti-people policy of the european union, by striking at the wage and social rights of workers, ensuring huge profits for capital and painful effects on flight safety and the sovereign rights of countries. the directive promotes the separation of 'air safety service providers' from 'national public safety supervisory authorities' and gives eu monopolies in the aviation sector control of european airspace. the investigation of accidents, the airworthiness of aircraft and companies, the award of air traffic controller diplomas and licences have already been delegated to monopoly business groups. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the safety of the air transport sector. at the same time we are strengthening the workers' struggle for public transportation with upgraded and cheap services, for the service of the people's needs, with stable work and the satisfaction of the modern needs of the workers.
in writing. the explanatory report on the social situation in the eu documents, with documented evidence, the effect of the eu's anti-people policy and free competition by increasing poverty, unemployment, insecurity and maximising the profitability of capital. the measures proposed under the lisbon strategy on 'minimum living wage', 'state protection schemes', 'lifelong training' and the extension of parttime work, in a period of capitalist restructuring, intense competition and the commercialisation of health and welfare services, are intended to curb extreme expressions of workers' poverty and to be used to intensify the degree of exploitation of the working class and the popular strata. the support for this report by the majority of the conservative forces in the ep plenary with anti-working-class and reactionary amendments shows the negative correlation of forces that exists in the ep between popular rights and demands. the kke group, in the face of these developments, is joining the workers' struggle to overturn the anti-people policy of the eu and its institutions, in order to meet the modern needs of the working people's family.
we have reached the end of the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the three resolutions, which are identical, from three very different ideological groups, confirm the common concern about the problem of nuclear weapons, but at the same time they hide a strange hypocritical background. should iran and north korea be persuaded to stop researching and producing nuclear weapons? yes, you should. but is it right that we should not be concerned about nuclear weapons in israel, pakistan, india and even the permanent members of the security council? so there are good and bad nuclear weapons? is it democratic and fair to accept first-rate countries that can possess nuclear weapons but to control second-rate countries that want to have them? is it a coincidence that the countries that are being cut off from nuclear weapons, with america at the forefront, are the same countries that are not participating in the hague criminal court and those countries that are snubbing the kyoto agreements on the environment? it is those countries which feel themselves to be the leaders of all the rest and which try, by compulsion rather than by reason, to impose their interests. is it fair that we 25 countries with a common currency, a common central bank, a common agricultural policy should not have the same right to nuclear weapons, but only two of the 25 should have the right to nuclear weapons? the nuclear weapons of iran and north korea are a problem, but the new cold war between russia and the united states, in which we are also involved, is a greater problem. we dare send inspectors to the warehouses of israel and china? we do not dare because we cannot enforce it, mr president. we therefore reject ourselves as the bearers of independence and justice. can someone tell us where the iraqi nuclear weapons are? they didn't find them or they didn't exist. but it was the alibi for a brutal invasion.
mr president, listening to most of the speakers, i had the impression that i was hearing mrs condoleezza rice. and reading most of the resolutions, i thought they were white house announcements. the fact is that lebanon, after the war and the occupation of iraq by the americans, has become the field of application of the broader middle east plan announced by the united states, adopted by nato and the european union. and with this planning, israel's role is strengthened, the palestinians' struggle for an independent and free state is targeted and pressure is put on syria and iran. you don't want them to be independent. you want them to be independent when you control them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. why is he withdrawn now? and what are you looking for? you don't know that it was the result of an agreement to stop the civil war in lebanon? and now there are efforts to create the conditions for a new military intervention in the region to strike the people as a whole. the assassination of the former prime minister of lebanon, acts as a large-scale provocation with multiple targets. we believe that the peoples and political forces of the region must solve their own problems and do not need protectors. and finally, we ask you: how much hypocrisy is there? the 40 000 occupying troops in cyprus, why don't you ask - now, immediately, tomorrow - and press them to leave the island? why two meters and two scales? the european union and the united states of america have a different objective.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, first of all, the assassination of former prime minister hariri is an act which must be condemned at all times. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is in the interests of the community that the commission should take this initiative. the second point i want to make is the forthcoming elections, following the resignation of the government in lebanon, and i would say that i was very pleased to hear commissioner michel speak about what the european commission intends to do to ensure that the elections are held properly. i will insist - as other colleagues have done - on the issue of the sending of observers from the european parliament. the third point concerns certain conditions for peace and democracy in lebanon: the first is the safeguarding and protection of the rights of minorities and those procedures which will shield their peaceful coexistence. the second is to deal clearly and effectively with the activities of hezbollah, which, while centred in lebanon, extend beyond the borders of lebanon throughout the middle east and endanger peace. and thirdly, as regards the withdrawal of syrian troops, i say yes, provided that syria officially announces a timetable, especially after the recent statements by president assad. i accept the concept of a timetable, i say this as a greek who is very sensitive to the issues of troop withdrawal, because we have also made a corresponding request for the withdrawal of turkish troops from northern cyprus, and i believe that the international community, which is now urging syria to withdraw its troops from lebanon, should do the same with turkey and with any other countries that have occupying troops in other countries. finally, in view of the very positive winds blowing in the middle east, i would like to stress the need for the european union to be present there, not only economically but also politically. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the developments in lebanon must be seen in the context of the wider regional balance and stability. the implementation of resolution 1559 on the withdrawal of syrian forces from lebanese territory is the first, but not the only, potential element of this comprehensive approach. the european union must also take the initiative to restart the peace process between israel and syria. the european union has a strategic responsibility to take a concrete initiative within the quartet, either by drawing up a parallel roadmap or by extending the existing one to include the israeli-syrian aspect of the peace process. the council of ministers and the commission should speed up the procedures for completing the action plan for lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood strategy. the european union must also resist the attempt to link the signing of the association agreement with syria with the earlier completion of the withdrawal of the syrian army. we have an interest, mr president, in keeping the doors open to syria if we are to contribute to the democratization of the country and to stability in the region. the deployment of syrian forces, as agreed, is a positive first step. our aim is to respect international law and to implement resolution 1559. but this objective must not be selective. it should bind all countries in the region, including israel. the european union is not a political union, but a political union.
the proposal for a directive on services is an infamous proposal. it has caused great reactions and concern both in the european parliament and in many member states and, above all, among the citizens because it promotes a wild social dumping. if you do not want to talk about social dumping, commissioner, then withdraw the proposal which is causing it. withdraw the country of origin's dangerous authority, completely exclude sensitive sectors like health and public services. the commissioner, mr mccreevy, take back the bolkenstein proposal and bring in a proposal of your own, a mccreevy proposal, do not limit yourself to the role of the minor corrector of the bolkenstein proposal. in your statements on 3 march at the conference of presidents, you were bolder and clearer. after you spoke to mr barroso, you put a lot of water in your wine. i am waiting for your proposal at the end, not the little brother of the bolkenstein proposal.
mr president, commissioner, since these shortcomings in customs cooperation with china have been identified, since there is this massive importation of manufactured goods, why has the commission and, by extension, the european union not taken measures to suspend the abolition of quotas for textile products? and why does it not trigger the safeguard clause provided for in the protocol on china's accession to the world trade organization?
member of the commission. as the honourable member has rightly pointed out, the united states has threatened to withdraw as of 1 march 2005 tariff concessions on a number of eu products, including canned peaches, as a reaction to the eu’s decision to modify its wto schedule in respect of husked and milled rice. the united states would have such a right if the eu’s modification did not maintain a general level of reciprocal and mutually acceptable advantages and concessions no less favourable to trade than prior to the modification pursuant to article 28 of the 1994 gatt agreement. however, thanks to intense negotiation between the two parties, an agreement has been reached with the result that the united states has not applied its retaliation list. so the issue has been resolved.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. it is well known, but when my question was put, the united states threatened to impose these measures on this industry and, therefore, on peach growers in european countries.
mr president, the harmonious integration of the developing countries into the multilateral trading system is, rightly, a stated objective of the doha development agenda. no one can deny the role of international trade as a necessary factor in economic growth and poverty reduction. this is even more so when development is linked to other important components such as environmental protection, social responsibility and good governance. the system of generalised preferences is a very useful aid tool for developing countries. it is the most generous instrument, but its long period of application through renewals leads to the easy conclusion that it must be focused on countries that really need it and on essentially competitive products. with regard to sensitive products for the european union, such as sugar, tariff and quantitative disarmament on the basis of the timetable proposed by the commission involves two risks. the first risk is the massive import of sugar into the european market after 2009. this will affect sugar beet growers and non-competitive sugar industries in europe. the second danger is that the liberalization of imports under the 'everything but arms' initiative, combined with the strict proposal for a revision of the sugar cmo, is not expected to favour the least developed countries which need a longer transitional period, nor the acp countries, but oligopolistic export interests. it is therefore necessary to make provision for the suspension of duties subject to longer time limits and to smaller percentages, which i hope will be fixed during the reform of the cmo for sugar. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the ombudsman, directly linked to the committee on petitions, in order to meet the requirements of the situation, but also the obligations of the european parliament towards the citizen and the right of the latter to ask the large family of the european union for assistance and protection, is a burden of responsibility. it is up to us to ensure that citizens do not lose confidence in the institutions that we support and try to implement in most of them. the committee on petitions, as the rapporteur has so well described its work and its problems, highlights the need for greater attention, respect and support for the services within its function, both during the pre-processing and the processing of the petitions, which are nevertheless important. citizens often complain about delays. the bureaucracy is evident in many member states which refuse or are unable to respond to the commission's requests to speed up the procedures for sending the data with which the commission will draw its conclusions and judge accordingly. we're letting the citizen down. we are thus leading him to devalue the institutions and functions of parliament. we're taking him away from knowledge. he loses his trust and, over time, turns his back on us. that's not our role. the rapporteur proposes, denounces, clearly records the experiences of a year. i believe that the committee on petitions and its cooperation with the ombudsman and his services should be further intensified, as the first indications are that there is an increase in referrals of 40% compared to last year. the quality of information to citizens needs to be improved and this will be achieved through cooperation between the competent european institutions, i.e. between the european parliament, the committee on petitions, the ombudsman, and the respective citizens' advocates in the member states. the credibility of the committee on petitions depends on the respect we show for the 450 million citizens who come to us with the awareness that procedures and assessments, decisions and judgments are above interests and individual attitudes. we are speaking very highly of you, commissioner, and i would like to ask you a question: how do you think the member states are ensuring that citizens are entitled to their rights after the commission's decision?
i should like to welcome to parliament mr hrusovsky, president of the national council of the slovak republic, who is now present in the distinguished visitors’ gallery. (applause)his visit demonstrates the great value that parliament attaches to dialogue with national parliaments. i wish mr hrusovsky and his delegation an enjoyable and successful visit.
the agenda for the debate on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy is to continue.
madam president, growth is not a zero-sum game. we don't need to break up our societies and destroy the environment to achieve high development goals. in march 2000, we decided in lisbon to maximise europe's competitiveness within the constraints of maintaining cohesion and protecting the environment. but what we then called the lisbon strategy described everything we wanted, not how we were going to get it. today we worked out our hierarchies. competitiveness is no longer a matter of pious wishes. it's a strategy of prioritizing. thus, the mid-term review sums up the lisbon strategy in a simple equation: focus on research and technology programmes + support for small and medium-sized enterprises + construction of critical infrastructure + upgrading human resources + promoting structural change = sustainable long-term growth or sustainable development. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. and let us remember: we cannot achieve more growth with less money, just as we cannot achieve fiscal stabilisation with less growth.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the resolution on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, with the votes of the epp, the social democrats, the liberals and other conservative political forces, who put aside any minor differences and united behind the strategic objective of the lisbon treaty. in the name of the competitiveness of the eu economy (i.e. its monopolies) an unprecedented attack has been launched against the labour and social rights of the popular strata. it is a violent redistribution of labour income to the benefit of capital through reductions in the wages of workers and those who are absent from work, the abolition of welfare benefits and the downgrading of benefits, privatisations, etc. the so-called 'active forms of employment' are intended to extend flexible forms of work and to lengthen the working age, i.e. to create a cheap and flexible labour force which will be easy prey for the unrewarding exploitation of monopolies. the european parliament's kke group voted against the resolution, which accepts the all-out attack on the working class and other popular strata, and demonstrates the eu's class orientation. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the lisbon strategy to include the new member states. the only way out is organized resistance, disobedience and struggle by the majority of the popular strata of the eu against the anti-working class strategy of lisbon.
mr president, the lisbon mid-term review does not set new objectives but is repositioning itself to be more competitive than the united states. it requires closer cooperation and coordination between governments and their supervision to overcome delays caused by their contradictions. the council of ministers is therefore preparing a new round of rhetoric against the people's income and other popular gains. this is guaranteed by the balance sheet of the first five years of lisbon's implementation, with the increase in poverty, unemployment, inequality, uncertainty for the workers and more wealth for the oligarchy. the heads of the member states will decide to proceed more aggressively and with greater speed towards further flexibility of labour relations, cuts in labour income and popular conquests, the new social security system, full market liberalisation and the generalization of privatisations. at the same time, they will take decisions that will accelerate the political and military presence of the european union in more countries and seal the common war front against the peoples of the united states and the european union. these are measures which reduce social and labour rights in order to increase the profitability of european capital. the european union and its political parties are preparing for this working age. the workers are called upon to make sacrifices for the deterioration of their lives. but there are also sacrifices that have a better life in view: the organized struggle against the barbarism and exploitation of the european union and its governments.
president of the council. i fully share this analysis and believe that the prime minister's decision to go to the hague is a wise one and shows good political maturity. it is also a matter of conveying the right message to the albanian inhabitants of kosovo, that the process is normal and that now it is time to calm down. i believe that if this happens, if people remain calm, a new perspective will open up for kosovo.
madam president, i would like to ask the president what the council intends to do to protect minorities, given that the serbs and roma who were forcibly expelled have not returned to their homes. the council also asked how it believes that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the federal republic of serbia and montenegro, as expressly stated in un resolution 1244, which, as you said, the council continues to support, will be protected in the forthcoming negotiations.
president of the council. the prospects for peace in the middle east, which have improved markedly, remain fragile and require the greatest possible care to prevent them from being eroded. the common position of the united states and the european union on this matter, reaffirmed at the meeting of the heads of state or government with the president of the united states on 22 february in brussels, is a source of satisfaction in this respect. the european union and the united states share the same positions on the middle east peace process and the need for full implementation of un security council resolution 1559. the resolution was initiated by a member state of the european union together with the united states. it called for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from lebanon, the disarmament and dissolution of all militias and the holding of the next parliamentary elections in lebanon in a free and fair process free of external interference. the council strongly condemned the attack which took the life of the former president of the lebanese council of ministers, rafic hariri. i think we have talked a lot about this in the last few days - yesterday and in the previous session. responsibilities for this attack have not yet been established. the international community and the council have called for an international inquiry to shed light on the circumstances and the responsibilities. the council called on the lebanese authorities to cooperate fully with the investigation teams, including those of the united nations, to this end. the council also called on all countries in the region to comply with their international obligations, in particular in the fight against terrorism. the un secretary-general has announced that he will present a report in the coming weeks on the implementation of the resolution, on the basis of which the next steps will be decided in the security council. this will be done in close coordination between the individual members of the security council, as well as between the member states of the european union which are members of the security council and the other member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has been able to provide the united states with a clear and comprehensive response to the situation in the region, and i am sure that the council will be able to provide the united states with a clear and comprehensive response to the situation in the region.
president of the council. president bush's visit to brussels, so soon after the beginning of his second term, is an important political signal. the american president sent a double message, first that the time for diplomacy has come, and second that europe, and the european union in particular, is seen as an important partner. while the change in administration may seem sudden, the change in tone actually began several months ago. it was very noticeable at the last very successful summit in ireland. but it was after the november elections that the offer of a new partnership with europe and, more specifically, with the union was explicitly formulated. such a revival is obviously in the european interest, especially if it is done in a spirit of true partnership and greater equality. none of the major geostrategic issues of our time are the subject of any real disagreement. only the social issues and the relative weight of multilateralism in relation to national sovereignty are the subject of dissonant approaches. on the crucial issues currently occupying the international scene, there is a very broad convergence of views between the united states and the union. this is obviously true of the middle east peace process, it is true now of the stabilization of iraq. the two main objectives are agreed on in relation to iran. iran must not develop nuclear weapons and must actively contribute to the fight against terrorism. the united states is in close contact with the european union to find a peaceful solution to these problems. i have already spoken about lebanon and syria a moment ago. the environment is not a problem without problems, but president bush has acknowledged the serious problem of climate change. he expressed the wish to work with the european union to provide solutions, particularly in the field of research and technology and to develop clean technologies while integrating emerging powers such as india and china. so, without wishing to paint an idyllic picture - we are far from it - of our relations, and without ignoring the subjects on which it will be the duty of the union to take charge again, it seems nevertheless possible to consider that this summit has made it possible to highlight better the important points of convergence which structure the transatlantic dialogue.
madam president, mr president, thank you for your reply and, in addition, i would like to ask you whether a programme of contacts and cooperation between the european union and the united states has been decided to give a more concrete follow-up to this good atmosphere and the basis for cooperation which, as you have told us, was cultivated by president bush's recent visit to brussels.
president of the council. madam president, the council would ask the honourable member to refer to the statement on the same subject presented at the last plenary session in february in strasbourg. in this connection, it reminded the honourable member that it appreciated and shared the concern expressed by the honourable member for the establishment of cooperation in the field of civil protection in the mediterranean, in particular through the possible creation of a mediterranean early warning system in the context of the barcelona process. it also welcomed the fact that this issue was being discussed at the first session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in cairo from 12 to 15 march 2005. the council notes that, as regards the proposal submitted by the author of this question with a view to addressing the dangers threatening the mediterranean area, an ad hoc group on partnership measures, mandated by the senior officials responsible for the political and security chapter of the barcelona process, considered these issues on 9 february 2005. it also discussed maritime security in the region and civil protection, including through the preparation of a mandate for the development of tsunami assistance plans under the existing euro-mediterranean interim programme. in this connection, a seminar, scheduled for marseille in june 2005, will have the aim of bringing the different mechanisms together and should focus on prevention in the mediterranean and the atlantic, operational organisation in conjunction with other fora such as the 5+5 or the euro-mediterranean forum, a specific assistance plan for the mediterranean and an alert centre. the possibility of organising joint practical exercises between the voluntary member states in october 2005 will also be examined. the luxembourg presidency attaches great importance to this initiative, which it has launched and in which it has participated.
madam president, mr president-in-office, thank you very much for your answer, which is satisfactory. i would like to remind you, however, that the early warning system is of great importance because today 70 million people live on the shores of the mediterranean, not to mention tourists, so that the catastrophe that occurred in south-east asia does not happen again. in addition, we have many fires, many earthquakes and other natural disasters. so what i would like to hear from you, apart from what you have said, which was very satisfactory, is whether we are really prepared to allocate the amount that will be needed, because that amount will be much larger than what we already have for the bridge programme, or the amount that has been budgeted for the early warning system of around 12 million euros. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs locatelli for both her careful work and her truly exemplary cooperation with all parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. in particular, we all know that we live in an era of uncertainty and increasingly massive risks, especially environmental ones. the recent devastating tsunami in southeast asia should have convinced even the most skeptical of us that it is urgent and imperative that our continent be fortified against such devastating natural phenomena. scientists who study these phenomena come from many different disciplines: seismologists, geologists, oceanographers, forestry experts, and others. i believe it is very important for the safety and well-being of european citizens that a strong impetus be given to these areas of research which indeed seem to be converging more and more into a risk and crisis management model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the amendment tabled by the european people's party is as follows: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in fact, both the commission communication on the lisbon mid-term review and the resolution we adopted today stress the importance of eco-innovation for sustainable development in europe. this means that environmental technologies and high environmental standards will be given a prominent place in the revised lisbon strategy. the amendment we are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, does not simply list another thematic priority but aims to explicitly mention a research area which is part of the logic of the revised lisbon strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the commission's proposal for the new sugar regulation, and the commissioner's statements today, are essentially part of the cap review - even if she does not admit it - and, of course, of the reduction in agricultural expenditure. the proposed reductions in quotas and prices by 33%, together with the abolition of intervention and its price, will cause a disaster of unemployment among small and mediumsized farmers and sugar factory workers. the drastic reduction in prices and the reduction in quotas will shrink the incomes of beef producers and force them to abandon farming with no alternative to survival other than unemployment. at the same time, unsustainable sugar factories - and there are many - will be closed down and entire regions will be desertified, both in northern greece and calais in france, but also in other countries. in greece, the closure of factories is linked to the destruction of towns, which are border areas. however, imports will increase. but imported sugar will be cheaper for the industries that use it as a raw material. but not for consumers who have never paid less for a product, even if the price has dropped. the beet growers in the countries with which the european union has preferential agreements will also be harmed, since they will be importing sugar at lower prices. it is therefore hypocritical to think that poor countries will be favoured. the real reason for these changes is the drastic reduction of agricultural appropriations in the budget, in order to use them for other repressive and reactionary policies and to favour the export of products of the euro-industrial monopolies to brazil, india and elsewhere, sacrificing and condemning beet growers and workers in the sector who will follow the armies of the unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the new regulation. they are not a solution. the solution is the coordinated struggle of farmers and workers to change this anti-peasant and anti-people policy.
mr president, commissioner, mrs fischer boel, the sugar market can be seen as the 'last of the mohicans' of products whose status has not been revised in recent years and which have not yet been integrated into the philosophy of the new common agricultural policy. but where should the commission's legislative proposals go? first, they should ensure a balanced treatment of all sugar-producing regions. secondly, to integrate the new measures into the philosophy of the revised cap. thirdly, to express the european union's international solidarity with the developing countries. in view of the above, i consider the following to be particularly negative points in the commission's communication: first, the inadequate compensation of beet growers' incomes for the reduction in support for products: in the case of cereals and beef, the compensatory amounts cover 90% of the reductions in direct payments, while in the case of sugar they cover only 60%. secondly, the system of transfer of quotas between member states proposed by the european commission leads to the concentration of production in certain regions only. thirdly, the external aspects of the regime require special care. in particular, the commitments in the sugar sector must not exceed what is strictly necessary within the wto. the economic and social impact on the least developed countries must also be addressed with sensitivity and effectiveness, based on the developing countries' own choices. in conclusion, mr president, i think it should be clarified and maintained that the quotas belong to the sugar beet producers and that compensation to producers in third countries cannot be financed by the rural social fund.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the agricultural products it produces, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals it has put forward. it is a framework guaranteeing the protection of public health and a new way of ensuring the competitiveness of agriculture. mr president, i would like to stress two issues which are important for the further development and promotion of organic products as a dynamic sector in the years ahead. first, when planning the implementation of the revised common agricultural policy at national level, member states should support young farmers to become active in organic production, but also give entitlements from their national reserve to promote organic farming in designated areas. the second issue - and it is related to the first - is the problem of the coexistence of organic farming with genetically modified products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission and certain states must understand this and reject genetically modified products, because the effects on our health are more dangerous than those of mad cows. the european union cannot pretend, mr president, to promote crops that respect public health and the environment on the one hand and allow products such as genetically modified organisms on the other. it is time to decide in good faith for the citizens of europe.
in writing. the resolution on nuclear weapons, although describing the situation, focuses unilaterally on the problem of non-proliferation rather than on their existence and use. only the united states used nuclear weapons, committing a great crime against humanity in hiroshima and nagasaki. depleted uranium was also used by nato forces in the wars in iraq, yugoslavia and afghanistan with disastrous consequences. these matters are not covered. the concern for non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is hypocritical when it is not linked to the demand for immediate concrete action to destroy them, starting with the european nuclear powers (france, britain) and not clearly demanding the removal of american nuclear weapons from europe. in this respect, given the current situation and the fact that the united states has reversed its commitment not to use nuclear weapons and to strike first, the reference to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons distracts people from the real dangers posed by imperialist nuclear powers. we are in favour of general nuclear disarmament and therefore abstain from voting.
mr president, i would like to inform you that in thessaloniki a project has been approved and is being implemented, with european union funding, for the construction and equipping of a sports and cultural centre with increased accessibility for people with disabilities, by the non-profit-making urban development company centre for adapted sports culture 2000, with the participation of the greek ministry of culture and the municipality of thermaikos. however, the greek state and the body responsible for the construction, the prefecture of thessaloniki, suddenly and unjustifiably stopped its completion, refusing to continue to pay the necessary funds allocated to them. despite the fact that all legal and foreseen procedures have been followed by the parties involved, the greek state, as one of the implementing bodies, is jeopardising the overall course of the project, depriving athletes with disabilities, as well as the rest of the population, of access, participation and contribution to the cultural and sports product produced. i would like to stress that no bureaucracy can be justified in ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, in june 1995 the turkish national assembly adopted a resolution authorizing the turkish government to take all necessary measures, including military ones, against greece in the event that greece, in exercising its sovereign right, extended territorial waters up to 12 nautical miles, as provided for in the international convention on the law of the sea. a few days ago, the president of the turkish national assembly proposed the lifting of the casus belli. however, a few hours later both the turkish prime minister and the foreign minister brought him back into the fold. i believe that as president of the european parliament, and with your known sensitivity, you should immediately take the initiative and send a letter to the president of the turkish national assembly and to the political parties to end this historic anachronism for a country which wants to join the european union and for which the european parliament adopted a positive resolution in december 2004. we have every interest, mr president, in enhancing the credibility, visibility and effectiveness of the european parliament.
mr president, the very strong euro is creating enormous problems in the less economically developed countries of europe. we have a problem with competitiveness. non-branded products are not sold. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. there is a huge problem with the very strong euro. it is not possible that my country, all of a sudden, can cover this deficit when the factories are closed, when the factories are moved out of greece, because they cannot cope with the costs of the very strong euro. we don't sell our products! we have no tourism! no one is going to tour a mediterranean country with such a strong currency. they're going to the other side. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency, and that the european parliament is not used as a currency. we must anticipate and anticipate so that the peoples of europe can live at a tolerable level and not at a depressing level, where they are led by the powerful euro.
president of the council. mr president, first of all, let me thank you for giving the council the opportunity to take stock of the progress made in 2004 in developing the area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to thank in particular mr cavada, mr alvaro, mrs buitenweg, mr reul and mrs roure for the questions they have asked. they concern the future and the functioning of this area of freedom, security and justice, which - as you have just pointed out - made considerable progress in 2004. 2004 is the year of the constitutional treaty with significant progress in building a safer and therefore freer europe; 2004 is the year of the adoption of the hague programme on the area of freedom, security and justice, a concrete catalogue of measures to be implemented; in 2004, more than 100 texts on the area of freedom were adopted. what progress for one of the biggest projects in the deepening of europe after its enlargement, which also took place in 2004! yes, 2004, it is the constitutional treaty that opens up new prospects for citizens and for the european parliament, as evidenced by the questions asked by mr cavada. by strengthening judicial and police cooperation, extending co-decision and qualified majority voting - an absolute necessity in a democratic europe of 25 member states - and laying the foundations for a genuinely common asylum and immigration policy, europe will bring real added value to our citizens in terms of security, justice and freedom. faced with the challenges of immigration, organised crime and international terrorism, no member state can cope alone. we need more europe. a yes to the european constitution will be a yes to a safer and therefore freer europe. a no to the european constitution means that we will maintain national barriers for our police and magistrates, while criminals profit from the absence of borders. this is a reality we must not accept. mr cavada is right to point out that the constitutional treaty opens up many new perspectives for cooperation and codecision between our institutions. as i understand it, many of the questions are intended to anticipate the application of the provisions of the constitutional treaty. in a community of law, such as the european union, the council will conduct its work in accordance with the rules laid down by the only treaties currently in force. the council will not pre-empt the constitutional treaty in respect of the important decisions to be taken in the coming months by our national parliaments and our citizens. this does not, of course, prevent close cooperation and excellent understanding between parliament and the council, nor a capacity to listen and a strengthened exchange of information between our two institutions where the treaties allow it. thus, already in 2004, the council's activities in the field of justice and home affairs made great progress, thanks in particular to the excellent work of the dutch and irish presidencies. i want to see this as proof that the council has adopted an important act in the institutional field - you referred to it - in that it has made the codecision procedure applicable in areas such as external border controls and the fight against illegal immigration. it's a first step, and it's an important one. i also want to see the continuation of the implementation of an area of freedom, security and justice extended to 25 member states. the council adopted nine regulations, seven directives and more than thirty decisions or framework decisions. that's a lot! finally, the european council adopted the hague programme to strengthen the three pillars - freedom, security and justice - an excellent and particularly pragmatic programme. the council has asked the commission to present in 2005 an action plan which will give substance to the objectives and priorities of the hague programme, objectives which you rightly call for. we will discuss this again this week at the jha council, and at the june council. in the field of asylum, the council adopted a directive on minimum standards for the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons to qualify for refugee status or for the status of person in need of international protection. in order to ensure greater solidarity between member states, we have set up a european refugee fund to support the efforts of member states in this field. other measures are still to be adopted in this area, including the proposal for a directive on the procedure for granting and withdrawing refugee status. the council also paid particular attention to immigration-related aspects by defining measures in the areas of admission, in particular the successful integration of immigrants, which is an important aspect of the management of legal immigration, and in the fight against illegal immigration. as regards admission, i would like to point out that the council has adopted the directive on residence permits for thirdcountry nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings. in addition, the council established the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states. this agency will be operational from 1 may 2005. the luxembourg presidency is working to find a permanent seat for this agency, but i must tell you that with five candidates in the running, a unanimous solution is not obvious, especially if none of the five countries renounces its candidacy, as is currently the case. as regards expulsion, several measures have been adopted, as you know, such as the joint organization of flights for the expulsion of third country nationals. two readmission agreements with hong kong and macao have now entered into force. the ones with albania and sri lanka are finalized. the presidency of the council believes that these negotiations will have to be accelerated in order to achieve a broad network of european readmission agreements. on visa policy, the council decided to enter in the budget of the european union the appropriations necessary for the development of the vis, the system for the exchange of visa data between member states, which will enable national authorities to enter, update and consult visa data by electronic means. we have also adopted a regulation on standards for security features and biometric features to be incorporated in passports and travel documents issued by member states. in doing so, we have created a framework of harmonisation whereby passports and travel documents must contain a digitised facial image, as well as fingerprints. under this decision, member states will have until august 2006 to introduce biometric elements in passports. we know that this is longer than the time allowed by our american partners for visa-free entry into their territory. i call on all the institutions of the union to send a message of understanding to the us government and especially to the us congress so that a situation which we will regret on both sides of the atlantic does not occur in october 2005. the presidency of the council is working on this every day. the commission also. in the field of police cooperation, you know that since the terrible attacks in new york and madrid, the fight against international terrorism has become a priority. the european union is determined to act jointly to combat terrorism and to ensure the best possible protection for its citizens. the european union strategy is global in nature and includes a whole series of measures. mr gijs de vries was appointed coordinator for the fight against terrorism in march last year. its main tasks are firstly to coordinate the council's work on the fight against terrorism, secondly to ensure that it has an overview of all the instruments at the union's disposal and thirdly to closely monitor the implementation of the action plan on terrorism. this coordination function within the council - i stress this in reply to the question - is important for its various formations to have a coherent approach in an area which touches on development, police, justice, defence, foreign policy and other areas. i would also like to remind you that the council evaluates the implementation of the action plan every six months. this review took place in december 2004 and will be carried out again in june this year. as president of the council, i attach particular importance to the continuation of this joint effort to combat terrorism and to ensuring - and this is an important point - that the decisions taken are properly implemented by the member states. the european parliament also asked whether the council would consider translating the shared values and professional standards of the police into legislative measures. there is no council decision to date in this direction and we have to ask ourselves what the change in substance would be if we went in this direction. as regards the integration of europol into european union law, i would remind you that the hague programme states that the council must adopt european legislation on europol as soon as possible after the entry into force of the constitutional treaty and by january 2008 at the latest, taking into account all the tasks entrusted to europol. in the meantime, europol will continue its efforts to improve its functioning by making full use of the cooperation agreement concluded with eurojust. europol and eurojust should also report annually to the council on their joint experiences and the specific results obtained. in addition, europol and eurojust should encourage the use of joint investigation teams of member states and promote their own participation in them. the council also adopted additional measures to enable the european police college to be developed gradually, including the conferral of legal personality and the establishment of its seat. the council also adopted a number of measures to strengthen police cooperation in certain specific areas. the council adopted the decision on the suppression of vehicle crime. the number of vehicles stolen in the member states of the european union is currently estimated at 1.2 million per year. this is a huge cost, amounting to at least fifteen billion euros a year. this decision establishes better cooperation in order to prevent this type of crossborder crime. the council took several decisions to combat football-related violence, the public order disorder it causes and its consequences for law-abiding citizens. in this context, we have taken several cooperation measures to implement security measures, for example for the european football championship held in portugal last year. in the field of drugs, the council agreed in december 2004 on a strategy for the period 2005 to 2012. in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and again taking into account the question raised earlier by mr cavada on the quality of justice, i would like to inform you that the council has taken note with interest of the european parliament's recommendation on the quality of criminal justice and the harmonization of criminal legislation in the member states. i would remind you that the tampere european council has already defined the first milestones for action in this area and the 2004 hague programme sets out the actions that should be implemented in the future. a crucial element in this context is mutual trust in the legal and judicial systems of the member states. mutual trust is not something that is dictated. it requires a set of measures, including a minimum of common rules, an exchange of information and more european training for police and magistrates. in 2004, the council continued to implement the mutual recognition programme, which must be based on the foundation of mutual trust i have just mentioned. in the field of mutual recognition, we have reached agreement in principle on the draft framework decision on the mutual recognition of financial penalties and on the draft framework decision on the mutual recognition of confiscation orders. the council also examined the proposal to create a system for exchanging information extracted from the criminal record with a view to improving knowledge of convictions. i hope that at this week's council, and at the councils that will follow, we can make progress on this important issue for the lives of the citizens of our member states. we have also made progress on substantive criminal law, in particular by adopting the framework decisions on drug trafficking and several reports on the implementation of the framework decisions on, inter alia, money laundering and the fight against terrorism. we have begun in the council to examine the proposal for a framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings in the european union, which are essential elements for building the trust i mentioned earlier. i shall be very interested to hear the report on this subject which will be tabled in this house. as regards the retention of telecommunications data, which is the subject of the questions that were also asked tonight, i would stress that the council attaches great importance to this text in the fight against crime. this is not about listening to a phone call, but about storing data, for example phone numbers, for a certain period of time. we are convinced that this text is useful in view of our experience as minister for justice and home affairs. as a lawyer, i know very well that the legal basis is important. but thank god! let us not waste too much time on the legal basis either in the council or between our institutions, if we share - i hope - the objective of being effective in the fight against crime while ensuring - and this is also the concern of the council - respect for the protection of privacy and keeping in mind the economic costs of these new measures. we will look with a positive attitude at the proposals which the commission sent to the council just a few days ago, including the legal service's opinion on this. i understand that the commission will be making a new proposal in the coming weeks. it will be analysed in the light of the opinion of the legal service. but i would stress once again that the council is concerned primarily with the content. we can of course discuss all the other aspects which have been discussed in this house tonight. the council also made real progress in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters, which is an important aspect of the life of the european citizen. perhaps we talk too much in the area of security and justice about the criminal aspect. the council has laid down rules on the mutual recognition of decisions in the fields of family law, commercial law and other areas of civil law. we have, for example, adopted the regulation on the enforceable title for uncontested claims. we have adopted a directive on compensation for victims in crossborder situations. we continued our work on the proposal for a regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, namely rome ii. it is a particularly important proposal because it aims to define the law applicable, inter alia, in situations of liability for defective products. we have begun to examine the proposal for a regulation establishing a european order for payment procedure. i hope that we can make progress on the legal basis issues in both the european parliament and the council soon. we shall have a policy debate in this respect, pending parliament's opinion in the jha council, to move forward with you on this important text. we have also begun to examine the proposal for a directive on certain aspects of mediation in order to enable judgments given in accordance with the directive to be recognised and enforced in all member states. the list is long and i could go on but you know many of these texts. you can see that in 2004 enormous progress was made towards building a safer, fairer and therefore freer europe. my only regret is that so much remains to be done and that progress is sometimes slow, unanimity in the council and different legal traditions require it. in this european judicial area, i believe that the council and the european parliament share the same ambitions. the constitutional treaty opens up new prospects for us. i can tell you, on behalf of the council, that i am committed to good cooperation with parliament and to working tirelessly so that our citizens can live in safety and freedom.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is obviously committed, with deep conviction, to advancing a real and effective european area of justice, security and freedom. we intend to continue this commitment in close and loyal cooperation with this parliament and the council. there are some strategic guidelines for our action, which i shall explain very briefly to this house. the first principle is to seek a balance, not a legal balance, but first and foremost a political and institutional balance between the two great demands of the european citizens: more security on the one hand, and more freedom on the other. i cannot imagine a european area in which greater security is guaranteed to citizens, but at the expense of their freedoms, with a reduction in their area of freedom and guarantees. the balance is the added value that europe can provide, as minister frieden rightly said. the second major guideline is solidarity, understood as a principle which will enable us - in the great area of immigration policy - to advance once again a european area in a proper balance between firm reaction against trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration on the one hand and, on the other, a real european area to deal with legal immigration which, in my view, is an opportunity and not a danger if accompanied by appropriate measures, for example, on integration. these are all the lines of action on which the commission will work from this year, 2005, considering once again that europe can make a difference compared to the actions of individual national states by considering, for example, cooperation with third countries, countries of origin and transit countries, which must be supported in their policy, so that together we can govern the phenomenon of immigration and not just look at it as if this problem should not directly affect us, tomorrow or perhaps today. and there is a third strategic line: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the strengthening of the european judicial area, and i am referring to civil justice as well as criminal justice. in this context, i see europe's commitment to promoting, not just protecting, fundamental rights, starting with the establishment of the agency for fundamental rights, which will be designed to promote full respect for them, not just to ensure that they are respected. in all this we shall need joint work with parliament and the council to create the synergies which are indispensable for carrying out all the acts which fall within our competence. firstly, the action plan - mentioned by mr frieden and mr cavada and others - will be presented in time for approval under the luxembourg presidency in june; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the action plan will contain, as i have promised to do and as the council has requested, detailed measures, an indication of the time-frame for the adoption of measures and an indication of concrete initiatives to be taken by the member states, in order of priority. the commission is certainly also considering some aspects which are not directly covered today because the constitutional treaty has not yet entered into force. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have been thinking about preparatory work since the beginning of 2006, even before the entry into force of the constitutional treaty, which we very much hope for. i'll give you an example. the democratic control of europol and eurojust is one of the truly important aspects in which the european area is making progress. the commission's proposal is, of course, subject to the entry into force of the european constitution, but nothing prevents the commission from taking advantage of the opportunity to study and work on it, so that it can be ready immediately when the constitutional treaty enters into force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a mechanism for evaluating and monitoring the implementation of the measures in the action plan. as the president-in-office of the council has already said, i believe that this monitoring must be constant: every six months there will be, according to that pattern which has been successful in a completely different sector, but it is the principle that counts, of scoreboard place in the internal market; we are thinking of a model which allows us to take stock every six months, without, of course, the intention of threatening, without the intention of pointing out the negative, but with the intention of helping the member states to meet the deadlines for the adoption of the necessary initiatives. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, if we give time indications and these time indications then remain only on paper, the work of the commission is diminished in its usefulness and we believe instead that we must help, encourage and stimulate the member states by a sharing between the commission and the council which is indispensable in this respect. i shall not dwell on the major priorities, but they have been mentioned: the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the protection of the rights of the child. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most vulnerable victims of all who deserve protection, in my opinion, the strongest. and then the fundamental rights, i said, an impact assessment that we will do: any commission initiative will be assessed before it is adopted with reference to the system of fundamental rights written in the charter; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. finally, two final thoughts: europe's external action in the field of security, freedom and justice. we will be presenting at the beginning of july a comprehensive communication on the international dimension of security and justice, the european area of freedom, security and justice, reaffirming the role that europe can and must play as the defender and promoter of fundamental rights and of great principles and values in the world. much has been said about justice: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i've already said this about immigration: the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world of the human trafficking problem, but must have a sound and balanced policy of integration of those who enter legally. the commission is obviously very interested in the outcome of the open problems which the green paper on immigration has brought to your attention, as you know, without pre-defining solutions, but by posing problems. and this is the spirit in which we want to work with parliament, we will do so with the national parliaments to strengthen this principle, which we have written into the constitution, of checking subsidiarity, but we will of course do so with this parliament, which will be and is for us an indispensable reference point for taking forward initiatives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, under the false title of the area of freedom, security and justice, as enshrined in the constitutional treaty, repression is promoted and magnified in the name of combating terrorism and organised crime, anti-democratic and other measures are instituted and extended, repression mechanisms are extended, a european union is built as a fortress, with strictly controlled immigration, which goes so far as to create concentration camps in third countries, reminiscent of the concentration of workers in previous centuries. it is a challenge to the people to refer to freedom and justice when you are trying to terrorize the people in the name of terrorism to cover up the barbaric policy against the workers and the repressive measures you will use against those who oppose it, when an industry has already been developed from the tampere programme, a veritable workshop of reactionary laws and mechanisms that attack democratic rights and freedoms, when you are setting up an incredible system of filing social action and personal data in all countries, with networks of cameras and other means of surveillance. everyone is watching everything. telephones, airlines, cameras on the streets, cameras in public places, zeppelins in the sky. social struggles are criminalized, radicalisation is considered the number one risk and is implicitly but clearly included in the terrorist threats. the 2004 assessment is therefore characterised by the acceleration of the reactionary character of the european union, with the people as its main target and enemy. the response of the workers' and people's movement must be the intensification of the struggles, the disobedience and the indiscipline to the reactionary laws and to the european union itself.
mr. president, we are witnessing something amazing today. i think that all the political parties in this chamber, or most of them, have sounded the alarm on the subject of personal data, how we collect it, how we protect it, and yet it seems that, apart from the words, which sometimes sound good, the council and the commission have not understood what is going on. obviously, when you're fighting terrorism, it helps to collect data. the question is how you do it, with what purpose and if it is effective, and finally what are you going to suppress in terms of the personal rights of our citizens, to succeed, because - forgive me for the exaggerated expression - and torture is a very effective way to catch terrorists! we have decided, as europeans, that we consider them illegal. it doesn't mean that anything that helps a police force is necessarily a good thing. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. i fully agree with mrs ludford's statement on salamification; it's a problem and it has to stop. let's have a serious talk, put it all on the table! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected against the dangers of terrorism, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected against the dangers of terrorism. the council is giving money there - and that is a good thing - but the council has never managed to give the commission a mandate to have a clear programme. the member states are going to take money without cooperation. these do not work in practice; they sound good to the citizens, but they don't solve the problem. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community.
for the group: ind/dem. mr president, the continent of europe, like my country greece, has one thing in common: they are both peninsular; three sides sea and one side land. there are thousands of miles of coastline and thousands of small and large ports. we greeks have known this means of transport for 3000 years, and the first item recorded in naval history is the golden oar from the argonne expedition, 5,500 years ago. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. we don't drill mountains, we don't cut down trees, and with a floating vessel we can carry a lot of cargo and a lot of passengers. we have a lot of work to do. the report accounts for about 40% of europe's transport work, which is a big profit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. but we also have very high unemployment. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to the various categories of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. so we have a very rich shipping industry but we have unemployment among seafarers. in piraeus, once the largest port in europe, one in two citizens walking are unemployed sailors. we must therefore find a way of introducing a measure so that every ship calling at a port in europe has a number of european seamen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another issue to consider is safety. the commission had issued a directive a few years ago, mr president. some administrative employee, obviously out of self-interest, didn't transfer her. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. so what do we need? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted, and that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means justice and i would like the commissioner to find a way to ensure that the work of the european shipowner does not disappear.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of developing short sea shipping has been underlined by the european commission, with the 2001 white paper on european transport policy as its crowning achievement, while the european parliament has always been a strong supporter of all these initiatives. the unanimous adoption of this report by the committee on transport demonstrates just how much we all care about the development of short sea shipping. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr navarro, for the special interest he has shown in the island regions. the islands are a very sensitive area with severe structural problems, which are particularly acute during the winter months because of the difficulty of access to them. as an elected member of parliament in an island region of greece, i live daily the anxiety of the islanders for better and more frequent coastal communications and transport. given the isolation of the islands, special measures are therefore needed to improve connections with the island regions. hundreds of small inhabited islands are threatened with desertification because there is no economic interest, no competition. brave provision is required. it would be a pity to abandon islands that have been inhabited for more than 3000 years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i too would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur-general, tery wynn, all the colleagues on the committee on budgetary control and the committee's secretariat for their cooperation and support in the preparation of this report. mr president, development policy is a key aspect of the european union's external action. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the regions, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the initiatives of the regions in the future. the european development fund is an important instrument for the implementation of this policy in the acp countries. however, its effectiveness needs to be further enhanced by focusing on actions aimed at eradicating poverty and by its faster and better implementation. the court of auditors' statement of assurance shows that the accounts faithfully reflect the revenue and expenditure relating to the implementation of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth european development funds, which we are examining today. the court of auditors also points to a number of problems. in particular, the use of stabex funds, in respect of funds transferred to the european investment bank which were not used and the amounts due to the european development funds which are not shown in the balance sheet at 31 december 2003. the european commission should step up its efforts to address these weaknesses identified in supervisory systems and controls. a matter of great concern to us also concerns the responsibilities of the commissioners, in particular a problem of confusion of responsibilities between the commissioner for development and humanitarian aid, who is responsible for the policy of the european development fund, and the commissioner for external relations, who is responsible for the operation of euroaide. in a discussion with commissioner michel - he has also sent us a letter and we thank him for it - he assured us that there will be coordinated cooperation from the commission on this matter. we thank him for his efforts, but as the committee on budgetary control and as parliament we will continue to monitor this matter so that there are no problems in the future. another issue that also needs special attention concerns rals. there must be a detailed study by the european commission on the origin of this high percentage of unavailable funds and a method for speeding up the implementation of these funds, which implies a better overall implementation of the european development fund. the decentralisation of resources in the commission delegations, which was an ambitious project and is now being completed, is moving in a positive direction, and we are positive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is another matter which we shall continue to follow with great interest in the period ahead. finally, as regards the integration of the european development fund into the community budget, this issue has been discussed by the european parliament in the past, and it is the view of the parliament that such integration will eliminate the difficulties we are currently encountering in the implementation of the european development fund and will contribute to better financial management and transparency. but because the question of the inclusion of the edf is a broader issue which touches upon the debate on the new financial perspective, we reserve the right to take the final position of the european parliament on this issue when we take a position on the new financial perspective. with these general remarks, mr president, and in the light of the court of auditors' report, i would like to recommend that the commission be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth european development funds for the financial year 2003.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their careful and systematic work, taking into account the views and comments of our committee members, and on the fact that they have produced a text which has been widely accepted. the committee responsible therefore proposes that all agencies be exempted. however, the observations he has made are worth studying, because they will be useful for the european commission's policy in relation to the agencies and for the agencies themselves in their day-to-day management. ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the agencies must have the appropriate financial means to work and that their aim must be transparency, efficiency and added value in the work of the central institutions of the european union. the committee on budgetary control therefore, apart from specific comments on certain bodies, expressed its views on a framework of management rules, based on common harmonised guidelines, which will be drawn up after a substantial dialogue with the european commission. we believe that it would be extremely useful to study more closely the synergies between the activities of certain bodies and those of certain departments or directorates of the european commission. we believe that there should be better communication and cooperation, so that there is no overlapping of objectives and work but complementarity and enhanced european added value. we agree with the rapporteurs that in some organizations there should be better use of human resources and also systematic information about the need to apply equality in organizations. they must become models for our actions and policies on gender equality. finally, the decentralised nature of the agencies gives them a good opportunity to get closer to the citizen and their actions must be visible in the member states where they are established.
in writing. the establishment and upgrading of the european police college aims to accelerate the adaptation of national law enforcement authorities in each country to respond to popular movements that threaten eu policy. it is part of the overall effort to adapt the repressive mechanisms of each eu member state to the so-called counter-terrorism. it seeks to 'train' uniformly the police forces of the member countries so that they are more effective in protecting the interests of capital, in preventing and suppressing popular struggles and mobilizations. faced with this need, sovereign rights of countries are being ceded to serve the common interest of the plutocracy of each country by another repressive mechanism that requires expanded jurisdiction, legal personality and the ability to intervene in the internal affairs of all countries. the aim is to train police forces to deal with 'non-military crises', i.e. to deal with popular demonstrations in non-eu countries. we are opposed to the report on the establishment of a european police academy, noting that it is not aimed at combating crime but at suppressing the popular movement.
mr president, the question that arises with the entry of new countries is each time only numerical and economic. i mean, is it cost, deficit, growth, production, or is it cultural? or is it social? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they have lost 45 years, but they bear our signature when we sent them to the soviet union. signed next to stalin, put by roosevelt and churchill. we owe them 45 years of delay in social development and economic growth. we must now, therefore, without hesitation, repay them what we owe them. we must give them a hand in joining the european community. we owe it to civilization, to the culture of europe. let's not look at the sterile numbers! sterile numbers are for technocrats. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council last december declared the negotiations with the two countries concluded with the agreement of the committee on foreign affairs, which was most clear. we still have today the positions of both the council and the commissioner, mr rehn. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will also be monitoring very closely the progress that is being made, as commissioner rehn has said. i would also like to point out that the amendment which provides that the european parliament will be fully involved in the accession process of these two countries and in the decision-making process, if safeguard clauses are to be used, is very important, which, if you like, also ensures parliament's control. we, the greek meps of the ppe, strongly support the prospect of romania and bulgaria joining, knowing full well that this will strengthen stability and security in the balkans. we also believe that a negative result would send the wrong political message and discourage countries from making all the necessary efforts at a rapid pace.
member of the commission. the honourable member raises a number of issues relating to the application of community legislation on hazardous waste in greece. i will answer each of these questions one by one. as regards the criteria for accepting waste in the various categories of landfill, the procedures and measures for accepting waste in landfills, as they are euphemistically called in greek, are mainly laid down in the interministerial decision 29407/3508 of 2002 transposing the waste landfill directive into greek law. all greek legislation on the management of hazardous waste is notified to the commission immediately after its adoption. in july 2004, council decision 2003/33 laying down the criteria and procedures for the acceptance of waste at landfills entered into force. member states are to apply the criteria set out in section ii of the annex to that decision by 16 july 2005. greece has not yet notified any additional measures to comply with that decision. the second question concerns information on the hazardous waste produced annually in greece. in the context of reporting on the implementation of the hazardous waste directive, the greek authorities shall provide information on the quantities of waste produced annually and on the methods used for its disposal or recovery. according to the information available, the average annual quantity of hazardous waste generated for the period 1998-2003 was 363 400 tonnes. the majority of this, about two thirds of the hazardous waste generated, is temporarily stored before being finally disposed of or recovered. there are more detailed figures available to the honourable member if he is interested. finally, as regards the failure to comply with the judgment of 13 june 2002, article 8 (3) of directive 91/689 provides for a specific reporting obligation. in particular, member states are required to send the commission information on any plant, undertaking or installation which disposes of and recovers hazardous waste. the european court of justice ruled in its judgment of 13 june 2002 that the hellenic republic had failed to fulfil its obligations under that provision. since the commission had received insufficient information on the measures taken by greece to comply with the court's decision, the commission initiated the procedure under article 228 of the ec treaty. in reply to the commission's letter of formal notice, the greek authorities have submitted information, which is available and required under article 8, which is being examined in order to assess whether greece has complied with the abovementioned judgment of the court of justice. if the information provided is not considered satisfactory, the commission will be obliged to issue a reasoned opinion in accordance with article 228 (2) of the treaty on european union.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a uniform manner. firstly, has the commission noted any concrete steps taken by the greek authorities in the course of the year? secondly, what legal action do you intend to take to bring the authorities of our common home into compliance with community law at last?
member of the commission. i agree with mr martin that consensus behind the political will is extremely important and, on the basis of my recent visit to sofia, i noted the cross-party consensus supporting this objective. all the parties also confirmed that, regardless of the forthcoming elections, they are willing to work before and after the elections towards achieving this objective, even if that would mean cancelling part of the summer or autumn holidays. this is clearly a priority of such magnitude for bulgaria that there is a broad political will. as regards the finance for the retraining of judges, we are already engaged in supporting bulgaria in its institution-building exercise and we are willing to consider this option if our previous commitments are insufficient. of course, meeting these criteria is mainly in the hands of the bulgarian government itself.
madam president, following the question of my colleague, i would like to ask the commissioner: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these fraternity programs are going to continue? will the european commission continue to finance the member states under these programmes and, in this case, both bulgaria and romania for the period remaining until the accession of these countries to the european union?
member of the commission. i would very much like to respond to the question of cyprus, but i can do that next time. the commission is aware that the option to use nuclear energy has been under consideration in turkey for many years, since 1965. we have informed parliament on this issue on several occasions. at this point, turkey does not operate any nuclear power plant, nor has a licence been issued for the construction of any such plant. the commission recalls that under the treaties, each member state is free to use the energy sources of its choice. currently, roughly half of all member states use nuclear energy. consequently, the decision to use or not to use nuclear power has never been the subject of any accession negotiations. however, as you may recall, in the previous enlargement round, the eu insisted on the need for a high level of nuclear safety in candidate countries operating nuclear plants, and substantial parts of the pre-accession strategy have been devoted to this aim. in certain cases, the eu has even demanded the early closure of old nuclear plants or nuclear reactors which had been identified by the international community as non-upgradeable at reasonable cost. if turkey is going to generate nuclear energy, it will obviously have to ensure a high level of nuclear safety as well. as a candidate country, turkey will also be expected to comply with the euratom acquis on nuclear safeguards and radiation protection, as well as the directive on environmental impact assessments. this includes transboundary consultation with member states. under the international convention of nuclear safety, of which the european atomic energy community is a contracting party, turkey already has an obligation to consult neighbouring countries on proposed nuclear installations. several potential sites have been named in the past in turkey, while only one site has received a licence. studies for up to three other possible sites have recently been included in the investment plans of the ministry of energy. the commission has followed with interest the situation as it has evolved, and in particular the evaluation of relevant seismic conditions. it is clear that any nuclear power plant would have to be designed and built in a manner allowing it to withstand any potential seismic event and thus guarantee the necessary level of safety under all conditions.
i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for his comprehensive reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so in the near future. i would like the commissioner to follow this matter closely during the negotiations. i do not question the right of a country to build nuclear power plants. the question is, firstly, a high level of security and, secondly, that we all - and the european commission - guarantee that nuclear energy will be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and not for military purposes.
member of the commission. madam president, i know it is very late but as the questions the honourable members have raised require detailed replies, i shall, if you will allow me, use the time allowed at the end of the debate in addition to the time allowed for my introductory remarks. even though the importance of the impact of enlargement cannot be assessed only in budgetary terms, i understand the will expressed by members to have a better understanding, for the sake of transparency and non-discrimination, of the commission’s budgetary proposal in the context of enlargement. enlargement has financial implications and we need a financial effort at eu level. however, let us be clear that the impact of enlargement also concerns other dimensions. i agree that the union’s budget for the period 2007-2013 must be sufficient to guarantee the economic convergence of the 10, which i am convinced will be for the good of all 25 member states. it is clear that the size of the overall budgetary envelope for 2007-2013, and the size of the envelope for cohesion policy in this context, matters a great deal. will we have sufficient funds for 2007-2013? we never have enough funds, because europe’s needs are enormous. but in reality we know that we do not have all the money in the world; nor do we have the absorption capacities that would allow us to spend much more money in an efficient way. i want to stress that, some months ago, the commission tabled a proposal under which every euro is well thought through and justified. that is why we consider the proposal to be well balanced and well prepared, including with regard to cohesion policy, and a basis for addressing the needs, problems and challenges that the enlarged europe with a hundred million more citizens will face now and in the future. that is my reaction to your comment on whether we have enough money. i very much agree with mrs krehl’s comments on the efficient use of public and taxpayers’ money. we also have to think about the budget in terms of the efficiency and quality of its spending. when we think about the cost of enlargement, i always feel tempted to remind you that the ten new member states have fully contributed to the union’s budget, including to the existing correction mechanism, in line with common rules. when you look at the policies that the new member states are gradually introducing into major union policies, we must remember that enlargement has already been taken into consideration from the point of view of the contribution to the financing of policies. when preparing the proposal for 2007-2013, the commission took into account all the budgetary developments linked to enlargement. in reply to your question of whether the commission proposal constitutes equal treatment of the member states in the context of cohesion policy, i should like to briefly mention the six basic principles on which we based our approach to the distribution of the costs and of the potential benefits when preparing the budget. these principles allow a fair distribution of the effects of enlargement. firstly, the commission has sought to guarantee the necessary means to finance economic convergence and cohesion in an enlarged, more diversified europe. secondly, the commission has taken account of the economic fact of life that there are regions in the 15 member states that have not yet completed the process of economic convergence. thirdly, we strongly believe that a cohesion policy is also necessary for regions not subject to the convergence objective, whilst being guided by objective economic criteria and the ‘berlin method’, as adjusted by the commission. we also keep in mind the requirement that all member states should be treated equitably in any final agreement. fifthly, we believe that the cohesion policy should apply in a uniform way to all 25 member states: we should not have one policy for the 10 member states and another policy for the 15. sixthly, the commission remains aware that, for some member states, difficulties will still need to be addressed in any final agreement in the course of the negotiations, again in the interests of overall fairness. we follow very closely, and, as you know, participate as much as the role of the commission allows, in the negotiation process between member states. we are prepared to contribute in an appropriate way and whenever necessary to any final agreement taking into account specific cases. at this stage, the commission will not propose any special solution or compensation mechanism. however, if, in the course of the negotiations in the council, such a mechanism or such programmes and projects were proposed, then the commission would be more than willing to participate in contributing to the final design of such a proposal. it is important and true that the distribution of financial resources amongst member states reflects in principle and in general the relative social and economic situation of each region and member state, and they are measured by well-known indicators. i do not want to list them, but let me stress that the commission has recognised that in certain cases final allocations will be affected by factors other than objective socio-economic circumstances in regions or member states. as you know, according to recent statistics, 16 out of 254 regions with more than 60 million inhabitants will feel the statistical effect of enlargement. in these cases, the commission has proposed an ad-hoc solution, namely creating a specific transitional scheme at regional level and adjusting certain parameters of the ‘berlin method’. as a result, the commission’s proposal for the statistical-phasing out regions represents a very limited reduction: an average of only 6% of what these regions would have received were they fully eligible for the convergence objective in the 2007-2013 period this is the commission’s current proposal. my concern is to maintain this proposal. as we hear, there are many other ideas, including in the member states. many consider this proposal to be too generous. we are, therefore, focusing very much on defending this proposal. with the adjustment of the ‘berlin method’, another instrument the commission has used in its aim to share out fairly the effects of enlargement, we have also managed to increase the overall financial envelope by eur 16 billion. this adjustment reflects the statistical effect of enlargement on the way we take into account the national prosperity factor in our calculations. let me also say that some of the reductions in the allocations, which are perceived by regions to be a consequence of enlargement, are not a result of enlargement, because there are 12 regions with 18 million people whose gdp has increased over the years faster than the community average. today, those regions will come under objective 2. as a result, we have on the table today a budget that is more or less equally divided between the old and the new member states. all the above elements confirm that the commission’s proposal addresses the question of an equitable distribution of the effects of the enlargement at the same time –which is important for us – as preserving the objective nature of the method of allocation based on community-level statistics. let me also react to what you, and in particular mrs krehl, said with regard to the balances on own-resources. those issues clearly come under the responsibility of dalia grybauskaitė. i know that she would be delighted to exchange views with you on this. however, it must be said that although budgetary balances do not provide a complete picture of all the advantages stemming from union membership, the commission is aware that discussions on this subject are a reality and play an important role in the public debates in some of the member states. that is why the commission’s proposal on the system for financing the eu budget in terms of revenue, which is not my responsibility, should also be seen as a compromise solution, which is intended as a kind of safety net. you have stressed the importance of net balances and you suggest a link between the regional policy and the allocation of funds and the net balances. to put this bluntly, this is not the best approach to regional policy, because we pursue regional policy in order to reduce disparities in accordance with article 158 and not to solve the net balance questions. that is why we should not mix these discussions.
on behalf of the group: the european parliament madam president, commissioner hübner has tried to give us answers on a matter which is not strictly within her competence, because despite the title, the content of the question concerns mainly her colleague, mrs grybauskaitė, as she herself said at one point, but i think it is the conference of presidents' fault, which gave the question a wrong title. however, i would argue that the main message of the question is that the burdens arising in general in the new period of the financial perspective should be distributed fairly among the member states. and i would say that not only the cohesion countries so far but also the new member states should be victims, which should be treated fairly and i am not sure that this is always the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. firstly, there are certainly significant reductions in cohesion countries in relation to their benefits from the european union's regional policy, and in this context i welcome the commissioner's suggestion that the commission is prepared to discuss at least some compensation mechanisms. secondly, i find it scandalous that we still have this british exception in the budget, and for that reason i believe that there should be a global debate at some point about the own resources system. thirdly, and finally, i think that the debate so far has shown that it is necessary for parliament to hold a wider debate in the near future, madam president, so that the papers circulating in the commission's corridors on the issues raised by this question can be discussed more widely, so that we all know what we are talking about and we can see the injustices that exist at the expense of the cohesion countries and regions of the european union, which are lagging behind in terms of development.
i would also like to thank mrs hübner for her reply. i think that the commission has a duty to do so. it is true that the historically necessary reunification of europe, which we all strongly supported, must not bring about new dividing lines and undermine the internal cohesion of the european union, for which we have all worked all these years. the data show that the cost of enlargement is not shared fairly and proportionately across all member states. countries such as greece, spain and portugal are suffering serious repercussions which could be dramatic if the final agreement on the new financial perspective deviates from the european commission's initial proposals. and i think that is the crucial issue for commissioner hübner, as she herself has said, but ultimately the question will be first of all what the final amount of the community budget will be and whether the structural funds can be adequately financed and then how we can ensure that there is sufficient funding to be able to facilitate the continuation of the development path of those regions which are actually affected by enlargement. we note from your reply that these issues concern you, but we would like to have more clarification on the issue you have raised, namely the financial compensation mechanism.
madam president, the vast majority of my group considers that the 0.41% rate is insufficient to finance the cohesion objectives, and we therefore consider any thought of reducing this amount to be unthinkable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are asking for strong financial compensation mechanisms from the commission, which must work on this idea, strong support during the transitional period of the convergence regions and finally fully tackling the problem of the regions which are victims of the so-called statistical effect. the budgetary cost is also minimal. finally, because the cohesion objective also aims at territorial cohesion, i think that special care and treatment is needed for geographically disadvantaged areas.
madam president, commissioners, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, which has improved the commission's proposal. sustainable development and ecological action are a need and a priority for the european union and are fully in line with the lisbon strategy. given the difficulty of dealing with such issues, which involve many commercial and economic activities, i would like to stress the following: the self-regulation process is a very positive solution in the speedy implementation of the ecodesign framework and can help improve market response and the adoption of legislation on energy-consuming products and needs to be governed by very strict limits so that companies are obliged, through creative and realistic processes, to follow and implement it. derogations in favour of member states on matters concerning environmental aspects, which differ from country to country, such as hazard limits and environmental behaviour, are necessary given the diversity and heterogeneity of environmental conditions in each country. the need to control products imported from third countries, which may be difficult to identify and effectively control, is emphasised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. the agency may also ensure confidentiality for reasons of fair competition, especially in high-tech products with a short commercial life.
mr president, i believe that the luxembourg presidency is a good presidency, which has so far been able to achieve a creative compromise on the stability pact, which allows the eurogroup member states to move forward on the basis of the rules of budgetary discipline and with a certain degree of flexibility. the luxembourg presidency also succeeded in giving concrete form to the lisbon strategy at the brussels european council, but it is a pity that it has not been possible to identify the countries which are failing to promote this strategy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a way that is compatible with the internal market. finally, i would like to wish the luxembourg presidency success in tackling a very important issue we are facing, namely the budgetary perspective, and in particular the budget for the union's regional policy, the cohesion policies. the question is too big and too difficult. i personally believe that we are all doomed to reach an agreement by june, otherwise regional policy programmes will be the victims of any disagreement at european level.
in writing. the kke is against the eu because it is an association of capitalist states, which safeguards the interests of capital and better conditions for its competition with other imperialist centres. in this respect, it is also opposed to the accession of bulgaria, which is being carried out with the aim of annexing it, plundering its wealth and economy, exploiting its workers, turning it into a satellite of nato, to serve its aggressive policy. we note the very onerous conditions laid down for bulgaria's accession to the eu. the results of the pre-accession process and capitalist restructuring are already an increase in unemployment, hunger wages - €61 per month - precision, poverty, drastic cuts in social benefits, with painful consequences for the working class and the popular strata of the country, and on the other hand an increase in the profits of eu capital. the kke expresses its solidarity with the working class and the people of bulgaria in their struggle against the anti-people policy of the eu and the political representatives of capital.
in writing. the revision of the stability pact and the examination of the interim lisbon agenda are the two whips that will be used most intensively against the people, and especially the youth. another anti-people offensive is being prepared. the revised stability pact does not revise the objectives of the anti-people policy towards the workers. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union's external relations. the decisions to make pension systems worse, to abolish collective agreements, to make part-time and temporary work more common, to liberalize working hours, to reduce state aid, to reduce benefits, to completely liberalize the market with new privatisations, to drastically reduce employer's contributions, to make private insurance more common are a fact of life, with direct consequences for the reduction of wages and pensions, the increase of poverty and unemployment. the european youth pact in particular and the promotion of training and lifelong learning mean lifelong illiteracy and flexibility in the service of capital. the way forward for the peoples and the youth is resistance and indiscipline to the anti-people decisions of the summit council.
mr president, the western balkans have been and are a testing ground for the effectiveness of the european union's external action. the european union's policy has so far been fragmented, fragmented, uncoordinated and out of step with the region's development potential. the challenges for the development of a more productive european policy in relation to the western balkans are: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the link between european support and the european perspective of the balkan countries and strict conditions for political adjustment, administrative reforms and justice. thirdly, the drawing up of a comprehensive and coherent strategic plan for the development of the balkans with the intermediate objective of integrated and sustainable development and the final objective of convergence with the european union. the project will articulate each country's priorities and seek areas of cooperation and mutual benefit, set priorities and axes of action, record and quantify needs in key areas and allocate resources for its implementation. fourthly, support for regional economic integration with a focus on cross-border infrastructure and transeuropean networks. the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in copenhagen, has also expressed its concern about the situation in the countries of central and eastern europe. finally, i consider the amendment by mr samuelsen and other related amendments on the name of fyrom unacceptable for the reasons stated in the joint statement by the new democracy parliamentary group, which has been circulated to all members of the european parliament. as a minimum sign of institutional and political responsibility, i believe that the members of the european parliament and the other institutions of the european union should use the official names, the names of the united nations, as commissioner rehn has done.
mr president, the initiative of the green and liberal group to table amendments on the name of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and to ask for the recognition of the country by the european union under its constitutional name forces me to focus on this issue first and foremost. i want to state in the strongest possible terms that this initiative is in direct contradiction to the un resolutions, to the decisions of the european union and its institutions, including the european parliament. this initiative is contrary to any notion of solidarity with a member state of the european union, greece, which is one of the parties to the ongoing negotiation process within the un framework to find a mutually acceptable and dignified solution, an honest and reasonable compromise. the european union has been a party to the international criminal court, and the international criminal court is a party to the international criminal court, and the international criminal court is a party to the international criminal court. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conflict and war in the balkans should make us all more cautious, more responsible, more realistic. greece has succeeded in absorbing the lessons of the recent history of conflicts in the balkans and has emerged as a stabilizing factor through peace and cooperation initiatives. it is the first european country to invest in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which has created over 20 000 jobs. it has demonstrated practical responsibility, realism and a willingness to compromise at the un to resolve the name issue in a reasonable and dignified compromise for both countries. i therefore call on my green and liberal colleagues and the rapporteur, mr samuelsen, to withdraw their amendments, at least for now. i would like to ask the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner to give their views on this matter.
president of the council. mr president, i should first like to thank and also congratulate parliament, and in particular the two rapporteurs, for the work they have done, for the ambitious but also realistic approach they have developed in these two reports. you mention two figures somewhere, the 60% and 70% of public opinion support for the development of a common foreign and security policy. it is probably one of the elements that enjoys the highest level of support in our public opinions. you are the representatives of the european citizens, which means that this policy can only be developed with the citizens, which also means with your support, in dialogue, as the rapporteur, mr kuhne, has just said. the european security strategy was adopted by the european council on 11 december 2003. the past 15 months do not allow us to take a full and exhaustive account of the implementation of the strategy, but they are sufficient to assess the impact it has already had and to discuss the way forward for its future implementation. 2004 was a crucial year for the political development of the union, whose ambitions and responsibilities in the world have been growing. the citizens of the union, as well as international partners, have called for a stronger european presence on the international scene. the union has responded to this call by trying to pursue a more active, coherent and effective foreign policy, based in particular on the principles of the united nations charter. the european union is a global player with political, economic and other achievements. the fact that the 'european model', which we talk about a lot in the context of the european constitution, is highly appreciated in the world is a source of satisfaction but must also be, for us europeans, a strong motivation to do more. the european security strategy is the guiding principle for the day-to-day running of the common foreign and security policy. it sets out the challenges and threats we must face, as well as the instruments that must be applied to tackle the problems. the fight against terrorism was mentioned. it is certainly one of the crucial problems. we have put in place a number of mechanisms, stronger cooperation between europol and eurojust. the fight against terrorism therefore shows that the notion of security does not only include a foreign policy dimension, a military dimension, but goes much further. there is also a development dimension, a dimension of defending and promoting human rights. there is, of course, also a dimension to the solution of major conflicts, in particular the conflict in the middle east, not to mention a presence in the regions we have already mentioned, in particular bosnia-herzegovina and other parts of the western balkans. in view of the main threats identified in that strategy, the european council adopted in december 2003 a european strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as a complementary measure. this is also an area where europe has shown that it knows how to act, particularly in relation to iran. i believe that we have here set an important milestone in trying to find political solutions to extremely sensitive and extremely dangerous questions for international peace. the european security strategy is based on the idea that most problems can only be solved in a multilateral framework. we agree with the two rapporteurs on this point too. the european union clearly needs to pursue its objectives in this multilateral framework, in partnership with all actors, including the un. the european union therefore has an interest in seeing the united nations and the multilateral system strengthened. we must support the efforts of the secretary-general to modernise the united nations system, to make it more efficient. the reform of the un is indeed a very important aspect of the european union's security policy, a very important aspect of its foreign policy. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr brok, on what he has said on this subject, particularly on one particular point. i shall merely mention the importance of the transatlantic partnership, even though we had a debate here in parliament a few weeks ago on its importance. the partnership has also been given a boost, particularly since president bush's visit to brussels, and this should be followed up. we have many, i would say, enormous, common interests. we have a lot of opportunities to cooperate more, but on an equal footing. we can find solutions with the americans to the major problems, including, as has been said, a priority problem: the conflict in the middle east. the european union is also working to develop economic, political and cultural cooperation, not only with its main traditional partners such as the united states and canada, but also with partners such as russia and japan. i believe that cooperation with russia, even if there are problems, is important for the european union, for stability and for peace on our continent. but there are new players on the world stage: china, india, brazil, south africa. there are also regional actors such as the african union, with which we had a dialogue a few days ago to strengthen, as the commission put it, our policy towards africa, with the aim of promoting peace and development - the two are closely linked - on this continent which is particularly close to the european union. the strategy also serves to promote our relations with other neighbours to the east and south. we have just had the debate on the balkans. the euro-mediterranean partnership and the european neighbourhood policy are of fundamental importance for promoting stability in the countries concerned, but also for our interests, both economic and political. i remember perfectly well what was said. it is not enough to turn a blind eye to the spread of problems. the problems of those countries are very quickly becoming our problems, whether through wild, illegal migration, or through terrorism or terrorist threats. the importance of human rights in security is also at the heart of solutions to conflicts and this aspect was particularly emphasised in the last report of the un secretary-general. there can be no development or peace without respect for human rights. it is in this spirit that the high representative has recently appointed a personal representative for human rights, with the aim of improving the coherence and effectiveness of our policy in this area within the cfsp. as regards the more military aspect, the strategy suggests that the european union needs to be more operational in the various areas where it has a role to play. we must provide solutions to conflicts. we must act, we must play a more active role in maintaining, in restoring peace. we must ensure better coherence between the civil and military aspects. we must first have a conflict prevention approach. in this context, it is important that 7,000 european soldiers are now deployed under the flag of the european union with the mission of safeguarding peace, promoting further reforms, further reconciliation. we have already discussed the balkans. the european union has also taken on major operations elsewhere, in the south caucasus, africa and afghanistan. significant progress has been made in the field of military capabilities. the first of the 13 tactical groups was created as part of the european rapid deployment force. the european union also established the european defence agency to streamline defence procurement costs and to increase the quality and quantity of military capabilities available to european states. civil-military cooperation was taken to a higher operational level, notably through the creation of a civil-military unit. all these measures should enable the union to increase its crisis management capabilities in order to be able to successfully address the complex security crises of the 21st century. cooperation with nato was particularly highlighted. i believe that we must think about developing the provisions of berlin plus in a spirit of partnership and not in a spirit of submission. i believe that the european union has a very important role to play here too. the european foreign and security policy has thus strengthened its coherence and operational capabilities. but we cannot afford to slacken our efforts. we need institutional strengthening, clear commitments, particularly in terms of solidarity in the face of potential threats, and greater visibility of the european union on the international scene. in this respect, i believe that the future constitution will once again generate important progress in the development of the cfsp and the external security policy. the creation of the union minister for foreign affairs is a major innovation, allowing for greater coherence in the union's external relations. the fact that he chairs the relex council gives this coherence to which we are all committed; it also gives us greater visibility and better continuity. another important aspect which i would simply like to mention - and i know that it is particularly dear to the rapporteur, mr brok - is the creation of the european union external action service, the practical arrangements for which are still under discussion. the luxembourg presidency is very attentive to the progress made in setting up this european external action service and to the views of the european parliament in this regard. we do not want the establishment of this service to dismantle certain community mechanisms by favouring intergovernmental cooperation. this service was designed to mark a significant step forward in the conduct and implementation of external policy, in particular in terms of greater efficiency, greater coherence, a greater presence of the european union, and a better use of all available resources. we want the institutional rules, the respective powers, to be respected. we need to involve national diplomacies more widely. we must somehow make them more european, without however arriving at a kind of renationalisation or intergovernmentalisation of what is now operating under community rules. these are the lines we are defending in setting up this service. one last word on the information aspect. i believe that the present presidency, like previous presidencies, wants to have an exchange with the european parliament on the major options and the major timetables in foreign policy. we want this dialogue, it is important, as i said at the beginning of this speech. i can commit myself, as this presidency, to continuing the efforts in this direction and to having the contacts and meetings you want, precisely to achieve a coherent common foreign and security policy, which is genuinely supported by all the actors and by all the institutions of the union. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the house, ladies and gentlemen of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities, and the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. first of all, i should like to thank you very much for your substantial and balanced reports, some of which are not very clear. i would like to highlight three specific points to strengthen europe's global role. the first is effective multilateralism. i think that this is clearly the right response to the increasingly interconnected international system. the year 2005 will be a decisive year for reform and for strengthening the multilateral system, international law and, in particular, the united nations. the un summit in september will make a significant contribution to this, on the basis of the recent report by secretary-general kofi annan. the european contribution to this reform debate is essential in my view. europe has a leading role to play here and must play it. the commission is therefore in the process of making detailed proposals on the above-mentioned subjects. as you know, i am campaigning in this context for a seat for the eu on the un security council. how this is to be developed in detail is open to debate. but what matters is that the union should actually have the weight it deserves in the most important international bodies. multilateralism can only be effective if it is based on a strong transatlantic partnership. the world's problems can only be solved effectively if the united states and europe really pull together. president bush's visit to brussels has clearly shown that the united states of america fully appreciates the eu's increasingly important role. our common structures must respond to this ever-wider agenda, while remaining flexible. the commission is now examining whether and to what extent the new transatlantic agenda should be institutionally changed. the result of our deliberations will then feed into the eu-us summit in june. in this context i - as do some here, including some in the group - consider closer relations between parliament and the us congress to be essential. the european union's foreign policy is already based on a comprehensive security concept, which is rightly reflected in the reports. in my view, ensuring the security of europe is not just a matter of defence policy or military action but is now above all a matter of conflict prevention, civilian crisis management and common policies on trade, the economy, energy, justice, health and the environment. the european security strategy already takes account of these complex threat patterns. the commission is making an important contribution to this, also in terms of the implementation of this security strategy: in our daily, close relations with third countries and recently also through various communications, for example on the question of combating terrorism, strengthening civil protection, but also in terms of the reform of development policy, where we just yesterday in the commission presented important communications. the broad concept of security must, in my view, ultimately focus on human security, which has always been the guiding principle of my own work. infringements of individual freedom and dignity are often at the root of structural security risks. in short, the actions identified in the security strategy in areas such as non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or counter-terrorism, as well as actions towards failed states and in regional conflicts, can only succeed if they are also part of a broader conflict prevention and resolution policy. one of the examples of this would be afghanistan, and we hope that iraq can be such a positive example in the future. the union has a comparative advantage in this area, with its unique set of instruments. but to work efficiently, we need above all the coherent use of all our instruments - civil, military and sectoral. we must develop a long-term perspective for crisis regions and use our community instruments - both external aid and the prospect of closer relations with the union - in a targeted but integral way. in addition, we are helping to implement nuclear non-proliferation policy - think of the massive eu support for nuclear security and non-proliferation since the early 1990s - and we are fighting terrorism, but also the proliferation of small arms and landmines and drugs. another key instrument - i mentioned it earlier - for implementing the european security strategy is, of course, european development policy. we are trying to go one step further here, also in the light of the un millennium development goals, because, as i said at the beginning, we europeans must be the ones to take the lead. finally, i would like to refer to the commission's forthcoming reform proposals on european crisis management and civil protection, which we will present next week in a communication to the council and the european parliament, and which we will of course discuss in detail here in the house. i should like to thank you for your support of parliament's programme for european security research. the commission is working very closely with the european defence agency in this area. let me also emphasize this: i think it is important that parliament should propose that there should be a regular debate on the security strategy, including the involvement of the parliaments of the member states. democracy and the rule of law are, as has rightly been said, essential european values and therefore also integral parts of our foreign policy. the european union can only be strong on the international stage if it is truly coherent. to meet the new challenges effectively, the eu therefore needs more than just a common foreign and security policy in the narrow sense. the common foreign and security policy is one of several instruments in the eu's external policy and is complementary to our other policies. the success of this broad approach is, in my view, reflected in the concept of the european neighbourhood policy, which is one of my particular priorities. exporting security, stability and prosperity to our neighbours and enabling structural reforms has a clear security dimension. the enp is thus just like our european development policy a long-term, intelligent security policy in the regional context. we have already entered the implementation phase. relations with our partner countries will be gradually deepened, particularly through the detailed joint action plans, which provide a clear perspective for the process of moving towards europe. the clear support of the european parliament for the neighbourhood policy has been and is very important to me. i therefore look forward to the report by mr laschet. the enp is, in a sense, if i may say so, our security policy in the regional context. it contributes to the stabilisation and reform of geopolitically important regions by linking them to europe in the long term and by specific joint actions, such as cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it is thus an essential instrument for implementing the european security strategy. with seven partner countries - including ukraine - we have already adopted detailed and ambitious action plans, with five more to follow shortly. i shall conclude with this. the reports also place great emphasis on the need for institutional reform. our new constitutional treaty will bring about substantial, positive changes in this area, and the commission will strongly support them. i shall therefore also be interested in your detailed ideas. we have been preparing for some time to implement the treaty, so that we can hopefully be operational immediately after successful ratification. this is being done, not least, by the establishment of a joint external service, where there are very thorough discussions between the council and the commission. these reforms are really important. more effective cooperation between the eu institutions is essential. the report by mr kuhne rightly emphasizes that the union, as a global actor, must of course also provide itself with the appropriate financial resources. i am therefore also confident that we will soon be able to reach an agreement on the reform of our external assistance instruments proposed by the commission. but at the same time it is clear that no institutional reform and no financial improvement can replace the necessary foreign policy will. europe therefore needs to be seen as an even stronger global player. the european parliament plays a crucial role in shaping the political will as a forum for a broad, transparent and democratic debate. (applause from the centre)
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, as the author of the libe committee opinion on the kuhne report, i would like to take this opportunity to warmly congratulate mr kuhne on the extremely difficult process he has gone through in order to be able to bring together so many views in such a strong and good report. i have four points to make: the security strategy, as it is presented today, very properly does not focus on military means, but focuses on all the other means that the european union can use to promote the fight against all the causes of insecurity in europe. one of them is terrorism, but it's not the only one. we must be very careful, when we are preparing such a strategy, not to be caught by the danger of the "du jour" and ignore so many others. in this context it is very important that we act with respect for human rights when we act abroad. the european union cannot tolerate guantanamo-style events. i stress this because even america a few years ago did not think it could tolerate them, but we see them happening. i'd rather we put the brakes on today than deal with them later when we're not ready. secondly, we must promote democracy as europeans. the rapporteur and the commission have rightly pointed out that democracy is promoted in europe in a very different way from that of other major powers on earth. let's keep this with the un always with us. we can't operate outside of it. thirdly, parliament must be informed and discussed on foreign policy issues. it cannot continue to be ignored in proceedings concerning fundamental rights, such as the famous pnr, the data given to america, allegedly for the purpose of combating terrorism, for which parliament has sued this commission, and i hope it will win this case. fourth and last, the famous sitcen, an important agency. i do not know how my committee actually operates, what its limits are, how it collects information, but information and the collection of information and personal data is equally sensitive for this parliament, whether it is done by sitcen or by anyone else. the history of the principle of availability and sharing of data is being discussed in my committee at the moment. it is not decided yet, and i thank and congratulate mr kuhne on the importance he attaches to his report on the cooperation of our committees. the need to combat terrorism does not justify all means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the two reports under discussion today, mr president, clearly show the identity and the aggressive imperialist character of the european union. they confirm the common strategy of the european union with the united states of america against peoples and countries, which will, among other things, be based on the brutal doctrine of preventive war, which is recorded in the reports and clearly referred to in the constitutional treaty. they make it a priority to prepare the european union better for new military interventions, whether jointly with nato and the united states of america or on its own. in the name of the security of the european union, the countries and regions of new interventions are being photographed, starting with the balkans, the caucasus, the middle east and extending to almost the entire planet, under the pretext of strengthening the international order. the philosophy of the common foreign and defence policy and the european security strategy is the european version of the imperialist doctrine of the united states of america to protect american interests, in the name of which hundreds of interventions have been carried out, which have sown death and destruction in all corners of the planet. we believe that the people are awakening. they will resist and will not allow this policy to be implemented. and finally, we ask the question: who's threatening who? the european union has troops in too many countries in the world. it is part of a vast network of bases, has been involved in three wars and more... (the president interrupts)
president of the council. the employment guidelines have for some years been aimed at promoting active ageing with a view to raising the average effective retirement age, in particular specific guideline 5 of the 2003 guidelines, which was renewed unchanged in 2004. in addition, the stockholm european council set an ambitious target of 50% employment for people aged 55-64 and the barcelona european council set a complementary ambitious target of raising the average retirement age by five years by 2010, from the current 61 years according to eurostat estimates. the council considers the retention of older workers in employment to be a major challenge, as reflected in the key messages it recently adopted for the spring european council. in these messages, it indicates that this issue should be given priority in reforms to ensure social adequacy and the sustainability of pension systems in the future, depending on the situation in each country. the increase in longevity will require a further postponement of the age of exit from the labour market, which implies the gradual dismantling of the incentives for early retirement.
mr president, in the context of the freedom of european citizens and the abolition of discrimination - age or other - and with a view to exploiting the accumulated experience of workers of pre-retirement age, will common european policies be provided for so that young people can benefit from the experience of those who have left, without being prevented from taking up the jobs that are theirs?
i'm the editor. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's oral question and the motion for a resolution by the committee on culture and education on the fight against the use of banned substances in sport are the result of a long effort by the european parliament. i would just like to remind you that the first initiative of the european parliament on doping was the resolution of 7 september 2000 on a commission communication on a community support plan to combat doping in sport, and the last major initiative was the public hearing organised by our committee just last november, entitled 'doping: an obstacle to the ideal of sport', to which a large number of experts were invited and gave their views. this public hearing followed the olympic games in athens, which once again demonstrated that the use of banned substances in sport is, unfortunately, still a real and worsening phenomenon. it is worth noting that at the athens olympics we had 22 cases of athletes being found positive for doping, twice as many as in sydney. the oral question on the motion for a resolution is the result of these previous initiatives and of the serious concern in our committee at the extent to which the use of prohibited substances to enhance athletic performance has now become widespread. the problem is twofold. on the one hand, the use of these substances is contrary to the ideals of sport as set out in the olympic charter for sport. the spirit of friendship, solidarity, goodwill, all the values which make sport a social, cultural and educational activity, are clearly incompatible with doping, which is aimed at deception, enrichment and fleeting glory. on the other hand, doping is dangerous to the health of athletes, who resort to banned substances, often knowing the risks involved. i would like to stress here that the use of chemicals is not only by professional athletes but also by a large number of amateurs. according to a recent survey by the european commission, 6% of young people who exercise in gyms, or more than 4 million young people, use 'pharmaceutical' substances, obviously with the aim of improving performance. we believe that there should be coordinated action by the member states to develop common methods of control and certification of the use of these substances as 'pharmaceutical' and it should be borne in mind that many of these substances are also sold via the internet. it would also be appropriate to place labels on widely sold preparations which clearly indicate that they are anabolic substances. i think we are all agreed on these points, ladies and gentlemen. we all share the conviction that concrete action is needed to deal with this dramatic phenomenon. whereas the issue of doping is primarily a matter of public health, whereas the constitutional treaty provides the appropriate legal basis for the design and implementation of community action, and whereas, according to a eurobarometer survey, four out of five citizens believe that the european union should take action to combat doping; calls on the commission to inform us of the initiatives it intends to take today to combat the use of banned substances in sport; · how does it intend to inform the european public, and in particular young people involved in amateur sport, of the serious risks posed by the use of prohibited medicinal substances? · how does it intend, in particular, in cooperation with the member states, to demonstrate these risks through education, given that awareness-raising among young people, who are also the most vulnerable group, starts in school? · does the commission intend to fund research programmes under the seventh framework programme to find new and more effective methods of detecting the use of prohibited medicinal substances? · how does it intend to cooperate with the world anti-doping agency (wada), the council of europe and the world health organization, as well as with the member states, to ensure the success of the necessary actions? ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today we are asking the european commission to act immediately so that we can see an improvement in the current situation.
member of the commission. mr president, i have been asked by commissioner figeľ to represent him here this morning. he very much regrets that he is unable to be here himself. let me start by saying that the fight against doping remains a major concern for the commission and one that we are determined to address. the commission has taken this task very seriously and has promoted initiatives within its areas of responsibility. however, the european community treaty clearly does not provide for harmonisation in this specific area and, therefore, our actions will have to be guided by the legal framework within which we operate. in this difficult task, we thank the european parliament for its continued support, and in particular its committee on culture and education, which has been following this issue very closely. doping has been on the commission’s agenda for some time. in 1998, the european council invited the commission to submit a community support plan to combat doping in sport. the support plan formed the basis for pilot projects for a period of two years on the fight against doping between 2000 and 2002. around half of these projects concerned research, the other half information and education. the european parliament actively supported this plan. three of the pilot projects concerned the world anti-doping agency. an external evaluation, carried out by an independent consultancy, gave a favourable opinion on the type of actions undertaken. the pilot projects were a positive and encouraging network-building exercise for all those involved. secondly, apart from co-financing pilot projects, the commission financed three studies on doping-related issues. thirdly, the commission continues to liaise closely with international organisations in this field, in particular the council of europe. in addition to these actions, important work has also been carried out by dg research. the commission is pleased to see that parliament continues to have a strong interest in this topic. for instance, the hearing of 29 november 2004 organised by parliament’s committee on culture was a major event during which representatives of the sport movement made encouraging statements. at the hearing, mr figeľ underlined that, provided that appropriate funding could be made available, action could be envisaged in three fields: research, information and education. these proposals would represent a natural sequel to the work undertaken by the commission in 2000-2002. this is the way forward, given the absence of a specific legal basis to fight doping in sport. it would be premature to present more concrete proposals in the current environment, given the fact that these proposals depend on the budgetary situation. subject to the ratification of the constitutional treaty, the commission will have a basis – the new article iii-282 – to develop the european dimension in the field of sport. in particular, it would enable us to promote initiatives on the moral and physical integrity of young sportspeople. it is, however, important to prepare the implementation of this new provision carefully. the commission is committed to working closely with all interested parties in order to meet this challenge. what can be done in order to lay the groundwork for the constitution’s eventual entry into force? to answer that, let me return to the points that mr figeľ made at the hearing of 29 november 2004. the first point mr figeľ mentioned referred to actions in the field of education. here, substantial contributions would already be possible on the basis of areas for which the community is already responsible. around half of the anti-doping pilot projects that received community funding 2000-2002 were education-based. we are currently examining the possibility of integrating doping-related issues into the commission’s activities in the field of education. the second point related to actions in the field of information. in fact, amongst the three studies on doping carried out in 2000-2001, one looked at the possibilities for a pan-european anti-doping campaign. this drew on experience from campaigns of this nature carried out in some member states. therefore, substantial preparatory work is already available. but it is important to note that such an initiative could not possibly be carried out without an autonomous, earmarked financial instrument. mr figel’s third point dealt with actions in the field of research. there is already material to build on in this area. the commission has helped to foster network-creation between eminent specialists in the field. in the absence of a specifically dedicated financial instrument, it may be possible to integrate anti-doping research more firmly and more visibly into existing commission activities. funding has been provided by the commission via its research budget, including the recent cafdis and hardop projects. we now have to start looking to the future. this is why mr figel’ has initiated discussions with mr potočnik to see whether there is room for synergies between the work of our respective services. finally, the commission will continue to liaise with international organisations and to support the role played by the world anti-doping agency. the commission believes that the relevant players have a moral duty to join this fight. to conclude, i would like to thank the european parliament for its continued support. it will remain crucial for the commission’s current and future work in the field of sport and will play a key role to ensure the well-needed progress in the fight against doping.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative of the european parliament, expressed in the motion for a resolution by the committee on education and culture on anti-doping, is an important step forward and a direct appeal to all the relevant bodies to combat the phenomenon more effectively and efficiently. i am optimistic about the future because my great sensitivity to the war against the scourge that threatens our youth, which has been the subject of questions and interventions in the past, is now being echoed among my colleagues. we must not forget that doping is not just a problem for professional sportsmen. on the contrary, it is a threat that is constantly growing in size, both because of the continuous expansion of the range of recipients to include amateurs and young people worldwide, and because of the emergence of new sophisticated products, which are distributed through various means that are constantly multiplying, such as gyms, the internet, pharmacies and the general mail. i would remind you that the turnover from the trafficking of anabolic substances is over 2 billion euros a year in europe and about 6 billion euros a year worldwide. the european commission must intensify its cooperation with the relevant bodies and support a mechanism to combat the problem, which will include the necessary research, proper information, education, the promotion of clean sport, aimed at protecting public health and defending the sporting ideal. the treaty establishing the constitution provides the means for achieving this objective more effectively, and the european union must take account of the problem in the formulation and implementation of all policies falling within its competence. the european union must act immediately and not forget this great scourge of youth, which threatens children all over the world. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the cause of the great problem of the use of banned substances in sport is the commercialisation of sport within the capitalist mode of production, which is aimed at increasing the profits of monopoly business groups, the assumption, in other words, that the athlete can be a professional, and therefore there is professional sport. when the sports team is a business, victory at all costs becomes for the athlete and the team what the market demands for the advertising and sale of the products of the business groups, that is, the increase of their profits. children and young people are being exploited in a brutal way. the large number of pharmaceutical products in supermarkets is characteristic, where they are freely available and poison every moral value of sport, but also have particularly serious, painful effects on the mental and physical health of young people. i would like to point out in particular the hypocrisy in international organizations and their relations with the big business groups so that many dozens of drugs are not banned and are allowed to be used in sport. in our view, sport is a social good and cannot be reduced to the logic of profit. we need a change in sports policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting activities are not restricted to the most restrictive sporting activities. finally, let me say this: as long as this general anti-people policy, motivated by profit and the competitiveness of capital, continues, the effects will be painful for youth and sport.
i'm the editor. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the present oral question from the committee on culture and the following motion for a resolution on the draft unesco convention on cultural diversity is a result of the keen interest that our committee has in the progress of the negotiations on this important treaty text. the unesco draft convention follows up on the unesco universal declaration on cultural diversity of november 2002, which was a positive step towards international cooperation but has proved inadequate to the threats facing cultural diversity today, due to the intense globalisation of the market for cultural goods and services. the unesco convention aims to protect and promote the diversity of cultural content and artistic expression through appropriate measures and aims to facilitate the development of cultural policies as well as to encourage wider international cultural exchanges. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we believe that the draft convention marks an important effort to address the challenges facing cultural diversity from globalisation and international trade policy. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty on european union, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty on european union. this is a one-way street for europe, given the dominance of european markets today, for example, by american television and film producers. i would simply point out that american productions account for between 60% and 90% of the audiovisual markets of the eu member states, while the corresponding european share of the american market is only about 1-2%. but this is also the context in which the efforts of a limited number of non-european states - mainly in the english-speaking world - are aimed at weakening the proposed unesco convention. we must therefore resist the pressure of these few but powerful states so that the final text of the convention clearly defines the right of the contracting member states to develop, maintain and implement policies and legislation aimed at promoting and protecting cultural diversity and media pluralism. it is vital that all attempts to nullify or weaken these rights in any way through this convention are successfully countered. given that there are different views on the content of the convention even within the union, the member states should make every effort to coordinate their positions both among themselves and with the community. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. we therefore insist that the european union and its member states, in the process of negotiating and concluding this convention, must do nothing that would harm cultural diversity or undermine the ability of governments to support cultural diversity. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. we also believe that the convention should recognise the extremely important role of public services, and in particular public broadcasting, in the effort to protect, support and develop cultural diversity. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the continuing presence of the european commission in the negotiations and taking into account the european parliament's keen interest in the progress of the negotiations and its institutionally guaranteed right to be promptly and fully informed at all stages of the process of negotiating and concluding international agreements, calls on the commission to inform parliament of the progress made on the content and timing of the negotiations; parliament asks when exactly the text is expected to be ready for adoption by the general assembly of unesco in paris in october 2005. could the commission give us a detailed account of the different positions which have been taken in the negotiations?
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the western balkans reflects the overall us-eu push for further border changes, the competition between them over the division of the region and the eu's attempt to integrate it into euro-atlantic structures. the promotion of kosovo's autonomy, the debate on the revision of the dayton treaty, the reference to the dysfunction of the union of serbia and montenegro confirm the new cycle of border changes. the launching of such developments, however, will create a serious situation in the balkans, which may be turned into an explosive by the more intense struggle of the imperialists for control and division of the region. the balkan peoples have already paid with blood and destruction for the changes in borders due to imperialist interventions and wars by the usa - nato - eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is urgent and urgent to strengthen the common struggle of the peoples against the eu, the usa and nato, which are also the main responsible for the tragic situation faced by the peoples of the balkans.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, it is almost 30 years since thousands of nomads from western sahara fled to remote areas of neighbouring algeria, as a result of the conflicts that broke out between the rebels of western sahara and morocco after spain withdrew from its former colony. today the exiles, estimated at between 160 and 200 thousand, are settled in the algerian desert and are totally dependent on the offer of the international community, on the humanitarian aid provided to them through the united nations world food programme. a severe lack of humanitarian food aid and insufficient funding threaten the rather isolated old camps, which are struggling to withstand the harsh desert weather. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we ask the commission to keep at least the same level of aid to echo and to coordinate donors and european non-governmental organizations which already have a great deal of experience in the field of rescuing refugees. mr president, the international community cannot afford to remain indifferent. it must be proportionate to the extent of its responsibilities. the universality of the causes and extent of many problems, as well as the methods of dealing with them, is now beyond question. the joint resolution strengthens our conviction.
president of the council. mr president, like the report, your debate confirms and illustrates the very high sensitivity of your parliament to the problem of human rights. it reflects the great sensitivity of a very large majority of europeans to this problem. many europeans are actively involved in the promotion of human rights, in the fight for their defence, wherever in the world these rights are violated. the young people in particular are particularly interested in this promotion of human rights. i therefore believe that the message that we are sending out here through this report, but also through this debate, must first of all be a message to young people to show them that the europe that is being built is a europe that conveys its values of human rights in the world. i believe that the image of europe in the world is closely linked to this message of human rights. i also agree with those who have said that human rights cannot in themselves be the solution to all political problems. a human rights policy cannot replace a foreign policy. but any foreign policy worthy of the name, based on values, must give a prominent place to the defence of human rights. as president-in-office, that is the message i take from your parliament, from your report, and i think that all the member states, as well as the council, are attentive to your remarks. of course, there is no one solution and there is no easy solution. we cannot deal with different situations in the same way, but the basic message remains the same everywhere and it is this message, expressed by your parliament, that the council must also make its own in the policies it implements.
member of the commission. mr president, i too, on behalf of the commission - as mr schmit has just done on behalf of the council - would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the whole of the european parliament on this debate, in which those of us who have attended and participated can see the enormity of the challenges facing the defence and protection of human rights in the world today. we have covered everything from the fight against terrorism to the violation of minority rights, to a whole range of human rights violations at many levels. the honourable members have mentioned many countries and many regions of the world, practically from all continents, and we all agree on the enormous responsibility we have as representatives of the european institutions and the will of the citizens of europe to assume our duty and to make real our desire to protect human rights and to incorporate the defence of human rights in all our policies and, in particular, as the president of the council said, in foreign policy. i therefore confirm the commitment of the commission, and in particular mrs ferrero-waldner's commitment, to intensify the dialogue with parliament and the council in order to follow the lines set by european policy in this area and by the suggestions and recommendations made by the european parliament in its report, and i reiterate that, on each and every aspect requiring a reply, the commission will do so in writing and will be available to you as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the situation of the roma in the european union.
mr president, the communist party of greece is opposing the report with the false title "modernising social protection to develop quality health care", because it includes reactionary assessments and targets for further promoting the commercialization of health, the enlargement of the private business groups that control the health care delivery sectors and the production of medicine to increase their profits with painful consequences for public health and the removal of popular income. the patient is a customer. there is no medical policy at all. the health and safety regulations in the workplace are subtle. on an annual basis, 40% of the health services provided are covered by the income of the employees. health is increasingly becoming part of the european union's general anti-people policy. the responsibility for health protection is being privatized and the market for health services is being fully liberalised in the wake of sweeping changes in industrial relations and social security, such as the organization of working time, the raising of retirement ages, the reduction of pensions, etc. health should not be a commodity. it must be provided equally and free of charge in high quality to all people exclusively by the state. the pharmaceutical and biomedical technology sectors, production and marketing must be state-owned and operated under social control.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: groundwater is a unique natural resource of immense value, which must be protected more effectively. we believe that clear criteria for assessing the quality of water and a common european denominator are needed to make these criteria comparable. we therefore support the need to gradually develop a common european policy for their protection, which also takes account of the specific characteristics of each region. we attach great importance to the compromise amendment we signed with other political groups on article 6. we hereby declare our desire for strong protection. the application of article 6 should not be limited to indirect discharges into groundwater. we also support the need for member states to draw up a list of pollutants of particular importance to specific river basins. in the absence of a european definition of what constitutes best practice for agriculture, we ask the member states to carry out additional controls in this area to prevent pollution. at the same time, farmers should be supported in their quest for a cleaner environment through rural development programmes, so that the objectives of both the water framework directive and the groundwater framework directive are achieved. we also suggest that member states report and evaluate in the meantime the measures taken to prevent pollution. this can help to improve prevention and avoid irreversible consequences. the emphasis on prevention, the strict protection of groundwater and the avoidance of its deterioration in quality are a necessity and an investment for future generations. that is why i cannot understand people who say that we have no money to invest in the future, in the environment and in our children.
in writing. the pasok group in the european parliament votes in favour of the roma resolution. the fight against social exclusion and discrimination against roma in europe, on the basis of today's resolution, must be a priority for the institutions of the european union and the member states. at the same time, it points out that the member states in the union have different definitions of ethnic, national, religious minorities and population groups within their borders, based on their laws and/or international treaties (as in the case of greece), which in no way can be considered to be challenged or affected by this resolution.
mr president, i should like to congratulate you on the sensitivity with which you have just spoken about the 60 years since the end of fascism, since the genocide of europeans and especially of the jews. but the month of may also brings to mind another genocide of a predecessor of hitler, kemal ataturk, who, entering samsun on may 19, 1919, slaughtered half a million pontius. historians of that time write that the black sea turned red while hills of heads were in the squares. i think it is a matter of sensitivity to condemn this fact for which there was no nuremberg as there was for hitler. to show the world that we, a free europe, think, know and remember all those who created these crimes against peoples. the memory of the ponds must be celebrated. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to have a day of remembrance for the pontic peoples, as well as for the armenians. it's a matter of justice, it's a matter of sensitivity.
mr president, in the committee which i have the honour of chairing we have had many interesting discussions. i would like to congratulate mr hegyi again today on his excellent report on the protection of the cinematographic heritage, which is the result - as has been said - of his knowledge of cinema. the european cinema, the darling of european culture, has produced thousands of films over the past 100 years, which are unique cultural monuments. good conservation, saving these creations, is equivalent to preserving the memory of our culture, image and history. through these films it is much easier for us to understand the evolution and progress of life on our continent and beyond. it is therefore important that the european union today takes an initiative, even in the form of a recommendation, to the member states, which makes the preservation of the film heritage a primary objective and, at the same time, proposes concrete and realistic measures to make it possible. this report rightly emphasizes the important role that national film archives have to play in the preservation of european films. member states should give serious consideration to the implementation of a system of compulsory deposit of new film producers in their cinemas. member states should take appropriate measures to ensure the collection, cataloguing, conservation, restoration and access to this heritage. this will not only lead to the preservation of old films but also to the creation of jobs. i believe that this recommendation is a start. finally, it is particularly positive that the views of parliament and the council are identical on this subject and it is interesting that two journalists - mrs reding and mr hegyi - are taking the lead. the decision to approve the proposal for a recommendation at first reading brings us one step closer to its implementation so that effective action can be taken as soon as possible to preserve the film heritage. the 20th century has been defined as the century of the culture of the image. i hope and believe that the 21st century can be the century of knowing history through the image of civilization.
madam president, there is no doubt that we must defend ourselves and ensure security in ports as well as airports. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way out of the present crisis. i myself have witnessed as a journalist the great piracy of the cruise ship achille lauro off piraeus, and i have seen people's limbs cut off and floating in the water. terrorism is a terrible thing. but equally terrible is the terrorism where governments gain a foothold and commit crimes against civil liberties. the citizens fear for their lives from terrorism and fear for freedom from cameras watching them on the streets, in the ports, in the airports, in the hotels, everywhere. the esprs is monitoring phone calls. citizens are being monitored by credit cards, by surveillance. so we have terrorophobia and terrorism. so let's protect the citizen. all this money that we give to terrorism, a billion euros we gave to the olympic games, we could have spent it in another way and we could have prevented the fanaticism and the extremes that ultimately lead to terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown that the means of transport have been the target of terrorist acts in recent years: trains, buses, planes, ships and their means of transport. memories of terrorist attacks, such as the one in madrid, remain fresh in our minds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the proposal for a directive is designed to achieve this. most of the measures introduced by the directive are satisfactory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety standards are not exceeded. the successful example of the athens olympic games, where innovative security measures were implemented, i think should be taken into account by the member states and informed about these measures. i come from a country with hundreds of islands and ports, which is geographically on the outskirts of europe, in a sensitive area, and i believe that the european union must give priority to programmes for the major needs and the completion of infrastructure on these islands, which are often the hotbeds of the smuggling of people and objects.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my political group as a whole is totally opposed to the european commission's proposal. the commission is also strongly critical of the report adopted by the majority of the employment committee, which unfortunately agrees with the commission's proposal on most issues. we reject the commission's proposal because it perpetuates the opt-out and strengthens social dumping. it further fuels the unilateral power of employers in the name of flexibility for enterprises. it weakens existing levels of protection for tens of millions of workers and the balance of their families. it completely relaxed the existing rules on working time laid down in the 1993 directive. the commission proposal allows the maximum working week to be increased to 65 hours, whereas the current directive and the international labour organisation convention already provide for a maximum working week of 48 hours in 1919. we're going back 85 years! the reference period for flexible working hours is also extended from four to twelve months by removing the requirement that there be prior collective bargaining and agreement. the employers - private and public - are thus allowed to manage unilaterally and abusively, by law or regulation, the time of employment of workers, without the workers themselves. the clear case law of the european court of justice is also circumvented by the false invention that the duty time is divided into active and inactive. the member states or employers themselves can say that eight hours of idle time equals 0.8 hours of active time - a travesty. the court of justice of the european communities also ordered a compulsory rest period immediately after the news. how does the commission interpret this 'immediately'? one day, three days, three weeks? i am very much afraid that the commission's proposal is nothing but a stab in the back for tens of millions of workers, particularly in the health and service sectors. but it's also a risk to the health and safety of all of us. commissioner, would you like to have a surgeon operate on you after 30 hours on call? would you like to meet a truck driver on the road who drives 30 hours straight?
the proposal for a directive on the modification of the organization of working time which is now before us, madam president, is the product of a combination of theoretical views on the organization of working time and an attempt to reconcile the interests of employers and workers. the real situation and needs of each member state are set within a general framework which each partner assesses from his own point of view and finds unpleasantly narrow and anything but safe. but the rapporteur, mr cercas, who deserves our congratulations, and the shadow rapporteur for the european people's party, mr silva peneda, as well as all my colleagues in the committee on industry, the committee on women's rights and, above all, the committee on employment, have tried in good faith, albeit with different views, to bring the two systems together. the report now before us and the amendments to it - not the commission proposal, mr papadimoulis - do not accept the extension, end the eight-hour exception, do not accept the commission proposal for a maximum of 65 hours, guarantee the 48-hour limit and, in any case, propose to guarantee both working conditions and safety, and the need for leisure and lifelong learning. the cercas proposal restores respect for the case law of the ecj both as regards the limitation of working time and as regards the time of standby which is expressly referred to as working time. it also respects the principle of subsidiarity and enshrines social dialogue as a regulatory factor. the annual calculation of working time is a compromise solution, but it will unfortunately have consequences for low-income workers who live off overtime during peak periods. as regards the issues affecting women working in families, i note that while the european commission has forgotten about them, parliament is asked to vote in favour of amendment no 12 which stresses that employers must take account of the needs of working and family life throughout life and amendment no 22 which requires the commission to state ... (the president interrupts)
member of the commission. madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, although the commission cannot share parliament's views on all points, the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs shows the same determination to seek a broad consensus that protects workers while providing the necessary flexibility. before i go into the details of the individual amendments, let me make a few more general remarks. first of all, i would point out that the proposal for this directive is a proposal for an amendment to a directive, that is to say, a directive which has been in existence for 10 years and which requires amendment at certain points, not least because the text itself envisaged amendment. i would also like to emphasize that this is a directive on health and safety at work. it is not a directive aimed at reorganising working time, but a directive designed to protect workers while maintaining the necessary flexibility required by the lisbon strategy and, i would say, by modern life itself. this directive operates in a very complex context, including the context of demographic ageing, which requires a much better coherence between working life and society. as i have already stressed, the directive is a directive on the protection of working time and i must say that there is no doubt that working time has an overall impact on safety and health at work and at a time when we are considering extending the total working life because the demographic development of society requires it, it is undoubtedly necessary that people live to the end of this period in good health. the discussion that took place touched on a number of basic proposals, and so let me deal with them in more detail. i shall begin by proposing to extend the reference period used to calculate the maximum average working time, which is fixed at 48 hours per week. as you know, the commission proposes to maintain the current situation, i.e. to keep the reference period of four months as the 'standard' reference period, with the possibility of extending it to 12 months by means of collective agreements. however, the commission wants to give all member states the same conditions, regardless of their systems of relations between the social partners, and therefore proposes that the reference period may also be extended by legislative means. i am pleased to note that the european parliament's position is not very different from that of the commission. the parliament's proposal improves the guarantees associated with this extension. i can therefore inform you that the commission accepts this proposal largely with reservations on only one point, namely the exclusion of the possibility of extending the reference period by legislative means where the worker is already covered by a collective agreement. the commission considers that the preference for collective bargaining should not lead to the rejection of a legislative solution in cases where a reference period has not been discussed or an agreement has not been reached. as regards 'the standby time', the commission cannot accept parliament's position, although it understands its concerns. i want to make this question clear. the commission proposal has the fundamental objective of ensuring legal certainty. i do not need to remind you that the problem arises from the interpretation of the definition of 'working time' by the court of justice in luxembourg. however, by not considering the so-called 'inactive period' as part of working time for the purposes of occupational safety and health, the commission leaves member states free to adopt measures which, in their view, better protect the safety and health of workers. i believe that the parliament's proposal contained in amendment no 10 does not provide the same level of legal certainty and could leave room for further judgments which would further increase legal uncertainty. however, i fully understand the concerns expressed by parliament in its draft opinion. the commission will therefore adapt its proposal to better protect workers on standby duty. it shall not be permitted to count the period of inactivity into 11 hours of daily rest and 24 hours of weekly rest. i now wish to address the pressing issue of individual exemption. the european parliament and the commission both critically assess the concrete application of this provision. however, there are differences of opinion on the future of this provision. the commission proposes a review, while parliament calls for the opt-out to be lifted three years after the directive enters into force. the commission cannot accept this proposal in its present form. but she is willing to discuss it and find the most appropriate compromise with lawmakers who are divided on the issue. i am aware that this is a very political question and a question of principle. in this context, the commission will continue its intensive dialogue with parliament. the commission's position on the individual amendments is as follows: the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 3, 12, 13 and 17 in their entirety. these are changes that improve or clarify the text. one amendment introduces provisions to improve work-life balance, which i believe is essential. the commission may adopt amendments nos 1, 4, 8, 11, 16, 18, 19, 24 and 29 in their entirety, in part or subject to recasting. i would like to draw particular attention to proposals no 16 and no 18 on substitute leave and to proposal no 19 on the reference period. the commission must reject amendments nos 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25 to 28 and 30 to 52. these include the individual exemption proposals i have already mentioned. i have indicated that the commission intends to seek a compromise solution. other amendments concern issues not addressed in the commission's original proposal, such as article 17 (1) on the exemption for managers. in conclusion, i would like to thank the european parliament for the quality of its debate on this proposal. thanks to the dialogue between the commission and parliament, i can confidently say that the final version of the directive, which is the symbol of a social europe, will achieve even better the objective of protecting workers' health and safety, without compromising the flexibility of working time adjustment that our businesses need. it will therefore contribute to consolidating a strengthened and modernised european social model.
the agenda calls for voting time. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
member of the commission. mr president, while regretting the outcome of the vote, the commission has taken note of the position expressed by the majority of members. in line with the framework agreement between parliament and the commission, the matter will be raised in the college of commissioners, with a view to a very careful examination of the commission's position in these circumstances. mr president, the commission will shortly inform parliament in an appropriate manner of the results of these considerations.
the report shall be referred back to the committee responsible in accordance with rule 52 (3). the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. they will continue after the solemn assembly.
the bureau is considering the matter. a decision will be taken in any case.
in writing. the eu directive on enhancing port security is the prelude to the directive on 'liberalising port services', the strike on workers' wage, labour and social rights and the selling-out of ports to shipowners, industrialists, monopoly groups to increase capital profits. the directive on terrorism creates ghetto workplaces, strengthens repressive mechanisms and attacks the collective and individual freedoms of workers in ports and on ships. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also called for the introduction of a european tax on the sale of goods and services. we call on workers to act together against the eu's anti-people policy, to fight for the defence and expansion of their rights, for radical changes, for ports that will be people's property for the benefit of people's prosperity.
mr president, it is very important that the right conditions are put in place so that climate change policy and the kyoto protocol can start to produce concrete results. and i agree with previous speakers that the united states of america, china, india, brazil and other countries should be involved. but it is equally important to give the right direction so that policy and progress on reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be mapped out and addressed over time. and i was pleased that the commissioner spoke about a strategy beyond 2012. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. sustainable development cannot be achieved without the development of new environmental technology and innovation, particularly in the transport and energy sectors. it is necessary to promote this policy not only at union level but also at global level. the seminar of government experts should also include the issue of promoting environmental technologies and innovation. mitigation and adaptation measures should be based on addressing future challenges in addition to cost-effectiveness. to this end, the workshop is useful in identifying the factors which are currently causing the greatest environmental burden and consequently promoting the necessary environmental technologies and innovations in order to mitigate these harmful effects.
member of the commission. i am taking over this question on behalf of my colleague, mr mandelson. as a member of the wto, china has benefited from the elimination of textile quotas since 1 january 2005. import figures for the first months of 2005 show that chinese exporters have availed themselves of the opportunities offered by the elimination of quotas. taking account of serious concerns voiced by european textile manufacturers, trade unions and some member states, the commission opened investigations on 29 april, covering a number of products, to determine whether market disruption and disorderly development of trade have taken place as defined under the relevant community legislation in accordance with china’s protocol of accession to the wto. following these investigations, the commission may decide to open formal consultations with china. in that case china will be under an obligation to limit exports to the community to certain specific levels, with a growth rate of, in general, 7.5%. such measures may be effective for a period ending on 31 december, or for one year, depending on when the consultations have been requested. they may be reapplied if need be.
member of the commission. the commission is actively defending the interests of the european textiles industry, but the commission wants to base its actions on facts and the rules of the wto. the guidelines that were adopted and published in early april provide for swift procedures for analysing the question of whether or not safeguard measures are warranted in response to a surge in chinese textile and clothing imports. these guidelines stipulate that, if justified by the facts, the commission may open an investigation with a view to analysing whether the conditions for imposing safeguard measures are fulfilled. on 29 april, the commission opened an investigation of nine categories of textiles and clothing imports. the commission has stated that it will do its utmost to complete this investigation earlier than the maximum period provided for by the guidelines. in parallel, the commission will hold informal consultations with the chinese authorities with a view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution that would provide relief to the european industry and avoid a resort to safety measures. if these talks are not successful, the commission reserves its right to request formal consultations with china via the wto and, possibly, impose safeguard measures, if warranted by the facts. there have been requests for the application of the emergency procedure provided for by the guidelines. this would mean going directly to formal consultations with china via the wto without an investigation, if there is evidence of irreparable damage to the eu industry in the absence of such a course of action. the commission’s services are analysing these requests.
member of the commission. the facts being taken on board by the commission at present relate to the import data which became available after the first three months of this year. the commission awaited the import data rather than relying on the licensing arrangements. the second question that the member asks about the currency situation is something that is not being considered under the current wto rules. the united states, in a different context, has being referring to the currency situation in china, namely the chinese peg, which some united states commentators are saying is compounding the situation regarding exports from china. the question of currencies is a totally unrelated matter to the investigation under wto rules. there are different expert analyses regarding what should or should not be done about the chinese currency. it is not currently being considered under the rules of the wto and this particular question.
madam president, no one disputes that china is an important player in the global trading system. i am also one of those who believe that it is better for china to be part of the disciplines of the world trade organization than to be a free and anarchic operating system. but i would like to point out three things: first, customs cooperation should have been established in good time. this would significantly restrict imports of chinese counterfeit products and more generally ensure china's compliance with wto rules and disciplines. secondly, what is the effectiveness of the december 2004 regulation and thirdly, what is the state of play of the safeguard investigation concerning imports of textile products of chinese origin?
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy for his reply to me, and i would also like to thank his colleagues. i want to say this: i would first of all like to conclude from the reply that mr mccreevy and the commission are always open to dialogue and that is a very, very positive point. secondly, as regards my reference to article 1.5 of the constitution, i am of course aware that the constitution has not yet been ratified, but the constitution introduces the principle of dialogue and cooperation, which i see mr mccreevy has accepted.
member of the commission. of course, the commission is still open to discussion on this matter with the greek authorities. there have been some discussions at the level of my services and i have had meetings with members of the greek government. of course we would like to bring this matter to a conclusion, but i must point out to the honourable member and to the greek authorities that we have been very specific in our request to the greek authorities. they know what they are required to do. we have proceeded on that particular basis.
commissioner, this is a very dangerous issue for the majority shareholder. if it spreads across europe, then it means the media is being manipulated. right, the government has problems with the press in greece and wants to control it. we have at the moment privileged conditions for foreign companies. the minister responsible said it: "don't worry about what we do in greece, foreign companies benefit". we want greek companies to have the same opportunities as companies in other countries. if this continues, i think the great element of justice is bent. so protect the greek companies from the government's position of being a tyrant.
member of the commission. under the third community support framework for greece, there are two operational programmes – ‘environment’ and ‘attica’ – that include actions relating to the habitation of urban sites as well as support for leisure parks and green areas. according to the information currently available to the commission, the greek authorities have not proposed the cofinancing of a metropolitan park on the site of the old hellinikon airport, nor has such a project been approved under the two above-mentioned operational programmes. as you will know, the choice of project proposals is the responsibility of the greek authorities. it is still possible, under the current financial perspective, for the greek authorities to propose the above-mentioned projects if they considered that appropriate. with regard to the last part of the question: yes, there are metropolitan parks in many major cities of the european union.
commissioner, in our country you are known as the 'iron lady' who makes decisions on programmes, on suspensions of payments. so you, the "iron lady", must confirm your reputation by helping the greek government to see the reality. once the most beautiful city in the world, athens with its parthenon is now a vast cement city. if you go up to the parthenon, you'll see only cement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not build apartment blocks, we do not have a green axis throughout athens. help athens, help the mayors, you will be the model for greece. we need the park.
member of the commission. it was more a comment than a suggestion. tomorrow, we are meeting with the representative of the greek government. on other occasions also, i will share your views with the greek authorities.
madam president, the realization of the project of the largest metropolitan park in an urban area in europe, larger than hyde park, is being done in consultation and cooperation with the mayors of the wider area of hellenic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i do not think that mr karatzaferis would wish, as far as the financing of the project is concerned, for resources to be transferred from the greek periphery to this particular area of athens.
member of the commission. it is much broader than just a review of the third community support framework. i should like to tell mr papadimoulis what stage we are at. as you know, the greek authorities provided at the due time a description of the entire management and control systems of the erdf established in greece. as a follow-up, in october 2003 an audit – carried out by the services of the directorate-general for regional policy – confirmed the existence of serious deficiencies in the systems and the management process. we agreed an action plan with the greek authorities; the final deadline for the implementation of the actions under the plan was the end of september 2004. the deliverables of the action plan have been analysed. the conclusion was that certain types of operations that were cofinanced and certain operations that were carried over from the second to the third community support framework do not justify the contribution from the erdf. we also confirmed the existence of serious failings in the management and control systems. as the greek authorities did not investigate the irregularities and did not make the necessary financial corrections, the directorate-general informed them of the possible suspension by the commission of interim erdf payments for specific measures of the operational programmes that were affected by the above-mentioned irregularities. many meetings took place between january and may 2005 and, throughout this process, the commission stressed the urgency of arriving at an overall solution that would allow payments to continue on a sound basis in the future. in response to your question, the amount of any correction will have to take full account of the audit findings, but the consequences in terms of loss of community funds cannot be quantified at this stage. i can say that flat-rate corrections will be applied, in compliance with the regulations. also, given that the discussions that have taken place have not led to an agreement so far, the commission is currently proceeding with measures that may lead to suspension decisions. nevertheless, we shall keep open the possibility of continued dialogue to find a solution. the next meeting with the greek authorities will take place tomorrow. when the debate with the greek authorities is closed i will be able to inform you in writing what programmes have been affected and to what extent. as far as the modification of the third community support framework is concerned, the commission has been informed that the greek ministry of finance intends to submit an application in the course of the year. so far, however, the commission has received no proposals for transfers of funds between programmes.
commissioner, i understand that there is an ongoing negotiation on the amount of the cuts which has not been completed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. i am sorry, but at this stage i am unable, in terms of the information available to me before tomorrow’s meeting, to say anything more concrete. however, i can repeat the promise that if we manage to find a solution by tomorrow - which is my dream - then i would inform you immediately. if not, you would of course be informed as to the size of the suspension, but at this stage i am unable to provide you with any data.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mrs hübner, for recalling the informal agreement reached in the autumn of 2003 with the then greek government on a legislative arrangement covering the problems posed by the public works act. i would also like to thank her for agreeing, at the beginning of 2004, with the then greek government, the action plan on improving the management system of the community support framework. but i'd like to ask her something after thanksgiving. what happened next on the issue of implementing the action plan with the new government after march 2004? i would like to hear from the commissioner.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the fruit and vegetable sector is one of the most dynamic and there is a fair debate about it. it represents 17% of agricultural products and takes only 4% of agricultural resources. at the same time, it employs a significant proportion of the rural and labour force. the draft proposal for the revision of the common organization of the market by the commission is already in place and i think it favours the processors but not the small and mediumsized farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, it is proposed to decouple the production subsidy for fruit and vegetables and it is agreed that the mid-term review of the cap, which is based on decoupling the subsidy from production, should be adopted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the producer groups are praised, but at the same time they are considered to have not worked well and it is found that only 40% of production has passed through them and they have absorbed only 25% of the resources. in fact, i would say, it is not being said that the producer groups act as intermediaries between farmers and the commercial industry, favouring the latter who obtain cheap raw materials. but the proposal for a cofinanced fund is not a solution either, since farmers will have to pay the price of the various crises and the consequences of the wto. in the light of the recent developments in the agricultural sector, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables, which will be based on the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, it is with concern and with some concern that we have been informed that you will postpone the submission of legislative proposals on fruit and vegetables for the next two years. if that statement or intention is correct, then i believe that you are deliberately leaving the common agricultural policy (cap) for fruit and vegetables out of the review, exposing these products and producers to a multitude of risks, both financial and international. the report by mrs garcia, which i congratulate, is a good basis for your proposals to be tabled by the autumn at the latest. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. firstly, the commission should immediately propose realistic proposals for producer groups under a simplified system and regime, in order to take account of the characteristics of each region and to ensure a balanced use of the resources available in the sector. secondly, there is scope for improving the thresholds for processed products, but any changes should not affect the existing balances between member states. i believe, commissioner, that your proposals for fruit and vegetables will not be limited to the adjustment or modification of processed products. thirdly, particular attention should be paid to your international negotiations. the low external protection of fruit and vegetables should already be taken into account in the specific arrangements for sensitive products and in the methodology regulation for ad valorem duty equivalents. the cap for fruit and vegetables, with its operational programmes, the existence of a fund and the compulsory formation of producer groups, is a model for the functioning of agricultural markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. you will have to eliminate unfair competition, help them to conquer new markets and help them to improve the production of quality products. you can!
mr president, the announcement of presidential elections for next july is not, at least for the time being, the necessary condition for consolidating political stability and democratization in the country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the european union should cooperate closely with the osce in the organisation and monitoring of the elections and increase humanitarian aid and financial support through the tacis programme and the generalised system of preferences. the central asian region cannot be a new arena of conflict between the great powers, the united states, russia and china, for the strategic control of energy resources. in the context of the fight against terrorism, central asia has become a host of new military bases and is being dangerously militarized. the european union has an interest in being the stabilizing force in the region. the strategy report adopted by the european union in 2002 for the period 2002-2006 for the countries of the region needs to be revised and enriched in the light of new data generated. and i believe and i call on the commission to prepare, even now without waiting for 2006, a new report on the strategy for the region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the development of the internal market, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption and the fight against fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament votes against the directive on the 'organisation of working time', because it is a revanchist attack by the eu, bourgeois governments and capital on the rights of the working class. the commission and the rapporteur's proposals aim to undermine working time by introducing two new conditions: (a) active waiting time and (b) inactive waiting time and further flexibility of working time to increase capital gains. the time defined as "inactive duty time" is not counted as working time, although the worker will be at the employer's disposal! so he opens pandora's box to blow up labor law. the definition of working time and the length of the working day have been issues of longstanding class conflicts between the working class and capital. the consequences for the working class are painful. more unpaid work, whenever and however the needs of capitalist production dictate, undermining of collective labour agreements, intensification of work, increase of accidents at work, deterioration of insurance and pension conditions, drastic restriction of free time for social action, disorganization of family life. the kke contributes to the reorganization and strengthening of the class orientation of the workers' movement for radical changes to meet the modern needs of the working-class family.
president of the council. the council will take note and do as i have just said.
president of the council. the council would first like to thank the honourable member for the information he has given on the violation of the fundamental rights of the greeks in georgia. in the political dialogue between the european union and georgia, the council has repeatedly expressed its concern about the need to improve the protection of human rights in this partner country. the union will continue to take all opportunities to raise its concerns about human rights in georgia, in particular in its cooperation with the osce, the council of europe and the un commission on human rights. on 17 january 2005, the secretary-general and high representative for the cfsp appointed mr michael matthiessen as his personal representative for human rights. the european union special representative for the south caucasus, mr talvitie, is also assisting georgia in the implementation of political and economic reforms, including in the areas of the rule of law, democratisation, human rights, good governance, development and poverty reduction. in its conclusions of 25 april, the council stressed the importance of these objectives and renewed its commitment to developing these various elements in the context of its relations, in particular the european neighbourhood policy. in drawing up and negotiating the european neighbourhood policy action plan between the european union and georgia, the european union will stress the need to improve the protection of human rights in georgia. the council therefore intends to follow very closely the development of the situation in the greek community and to raise the matter with the georgian authorities whenever it is appropriate to do so. the european parliament may also wish to raise this issue at the next meeting of the eu-georgia parliamentary cooperation committee, which i understand will take place on 13 and 14 june 2005.
mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. i agree with the framework of principles he has given us. the problem is not just the framework of principles: it is, in practice, what we can do in the european union to protect human and minority rights in georgia and around the world. what pressure and control mechanisms do we have as the european union to persuade or pressure the georgian authorities to respect the rights of the greek minority? why do i say that? because i have before me the report of the european union's special envoy for human rights in georgia, as you said, dated 12 april, in which he points out the human rights situation and, indeed, describes a very unpleasant situation for the greeks in georgia. what are we doing ? what are the tools we have in our relations with georgia? i think that's what matters today.
president of the council. first of all, i would say that community law must be applied in full by all member states. i believe that this is a duty which all member states have from the moment they become members of the european union. i would add that the community action programme against discrimination aims to promote measures to combat discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin. one of the priority areas identified in the 2004 work programme was specifically targeted at the integration of roma into the labour market. the aim is for all member states with roma minorities on their territory to include these minorities in their national labour market action programmes. i think it is a question of using the community instruments i mentioned earlier to encourage and induce the member states to deal in this way with the social integration of roma minorities.
president of the council. as the council has already indicated in its reply to question 1778 by mr rübig, the process of examining the commission's proposals led the council to adopt conclusions on nuclear safety and the safety of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste on 28 june. these conclusions reaffirm the determination of the community and its member states to maintain a high level of security. at the same time, it is necessary - and i quote these conclusions - to facilitate the choice of one or more instruments within the framework of the euratom treaty which can contribute more effectively to ensuring nuclear safety and the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste without excluding any instrument and in accordance with the principles of improving legislation. in the light of these conclusions, an action plan was developed in the second half of 2004. it is structured around three components: safety of nuclear installations; safety of spent fuel and radioactive waste management; and financing of the decommissioning of nuclear installations and the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. in this context, the luxembourg presidency drew up the work programme detailing the tasks to be carried out and set up the three expert groups responsible for the various aspects of this action plan. on the basis of this programme and taking into account the timetable of the various international bodies whose work is relevant to the tasks to be carried out, an overall report is envisaged by the end of 2006. i can assure you that luxembourg attaches the utmost importance to this matter. however, it is clear that there are minority blocks which do not allow us to move faster along this path.
president of the council. let us start with the euratom treaty. there have been initiatives outside the convention to call for a reform of the euratom treaty. i think it is time for a thorough reform of the treaty. but we know that this reform is an extremely difficult undertaking, since not all member states share the same approach to the development of the nuclear sector. some people think that the nuclear industry should simply not be developed. that is partly why we have remained in a deadlock. on the question of landfills, i have already told you that experts are in the process of discussing ways of ensuring that nuclear waste is disposed of in a better way. i can assure you that in the context of the work being done, the presidency will do everything possible to advance this matter, keeping in mind safety, security and maximum protection of the environment, but also of people.
president of the council. the criminal code is one of the six specific pieces of legislation mentioned by the commission in its october 2004 recommendation which, according to the conclusions of the european council of 16 and 17 december 2004, must be put into effect before the opening of accession negotiations. the union is informed of the decision of the turkish government to postpone the date of entry into force of this code. the turkish authorities indicated that the entry into force of the new penal code was now scheduled for 1 june 2005 instead of 1 april 2005. turkey stated its intention to take this opportunity to amend the text in order to improve the provisions on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. in the recent meeting of the association council with turkey, the european union referred to this important issue and encouraged turkey to review its arrangements to address the union's concerns in this area and to bring them into line with the copenhagen principles and criteria.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the penal code is properly applied, and i would like to ask the president-in-office whether he is aware of the progress made in the revision of the penal code, the directions it is taking and the timetable for its implementation. what specific demand do you have? have you set a timetable? will it be a serious issue for you before 3 october when considering turkey's criteria and obligations?
mr president, we all agree that the constitutional treaty introduces important institutional innovations in the field of external relations. we have referred to the creation of the post of foreign minister and also to the establishment of the european external action service. it would not be an exaggeration to say that these new institutions are creating in the european union the institutional embryo of the future common european foreign ministry. i am one of those who believe that in the field of common foreign policy the constitutional treaty could take bolder steps towards deepening these policies, extending the qualified majority and further strengthening the competence of the european parliament. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft treaty on european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. as regards the new institution of the european external action service, we must prepare its operation now so that we are ready when - as i hope - the constitutional treaty enters into force in november 2006. the time is not enough if we consider that they have important institutional and organizational issues to solve. the commission's proposal is a good one, and it is timely. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the coordination of the activities of the european investment bank and the european investment bank, which was adopted by the council on 16 december, is a very good one. one of the key issues is the strengthening of the advisory and supervisory role and the greater involvement of the european parliament, both now, at the preparatory stage, and after the european agency has been put into operation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the challenge of the hong kong conference is putting the wto's credibility, operational resilience and dynamism to the test. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first, the inability of major trading partners to reconcile the decline in their internal economic autonomy. secondly, the difficulty of decision-making due to the growing numbers of the wto, accompanied by the increase in heterogeneity. thirdly, the imbalance in trade liberalization between the advanced trading systems. the union has made the largest concessions by comparison, making the european market the most open in the world. fourthly, the reluctance of other international actors to take a leading role in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the extension and strengthening of the wto's multilateral regulatory framework, which is a strategy of the union, is limited by the principle of the specialisation of international organisations. this principle also sets the limits of the wto's evolution into both a world social policy organization and a world environmental organization. the proposal is therefore, in my view, to set up a new global architecture - an 'umbrella' - which would be based on the following pillars: - the wto, which promotes the efficient allocation of resources in a satisfactory way; - an international financial organization for international economic stability; - an international development organization for the international redistribution of resources and support for the development of poor countries; - an international environmental organization for the protection and improvement of the global environment and natural resources. the conditions of the globalised economy dictate a new overall regulation of the world economic system on the basis of a social and ecological market economy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
mr president, commissioner, we all welcomed the agreement of august 2004, which was largely the result of community initiatives, as a positive outcome. the final result, we hope, will justify this community effort and initiative. agriculture has emerged as the most important area of the negotiations, despite the fact that from the outset we insisted on a balanced participation of all aspects of the round with fair outcomes for all sectors and all partners. the final agreement should not, however, call into question any aspect of the recent reform of the common agricultural policy and should ensure equivalent commitments for all trading partners. the issue of market access for agricultural products, and in particular the technical aspects of the method for calculating ad valorem duty equivalents, proved to be a key point in the negotiations. technical commitments should be such as to ensure the viability of community products. the protection of agricultural indications and the integration of non-commercial aspects should not only be pursued but also be a precondition for the final agreement. these factors also determine the multifunctional role of european agriculture. cotton was highlighted as a major issue in the negotiations with the least developed countries. we hope that additional commitments for this product will be made to other trading partners. the report by javier moreno sánchez succeeded in striking a balance in his proposals for the wto negotiations. i would suggest, commissioner, that you follow the rapporteur's 'poetic principle'. it is argued that the interim agreement is a step on a path that does not exist but is made by walking. the objectives are pre-existing, however, and the possibilities for deviation cannot be unlimited.
mr president, commissioner, the liberalization of chinese exports from 1 january 2005 was hailed by many as a great victory for free trade. a few months later we are back to overprotection, both by the european union and the united states of america. many are even quick to call this commercial onslaught "chinese fever". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here we need to dwell on a fact: in the first quarter of 2005, china grew by 9.5%, driven by a 35% increase in exports, while expanding its foreign exchange reserves to just over usd 650 billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. today china is showing its real strength and its limitless potential in trade, commerce, exports, technology, especially in products whose raw material traditionally has a centuries-old history for this country of mysticism and the volcano that hides in its territory and is ready to explode. the european union must pay attention to this and be vigilant in its decisions concerning relations with china. why ? - first, nine categories of chinese products are currently under evaluation; - second, china is gaining more and more power on the world political stage; - third, the european union is china's most important trading partner and china is the european union's second most important partner. so we have strong ties with china; fourth, china can demonstrate its commitment to wto rules by improving its copyright laws to control counterfeiting; and fifth, on a related approach and at current rates, the wto estimates that in 2015 china will account for three-fifths of exports, a position it held for a millennium, from 500 to 1500 ad. i ask you, how will the european union deal with the giant yellow fever?
mr president, it is hypocritical and late in the day to be concerned about workers, about whether china is implementing its important wto commitments. the commission took the lead in signing the multilateral agreement and the wto agreement on the basis of which textile products are imported from china. the decline of the textile industry and cotton farming began in the member states of the european union many years before 1 january 2005 when the import of chinese textile products was allowed, with painful consequences for workers. the wto is an imperialist organization that serves the interests of multinationals and capital against the interests of workers. they set very strict conditions for china's accession to the wto, namely the opening of its markets, the liberalisation of markets, privatisation, so that they could exploit china's resources and workers. in return, china ensured the free movement of its textile products. the late interest in workers in the textile and other sectors is manifesting itself at a time of growing workers' indignation and struggles against the anti-people policy of the european union in the member states. it is obvious that this initiative is aimed at disorientating and appeasing the workers who intend to vote no to the european constitution. we also note that the warnings to restrict chinese imports come at a time of peak pressure from the united states of america and the european union on beijing to break the stable dollar-yuan exchange rate, i.e. the imperialist centers want china and other asian countries as a huge consumer market for their products and not as a competitor in international markets. the danger does not come from china but from the international competition of the imperialists. we are fighting for equal international economic relations, defending the right of peoples to choose their own path.
mr president, china's accession to the wto and its integration into the world economy is a very positive development. china is already one of the world's largest trading powers and its development has positive effects on the development of many other countries. however, there are indications and substantiated complaints that china is not fully implementing its obligations under the wto accession agreement. it maintains restrictions on internal trade and the distribution of goods; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. it also does not fully apply the principle of national treatment. there are also serious delays in the implementation of wto rules on the protection of intellectual, commercial and industrial property and on foreign investment. the result of all this is that european companies have less access to the chinese market and european exports are blocked, while the european market remains open. in order to avoid disruption of trade relations between the european union and china and to avoid the emergence of neo-protectionist voices, the commission is invited to take further initiatives to achieve a balanced effect on bilateral trade and to eliminate any unfair practices. the first best solution is to further open the chinese market to european exports of industrial and agricultural products and services while mitigating chinese export aggression in certain products, for example textiles today, cars tomorrow or other products. the application of the safeguard clauses provided for in the china accession agreement is a reasonable last resort, a reasonable ultimum remedium.
mr president, commissioner, we must define measures to protect the textile industry, measures to ensure the functioning of the market and trade, and measures to protect the consumer. these measures must be safeguarded by respect for international law and the rules of international trade, and more specifically by means of the protocol of accession of china to the wto. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that our strategy for the textile industry must be based on competitiveness, quality and consumer protection. in order to protect the consumer, i consider it necessary to introduce measures to inform the consumer of the product's characteristics by means of appropriate labelling, such as origin labelling, quality labelling, eco-labelling and, above all, labelling indicating the effect of the product on the consumer's health. for competitiveness and quality, i propose that research be stepped up and that it be directed: (c) research into the impact of products on the environment and consumer health. finally, as regards the commission's communication on the textile industry, which sets as a strategic objective the maintenance of the production chain in the euro-mediterranean countries so that no waste is permanently removed from these countries, i have to say the following: - first, we must help the smes established there to become more flexible and to respond better to consumer demands; - secondly, the commission should expressly commit itself to facilitating trade within the euro-mediterranean area by harmonizing customs duties as quickly as possible and not to be satisfied with the current bilateral intergovernmental agreements.
mr president, i should like to thank commissioner mandelson for the information he has given us and for the particular sensitivity he has shown in recent times to the great and serious problem of the textile industry. the commission has been sent statistics by the member states during the last period, which has shown the seriousness of the situation. the situation is critical in the member states and particularly in greece, if mr mandelson sees the data sent by the greek authorities in relation to the closure of small and mediumsized enterprises and in relation to the loss of jobs. i believe that the european commission's announcement of the guidelines is a good thing. i agree it's going in the right direction. it is positive that the commission has established the alert zones for each category of chinese textile products. i would say, however, that mr mandelson should review the expected duration of the commission's investigation, consider the duration of the informal consultation process with the chinese authorities. these periods, these durations, should be shortened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission promised to bring them last autumn, but unfortunately it has been too late.
in writing. we are voting against the shameful resolution which, using gebelist methods, falsifies and distorts history. the communists and the soviet union who were the pioneers in resistance, sacrifice and antifascist victory are being slandered by the same political forces that nurtured, supported or tolerated the rise of fascism. today, by calling the liberation of the countries of central and eastern europe by the red army a new occupation, they are politically supporting the overthrow of hitler's symbols, giving a political alibi to the partners of the eu and fascism in those countries. fascism was born out of capitalism itself. the attempt to falsify history is an attempt to poison the conscience of the younger generations so that they accept the crimes of imperialism today, not fight to overthrow it. the rampant anti-communist offensive will not stop the social development towards socialism. the message of anti-fascist victory is alive and well. it is linked to the united victorious struggle of the peoples against imperialist barbarity. we recall that, however powerful the fascist axis appeared, it did not avoid being crushed and the red flag with the hammer and sickle was hung in the reichstag, symbolizing the victory of socialism against it. the same fate awaits the unjust exploitative capitalist system.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the narrow strip of land on the west coast of africa has for many years been criticised by the international community for its systematic violation of human rights and for its political governance. although political parties have been formally legalized since 1991 and a constitution has been in place since 1992, major international organizations, the united nations, the economic community of west african states and the african union, denounce systematic violations of human rights. of course, human rights violations are not a recent phenomenon in this part of the world: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the result of the elections is of course the result of fraud. i think there is no doubt about it and it certainly set the stage for the outbreak of unbridled violence which has cost over a hundred dead and eighteen and a half thousand refugees forced to flee to neighbouring countries. the european union rightly calls on all political forces and institutional actors to show a sense of responsibility by fully respecting human rights. in any event, the 22 commitments which the government of togo has made and signed during the consultations under article 96 of the cotonou convention on respect for human rights must be respected in every way. i support the resolution we are putting forward today, which, among other things, accepts that action by all the european member states of the european union must be uniform and that statements which do not help in any real way but only create reactions in that region must be avoided.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i thank members for all their speeches, the majority of which were in support of this framework agreement. i just have two very short comments to make. i should like to say to mr allister that this agreement is based on the existing treaties. we are not anticipating the constitution. secondly, on publicity and publicising the results, they are all published in the official journal and are available on the internet. if there are any indications to the contrary, we will follow them up. but the general rule is that we always make them available in the official journal and on the internet. we will, of course, also publish them on the commission’s website. i hope for a positive vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs malmström (a6-0135/2005) on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on eu-russia relations (2004/2170 (ini)).
mr. president, we need to examine how we view russia: what side are we looking at it from? the americans will see it as an adversary, the countries of the former warsaw pact will see it as a threat. the question is whether we see it as a country with which we can work together. here we put conditions and, specifically, i read condition 24: "we ask russia to confirm its commitment to the territorial integrity of georgia and moldova and to withdraw military forces from georgia and moldova, as requested by the sovereign countries". that's very good. why did you not make the same condition to turkey, that it withdraw its troops from a sovereign country which is a member of the european union? why should there be double standards? why do we ask russia to withdraw its troops from georgia and moldova - which is right - but we have not asked turkey to do the same? you are asking russia to sign the kyoto protocol on the environment. that's right, i did. why did we not ask the americans to do the same, who are 16 times more polluting than russia, according to official figures? mr barroso has previously made a distinction between demagoguery and democracy. i am very much afraid that the commission and the council of europe are being demagogic on this issue.
mr president, russia should become a privileged strategic partner and the development and deepening of the partnership in all areas should be a key and consistent strategic priority of the european union in the years to come. no one can deny that russia has considerable potential to play a decisive role in consolidating international security, stability, peace and balance in the international system. i believe that cooperation is necessary to resolve international and regional crises within the framework of the un and to prevent solutions being imposed unilaterally. the experience of joint participation in the quartet for the settlement of the palestinian question, which led to the development of the road map, should also be used in other regional problems, such as kosovo, the crisis in the caucasus and the crisis in central asia. however, there is a serious lack of confidence between the two sides, which the enlargement of the european union has exacerbated rather than overcome. the enlargement must be a bridge to cooperation and not a new wall of division. the european union, and the new member states, have a great responsibility in this respect. we cannot contribute to building a strategic relationship with russia with the symptoms of fear and the experiences of a traumatic past. the crucial factor for the future of eu-russia relations is the development of a common european strategy, where all member states speak the same language and not on the basis of national priorities and individual interests. we need, as the european union, a coherent and comprehensive strategy with vision and breath in our relations with russia.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to tell the honourable member that there seems to have been a mistake. i have heard this in a different way. i can only say that this is a commercial project and have nothing else to add at the moment.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mrs gál. the commission and i personally share the lines, the spirit and the objectives of the report, as i have said. the commission has placed the promotion and protection of the fundamental rights of individuals at the heart of its action in the area of justice, security and freedom. following the decision taken by president barroso before this parliament, we have set up a group of commissioners to coordinate the commission's policies for the promotion and protection of fundamental rights. my proposal to the commission to carry out an impact assessment of each of its proposals on the guarantee of the protection and promotion of fundamental rights has already been accepted. this is a preventive impact assessment, which allows the commission to take only those initiatives which will help us to move forward in the direction of better protection of fundamental rights. that was a request from this parliament, and i fully agree with it. i have placed at the top of the ten priorities of the action plan implementing the so-called 'hague strategy' for a european area of freedom, justice and security, which was approved by the commission on 6 may, the principle that europe promotes and protects fundamental rights. this position clearly demonstrates that in my view the protection of fundamental rights is a priority across all union policies and particularly when it is a question - as i have repeatedly said before this parliament - of balancing the strong demand for the security of citizens with respect for the fundamental principles of the human person. i fully agree with the rapporteur's call for a european agency with a broad mandate, able to really deal with the promotion and protection of all fundamental rights. a broad mandate, which would justify the creation of a new agency. i too believe that it must be made very clear that only a strong and effective agency can justify the transformation of the vienna observatory into a genuine european agency, as decided by the european council and approved by this parliament, provided, i would add, that it is an agency whose objectives are to protect and promote fundamental rights. on behalf of the commission, i would like to say that there is broad agreement on the report presented today. it is clear that parliament will have to play an important role. i agree with your participation in the agency's board of directors - a symbolic but important aspect. i also agree that parliament has a role in the appointment of the agency's director, but of course we have to solve the strictly legal problems that exist and that need to be taken into account. these are questions concerning one or another legal basis, depending on the mandate to be given. i would like to stress that the commission's political commitment to take full account of parliament's proposals, amendments and indications, irrespective of the legal basis chosen, goes beyond the choice of the legal basis, which will correspond to the mandate given to the agency. obviously, there are several possibilities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. even if this different procedure were finally adopted, in my view the political solution would not change, that is to say, the commission would remain under the obligation to defend the proposals of this parliament and to take them to the council. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. i therefore confirm this commitment and thank the rapporteur once again for her report.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gál, on her excellent work. i think that the report is complete and that its content creates conditions for the protection of citizens' personal data and of fundamental rights in general. the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the constitutional treaty and the future accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms will certainly create a legal obligation for the union to promote the protection of human rights in all areas of policy. the european union's international cooperation in this sensitive area must be strengthened, commissioner. on this point, i would like to refer to paragraphs 24 and 25 of the report and paragraph 3 of the opinion of the committee on culture, which states that 'cooperation between the council of europe and the office should take on an institutional character'. in order to be effective, this cooperation should therefore be carried out by the states in accordance with the harmonization provisions laid down in the decisions of the council of europe. the creation of an awareness of respect for fundamental rights should be a priority for the office, to be implemented, inter alia, through the development of a communication strategy. the structure of the office should, in my view, also support special departments dealing with media issues such as media concentration, transparency and freedom of the press and expression. i believe that the vote in favour of this report will be an essential step and instrument in the context of freedoms and human rights. finally, the aim of the office is to develop a communication strategy which will help to create awareness of respect for fundamental rights and i consider, despite any contrary views that have been expressed, that this is a very important issue and so does the proposed structure. i therefore think it would be constructive to read more carefully this particular aspect of the creation of the office, as the rapporteur insists and analyses in her report.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. since the amsterdam treaty, the european union has been legislating in areas which now directly and indirectly affect fundamental rights. the protection of personal data, the right to asylum, equal and transparent access to justice, the fight against all forms of discrimination or the protection of minorities are central components of promoting human dignity in a people's europe and not just economic transactions or a unilateral emphasis on security, whatever the cost. in the context of the legislative process in these areas - and indeed in all areas - the legislator must assess the impact of future union decisions on the fundamental rights of its citizens in order to be able to carry out his work seriously. the paradox is that the institutions of the european union have not yet been provided with the appropriate mechanisms and procedures to carry out this evaluation adequately. so if we are going to do our job seriously, we need to get an agency, an outside help if you will, to support us in our work as the future fundamental rights organization. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european agency for the protection of the environment. finally, it is clear that the powers and organisation of this body must be pre-determined by the legislator, and therefore by the european parliament as co-legislator. the commission's future proposal must therefore also follow the co-decision procedure.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is pleased that the european parliament has been able to give its unchanged consent to the proposal to extend the two community action programmes in the field of equality between women and men until the end of 2006. this is a significant contribution to the process of community assistance in promoting equality between women and men, and i would like to thank you for it. in view of the general approach adopted by the council in december 2004, also without any amendment of the proposal, this support will allow decisions to be taken in the very near future, probably during the luxembourg presidency. this will greatly facilitate the planning process and the successful implementation of programmes in the future. ladies and gentlemen, this is a seemingly simple technical solution, but it has a great deal of implications, and i am therefore very pleased that parliament has considered the commission's proposal and is presenting it without further comment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing proposes to extend funding for the two community action programmes on the implementation of equality between men and women in the european union, which expire simultaneously on 31 december 2005, by one year. these two programmes form the backbone of our action in the field of the european strategy for equality between men and women and in support of civil society working on gender equality. the first programme is the community action programme on the community strategy for equality between women and men, which was established in 2000 and contributes to mainstreaming the gender dimension in all community policies in order to promote equality between women and men, while ensuring cooperation and partnerships between national authorities, equality bodies, social partners, non-governmental organisations. the european commission is proposing a total budget of €61.5 million, compared with €50 million in the previous budget. the second community action programme is aimed at promoting the work of organisations active at european level in the field of equality. it was set up in 2004 and supports the functioning and activities of women's organisations with a budget of €3.3 million, compared to €2.2 million in the previous budget. the implementation of these programmes in the past has been and continues to be successful and has brought positive results in various areas of action and activity, such as equal pay, the combination of work and family life, the participation of women in the decision-making process, and the awareness raising of society to change gender stereotypes. we have also taken a very important step towards pluralism and a more democratic participation of civil society, namely the opening up of community funding to all women's organisations and not just to a few privileged partners, as was the case in previous years. but the situation of equality in the european union, in view of both enlargement and the particular problems facing the new member states, the lack of participation of women in the productive, economic, political and social processes, and the discrimination suffered by women in particular today, force us to be bolder in the next steps. the adoption of this report ensures that, in time for the transitional period of the next year - 2006 - until the adoption of the new financial perspective, financial support for actions contributing to the promotion of equality and its integration into all the policies of the european union will continue. the adoption of this report closes the gap in the community's financial forecasts and speeds up the legislative procedures between the institutions - the european commission, the council, the european parliament - for the adoption of a final decision, as the commissioner responsible, mr figeľ, has said earlier. this will avoid the bad experiences of the past - i.e. the delay in adopting programmes - which result in the european commission not preparing proposals for tendering in time and also in civil society not participating and responding to the european commission's proposals in time. this is particularly important at a time when we are all working to strengthen the lisbon strategy and economic and social cohesion. our motion for a resolution also points out that, in the context of the new financial perspective for the 2007-2013 programming period, we must ensure that these programmes are adequately and discreetly financed, which will allow the effective promotion of equality policy and the development of a substantial role and contribution of civil society active in the field of equality in our democratic life. i thank the political groups who have worked with me to achieve this consensus motion for a resolution and to speed up the procedures which will extend the life and implementation of these community programmes.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the policies, and especially the resources, that are being allocated to promoting the social agenda and actively supporting employment are inadequate. unfortunately, the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy and the proposal for the new financial perspective undermine the importance of the social agenda and give less money to this priority, while we need to invest more in knowledge, research, innovation, training, but also in supporting the most vulnerable: people with disabilities, migrants, vulnerable groups such as young people, the elderly, women, low-skilled workers and the unemployed. i would like to thank mrs mato adrover for the good work she has done on the employment guidelines. the amendments by the committee on employment improve the commission's original text. the amendments tabled by the green group call for clearer objectives, they improve the text even further and we will therefore support them.
mr president, i should like to thank mr poettering, the chairman of our group, in public for his proposal to have a thorough discussion of the situation in the european union today, as well as of the progress of the ratification of the european constitution. i would like to thank him for this, because it is my own initiative to have this debate. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues who have supported this initiative by signing it. the european parliament cannot simply react. he has to act. the situation in the european union today is certainly a matter for democratically elected governments, but it is also a matter for the supremely democratically elected body, the european parliament. it is a minimum of democratic responsibility towards european civil society.
mr president, according to confirmed information, a conference of neo-nazi and fascist organisations is scheduled to take place from 16 to 18 september 2005 in the peloponnese, in the meligal area of the province of messina, with the participation of organisations from greece, italy, spain as well as countries of central europe and the usa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the greek government should immediately prohibit this undemocratic gathering. the european parliament must support this request, mr president.
mr president, between the two partsession of the plenary, we had two thunders not so much from france as from the netherlands. the european constitution, which was not, was not in europe. we must listen to the european people. in the european parliament, french mps voted 62% in favour. but the people of france voted 55% no. here, the dutch mps voted 82% yes. but the dutch voted 62% no. what's the matter? why do governments say yes and people say no? people know certain things. they know about unemployment, punctuality, the invasion of chinese goods. they know about all the things we're up to without their knowledge. we're letting turkey in without asking them, there's uncontrolled illegal immigration. we must pay more attention to the people. if we ask the people, if there is a consensus with the people, then europe can also move forward. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past. i hope that the bureaucrats in brussels will understand that. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs rothe again for her very important work in parliament. i would also like to thank mrs wortmann-kool and mrs korhola for their contribution to this well-prepared report. i will start where i see more support in the european parliament. in some cases doubts have been expressed about the need for energy efficiency, at least in the form proposed. it is an important, timely and necessary proposal, although perhaps a bit late in the day. first of all, concerning the security of energy supplies, there are limited possibilities for the supply side. we should address the demand side: this is where we should focus our attention. the second issue which is extremely popular with member states, at least theoretically, is the climate change issue. but the achievement of climate change goals is impossible without firmly addressing energy efficiency issues. we can indicate that if the target of 1% per year of energy efficiency were achieved, we could save around 50% of the european union’s kyoto goals. this is an extremely important issue. without addressing energy efficiency firmly we cannot achieve these goals. sometimes it is perceived that energy efficiency is against the lisbon goals or against our competitiveness. quite the opposite. it is the only way to go forward because climate change is a global issue and if we get competitive development in this field, we will definitely be competitive leaders in the world. so it provides more opportunities than the cost involved. regarding mandatory targets, i very much welcome parliament’s approach. i think a mandatory target is a must. first of all, we do not have very good experience with indicative targets; but secondly, in the energy efficiency area as it relates to all areas, mandatory targets are providing a sustainable policy. i salute the proposal of the parliament to be more flexible about the scope and level of the target. i would say the parliament is more demanding than the commission. i congratulate parliament on that, but we think that our figures are perhaps more modest, but at the same time generally well defendable in the council. so, there is no difficulty with a three times three years proposal. i think it gives some necessary flexibility, but at the same time 3, 4 or 5% with a bottom-up approach means a lot. it is a really demanding target and we shall have to see whether it is achievable. concerning the issue of one target or individual targets, i am in favour of the general approach of one target. some of the speakers mentioned that we have a different situation, one country has done more, another less. if we compare, for example, new and old member countries, the energy consumption per capita in the new member countries is lower. there are huge possibilities, but it also shows that there is an opportunity for older member states, so all member states have the potential to achieve these targets. i think this is a less bureaucratic approach and is a policy throughout the union, and the member states that have invested in energy efficiency are gaining more and have more possibilities to achieve something in the energy efficiency field. there has been less debate on energy services, but i think that this part of the directive is also very important. if you personally look and see what has happened with energy services during your lifetime, you will see that not much has happened. so this directive is giving a necessary boost for the construction of energy services, because the market by itself has not provided this development. there have been some very good proposals from the parliament, some of which could be acceptable. there are some very important issues relating to best practices. each member state can find something it has done in the energy efficiency area that could be used in other member states. so it is very important at a european level, but also at member state, regional and local levels because energy efficiency is an aspect of each of the operations or uses of energy using the equipment that we have. it means that we should involve the whole society in this process. at this stage it must be done in a very intelligent way, but not necessarily always through restrictions. i would like to thank the parliament once again for its strong support for this very important directive and i hope that we will convince the council about the mandatory targets. that is now the big challenge.
vice-president of the european commission on behalf of the commission, i welcome mr bösch's report on the protection of the community's financial interests and the fight against fraud. the report focuses on the previous year. for me, this has been a period of initiation into olaf and the shaping of european anti-fraud policy for the years to come. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bosch, for his constructive work. as i have said many times, i believe that olaf also needs a stable and secure environment for its development. i will now turn to some questions that i would like to address at some length. first, as regards the reimbursement of payments, i welcome the emphasis in the conclusions on the responsibility of the member states in this matter. the commission appreciates your comments on the work of the joint working group of olaf and the directorate-general for agriculture on cases of reimbursement of funds from the agricultural guidance and guarantee fund where member states have made a declaration before 1999 concerning possible fraud or irregularities. the report cites cooperation agreements with philip morris international and the swiss confederation as successful examples. both have been visible and tangible results in the fight against fraud. thank you for your appreciative comments and for the rapporteur's support in handling these cases. with regard to the agreements with philip morris and the swiss confederation, i would like to stress the novelty of these agreements. the commission considers that all other member states could also join the agreement. we hope they will join the newly joined austria, ireland, malta and poland. i also hope that the agreement with phillip morris will serve as a model for other similar agreements. in the light of the forthcoming olaf hearing in parliament, the commission is awaiting, together with parliament, the report of the court of auditors on the results of the management audit carried out by olaf. the hearing will provide an opportunity for serious discussion on a number of issues raised in the report. in particular, this comment concerns the institutional structure of the olaf and its complex role in relations with the relevant bodies of the member states and the institutions of the european union. in the hearing in parliament at the beginning of july, we will have the opportunity to look in detail at the structure and structure of olaf. i am grateful to you for organising the hearing and hope that the upcoming hearing will help us find the best solutions for the development of olaf. the commission will do its utmost to ensure that the implementation of the conclusions of this and previous reports is in line with parliament's wishes.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the protection of the community's financial interests, which is directly linked to the fight against fraud, is a duty which we all share, and it is also a legitimate protection and expectation of citizens and society. the fight against fraud must be considered a national and community priority, not only of an economic but also of a cultural nature. it's a matter of education in general, beyond the question of unfair competition. the development of policies and their implementation is of paramount importance in this respect. one of the economic sectors that has been in the spotlight is agriculture. a complex, multidimensional field with diffuse social characteristics. the cap reform and the simplification it promised is a positive starting point for the implementation of effective control systems and transparent management. in the same context, the recent agreement on a new system of financing the cap, which, as you have already mentioned, has already been decided by the council of agriculture ministers, seems to serve the same objectives, namely simplification of procedures and efficiency of the support provided. the implementation of the new management systems of the common market organisations requires an additional effort on the part of the member states, always keeping in mind a more favourable cost-benefit ratio. the simplification of payment and control mechanisms should be promoted so that there is a clear distinction between irregularity and fraud. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the main responsibility, however, lies with the community institutions. within their respective competences, they should act and cooperate in the interest of the union. the expectations of the citizens are that we should have a proper management of the resources of the european union. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive proposal on the fight against fraud and the interests of the european union.
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the european constitution since the first reading in the european parliament in june last year. the fact is that there is an insecurity among the citizens about what is happening within the walls. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the cap is one of the policies which does not guarantee a stable long-term economic and business environment. the common agricultural policy is being modified and reformed not primarily because of the need to solve its own problems but mainly because of external pressures, such as those of the world trade organisation, bilateral trade agreements and the european union's budgetary prospects. the budgetary perspective is intended to express new tendencies towards renationalization in the european union, by reducing the community budget and renationalizing the financing of community policies such as the cap. a policy which, while criticised for creating economically privileged farmers in certain regions of the european union, instead of discussing the issue of redistribution of community resources to reduce these glaring disparities, promotes its co-financing, which will result in the sharpening of these disparities. rural development, in order to strengthen the rural economy but also to keep pace with sustainable regional development, must have resources and integrated planning. the resources proposed by the commission and the compromise proposals of the presidency cannot lead to a strengthened rural development policy which will open up new opportunities and introduce innovations to bring the rural sector closer to the lisbon objectives. the commission is not in a position to classify the lessfavoured areas by excluding the employment criterion, and it seems to be deciding on the basis of technocratic criteria such as the soil components. it does not take into account the real problems of the countryside, which is being hit by rising unemployment. the duration of the development programmes should be seven years, in line with the implementation of the cap, in order to give producers and the food industries a fixed time horizon. i would like to say that i am in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the rejection of the two recent referendums cannot take us back, but must force us to say yes to the major structural development policies for a europe of cohesion and solidarity.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs rosa díez gonzález, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the european union action plan against terrorism (2004/2214 (ini)) (a6-0164/2005), on the report by mr jaime mayor oreja, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on terrorist attacks: prevention, preparedness and response (2005/2043 (ini)) (a6-0166/2005), on the report by mr stavrou duvarini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the protection of sensitive information in the context of the fight against terrorism (2005/2214 (ini)) (c6-0165/2004), on the report by mr antonio c. c. c. c. (2004/129) on the european union action plan against terrorism (2004/2214 (ini)) (a6-0164/2005)), on the report by mr antonio c. c. c. c. (2004/129) on the european union action plan against terrorism (2004/16/06/2005) (cns) (a6-01694)), on the report by mr antonio c. c. alvarez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the report by mr antonio c.
i would like to welcome our former colleague, mr de vries, who is following our debate from the council.
the rapporteur. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it paralyzes the population, affects their sense of security, and that's how the terrorists win. it also reduces popular resistance and creates anxiety in governments about repressive measures, which often violate fundamental freedoms. and that's where the terrorists win. the best way to reduce this fear is to be prepared, as europe, both to prevent terrorist attacks and their consequences and, if a terrorist attack does occur, to be prepared to deal with the consequences of that attack in the best possible way, that is, by reducing the consequences for both the wider population and the victims. why do we do these things together, and not each one separately? because first, terrorism knows no borders, and our critical infrastructure now, too, often knows no borders. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. secondly, because we are bound to this union not only by economic ties but also by ties of solidarity. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to act in a way that is consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but what are we supposed to do together? in the prevention and protection of critical infrastructure, i would say to you that it is very important that there should be a programme for the protection of critical infrastructure, proposed by the commission and approved by parliament. the member states must, in cooperation with the operators of these infrastructures, who are often private, define these infrastructures in a harmonised european manner. analyze their vulnerabilities, assess the threats, which means we need to share information about these systems with each other. my country may have information about a possible threat to another. we must find solutions to protect them, but also to respond adequately if they are attacked. at the same time, we must ensure confidentiality so that the owners of these infrastructures can exchange information in advance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we need to secure funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the end does not justify the means. ensure a recognisable and achievable timetable and independent european oversight of support for this timetable for infrastructure enforcement. we can't just give money without a timetable. what can we do to manage crises? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's the biggest cost. you can have a database to coordinate european - if there is a disaster in one country, which other countries will help and with which forces - but that costs money. we need to have cooperation with ngos and local authorities. everyone is involved in the event of a disaster, whether it's terrorist or natural. all early warning systems must be integrated, the so-called argus. there should be a crisis management, coordination and monitoring and information processing centre in the commission. we must also consult the national authorities with experience as europe. i mention this because we in greece, with the 2004 olympic games, organized the largest operation of civil protection and protection of infrastructure in the history, possibly, of this world. the european commission cannot organise such a large programme without consulting such authorities. what can we do together, mr. president? no green, red, orange warnings to the world. we can't create a climate of panic. by creating a climate of panic, we have created what the terrorists want. it's the fear i mentioned at the beginning. not in preemptive wars against terror. whether it's wars against a state, or it's wars against fundamental rights. there is a very strong temptation at the moment in many countries of the world to restrict fundamental rights, ostensibly to counter terrorism. no treating terrorism as a purely police phenomenon. it is not and it should not be treated as such. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. and not in ignoring victims. we must remember these faces. the terrorists, on the other hand, want us to ignore them. mr president, thank you very much for your attention and thank you all for the unanimous adoption of this report by the committee on civil liberties. i hope we can achieve a lot together in the future.
mr. president, i have been a victim of terrorism. at the tv station i run in athens, i was twice attacked with bombs. the station burned down and it's terrible to see people trying to get through the fires to save themselves. i've been attacked in my own home. i drive an armored car and i have security. i sleep with an uzi on my pillow. it's terrible to know that at any moment you can be attacked. but we must admit that terrorism has already won its first victories over democracy. and what are the victories? the tv cameras, the phone taps, the erosion of human rights, the biometric passports that are coming into our lives. all of this is a victory for terrorism, to the extent that we diminish our democracy. some use terrorism to impose a global control. they're feeding it. when we say that terrorists are usually fanatical islamists and some go and pee and spit on the koran, don't they feed the fanaticism of islamists? so we have to ask ourselves, looking at the other side. we must not look at terrorism from the seat of the european parliament. let's look at terrorism from inside the cave in afghanistan. how does anyone there see it, so that we can at some point have a code of communication and solve the issue. why a millionaire prince doesn't live in the casinos of london, why he doesn't live in the bahamas and the warmth of, say, beautiful women, rather than go live and die in a cave. we need to see what it is. is that fanaticism ? that's an easy answer. but what is fueling this fanaticism? have we not been as honest in history? have we not for years held these parts of the earth in subjection? didn't our ally in the hunt for terrorists commit the greatest ethnic cleansing in centuries when he wiped out an entire race, the redskins? did he base his progress on the torture of negroes and their slavery? so maybe we're not right, too? what's our speech today? isn't our speech one-sided in the middle east? what are we collecting? we say, friend now gaddafi, who shot down a pan american plane with dozens of dead because he changed policy, but we are chasing, at the same time, castro, who has not shot down planes. we say, the dictator of pakistan is good because he is our friend, but the other dictator is bad and we are at war. so we need to see how honest we are on the issue of terrorism. let's see what's going on. we have to keep our ears open, because as long as we're taking aspirin, the headache will continue to exist. we need to find out what's causing the headache. we must therefore open our eyes and not have a one-sided policy. we need to give more incentives, more opportunities to these people to reduce fanaticism, to reduce terrorism. that's the solution.
mr president, the council's decisions and the reports we are discussing today are attempts to counter terrorism, under the pretext of accelerating the creation and implementation of a more authoritarian institutional framework, the creation and strengthening of new repressive mechanisms, monitoring systems, etc. whose real objective is not to counter this terrorism you speak of, but the rising popular movement and the struggles of the peoples against the new imperialist order. secondly, by adopting the preventive war on terrorism, to prepare the peoples to accept new interventions and wars. it is characteristic that in no report is the state terrorism of the united states and other countries in afghanistan, iraq, israel's terrorism in palestine, etc. denounced - on the contrary, it is exonerated. really, we ask you, the massacre of 100,000 civilians in fallujah in one week by american troops is terrorism or is it not? finally, the council decision of last november and the oreja report introduce the position that radical movements or extreme ideologies are a source of terrorism, and this means that social movements and people's struggles are characterized as terrorist. what we are pointing out is that you are trembling at the rising struggles of the peoples who have appeared ... (the president interrupts the speaker).
mr president, the commitment of all of us to combat terrorism in all its forms is unwavering and firm and is, moreover, one of the priorities of the hague programme. however, in order to prevent and combat terrorism effectively, there must be systematic cooperation between member states in the legislative field, in the exchange of information, in the prevention of financing and in the protection of international transport. finally, there must be a comprehensive and continuous preventive policy and the european union must now move forward and not simply react to tragic events. the first weapon against terrorism is the existence of information. as terrorism is now a global phenomenon and operates on a global scale, there is a need for the collection and exchange of information at international level and for improved threat assessment, while always taking into account the need to respect privacy, to protect fundamental rights and freedoms that are part of our culture. the reports of all the other rapporteurs, from different angles of view, converge on common findings with which i fully agree. i believe that the existence of many texts, not only those eight reports under discussion today, but also all the others that have been adopted from time to time, creates the risk of confusion and ineffectiveness. i would like to suggest to the commissioner present, mr frattini, that the relevant commission departments should proceed to codify all the relevant texts. i am sure that such a move would lead to simplification, systematization and coherence of the texts. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. confusion is not a prerequisite for a proper response to terrorism.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. from a marginal phenomenon in the 1970s, mostly confined to a single state and with specific objectives, it has unfortunately developed in recent years with deadly attacks using sophisticated technological means. the increase is due to the perpetuation of unsolved political and social problems. the international community has failed to demonstrate its unwavering will to initiate processes of peaceful coexistence in specific hotbeds of conflict, arising from religious, political and nationalist differences. terrorism has been revived wherever the organized international community, or part of it unilaterally, has attempted to impose solutions by force, resulting in the creation of new centres of more violence. it is well known that violence not only does not suppress violence, it actually increases it. as long as the palestinian problem remains unresolved, terrorism will expand, feeding extremism, which is indeed a root cause of terrorism. but terrorism is not only dealt with by judicial and police measures. integrated crisis management systems, monitoring and electronic processing of suspect information, combating terrorist financing, the effective exchange of information or adopting a common definition of terrorism are preventive and repressive mechanisms. they don't strike at the root of evil. the debate and vote in the european parliament today on the eight reports which are designed to combat it is important. we all know, however, that this is not enough. we are not in a position to eradicate terrorism with such measures. the final solution to this scourge must be sought beyond the coordinated community preventive and suppressive action. the solution lies in achieving conditions of world peace, equality and prosperity.
in writing. the package of eight reports presented today to the european parliament is a specialisation of the so-called eu counter-terrorism strategy aimed at shielding the political service of capital against the rising popular movement and the resistance of the peoples to imperialism. the oreja report attempts to document the need for this policy to be escalated and to move to the stage of preventive action against terrorism in line with the us-imperialist doctrine of preventive war. at the same time, it introduces, in a "sharp" way and using the term "islamic terrorism", the extension of the definition of terrorist activity and terrorist groups, implying, of course, movements and organizations that challenge or fight to overthrow the current situation. it is obvious that this report is also an attempt to create a climate of disorientation among workers by making the issue of 'terrorism' the greatest danger, so that the authoritarian measures proposed will be accepted and there will be a popular consensus in the formation of new repressive bodies and mechanisms. the workers and peoples of europe, faced with the eu's agonizing attempt to intensify its repressive measures and mechanisms against the popular movement, must oppose disobedience and indiscipline to them at the national level by strengthening their struggles and their coordination so that they are overthrown.
in writing. the report is fully in line with the operation of disorientation and terrorizing the people under the pretext of terrorism. it adopts a commission communication on this subject, which calls on the member states to draw up (in cooperation with private security companies) lists of facilities considered to be 'critical infrastructure' (private, public, public utility) in the following sectors: energy, communications, banking, health, food, water, transport, public administration, etc. the big industrialists - as owners and as associations (e.g. sevs) - are upgraded to equal partners with the state in a field that (formally at least) falls under the exclusive competence of the state they will have access to all the information on possible risks of "terrorist attack" and will help to elaborate the counter-terrorist strategy! the above will be integrated into a 'european programme for the protection of critical infrastructure' (epcip), and a further secret network (argus) will be set up to collect and exchange any information which may contribute to 'early warning of crises and emergency needs'. the above measures, together with the euro-monitoring act, are intended, among other things, to create the conditions for any form of struggle used by the workers' and people's movement in its struggles to be considered as terrorist acts. the rapporteur's attempt to include natural disaster risks or references to respect for fundamental rights are an alibi for passing the new authoritarian measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the voice of the people is growing louder for a more social and democratic europe, unfortunately the council and the juncker presidency are backing down with the 'six-country pistol at the head'. they seek, at all costs, a compromise in the least common denominator. they are abandoning the ambitious goals for the future of european integration. the european left group rejects the logic of the 'sacrifice-on-sacrifice' agreement which is also reflected in the böge report, because it leads to less europe, greater inequalities and makes the weaker countries and the weaker social groups the victims. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not only the council but also the commission which has been involved in the debate. the european left considers the commission's proposal to be a completely inadequate starting point for financing the objectives of cohesion and the social agenda after enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are all equal. address positively and fully the injustice suffered by the 16 regions affected by the so-called statistical effect and ensure stronger support during the transitional period for natural convergence regions.
mr president, after congratulating mr böge on the work he has done, i would like to join my voice with the voices of all those colleagues who wished that the decisions on the financial perspective should be taken now. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. decisions should be taken at a level satisfactory to all member states. the commission's proposals are not only a step in the right direction, but also a step in the wrong direction, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in the future. in any case, i would say that it is important that the presidency at least try to limit the adverse effects of its proposals. how did you do that ? firstly, by means of compensation mechanisms for those countries and regions which are disproportionately affected by the mechanism for allocating appropriations proposed by the commission. secondly, by re-using the appropriations lost as a result of the n+2 rule. i would also like to say that we are obviously against renationalization and cofinancing of the common agricultural policy and, finally, mr president, because there is a debate on many sides about the savings that must be made and that we cannot give more appropriations, the budget of the european union represents a total of 2.5% of public expenditure in all the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is a matter of political credibility for the european union, after enlargement, to secure the budgetary means to implement the policies of growth, employment, regional convergence and social cohesion. this need is all the more pressing in view of the recent successes achieved in france and the netherlands with the european constitution. i really want to thank the rapporteur, mr böge, for his work, but i think it is disappointing that the european parliament's position is to propose 1.07% in payment appropriations as against the 1.14% originally proposed by the european commission. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such a development would lead to farmers moving at different speeds, to widening regional disparities and to serious consequences for the budgetary aspect of cohesion countries. i would also agree with those who have said that we need to ensure that the resources for the structural funds and the cohesion fund are adequate. the new countries certainly need support, but at the same time the regions of the old cohesion countries which suffer the consequences of enlargement because of the statistical effect need substantial support. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. unfortunately, the luxembourg presidency's proposal is moving in this restrictive direction at great cost to cohesion policies. the european council next week will see the heads of state or government rise to the occasion and make bold decisions on european political priorities and their necessary financing.
madam president, very soon the commissioner's answer that the commission has nothing to do with this is not sufficient. the european commission approves the financing of the common foreign and security policy and participates in the formulation of the european union's foreign policy. it should also be noted that the honourable member's question concerns the european union's external relations and, as we know, the boundaries between traditional external relations and traditional foreign policy are fluid both in their reference to the treaty and in their practice.
member of the commission. the honourable member has raised a number of questions regarding the funding of television channels and of independent production companies by the media programme. i would like to underline that the media plus programme does not include television channels as direct beneficiaries under any of its schemes. in the television sector, independent production companies, which are often smes, are supported in the production of audio-visual work for television. the aim is to encourage these companies to produce works – any works: fiction, documentaries, animated films – involving no fewer than two broadcasters, preferably more. so it is really the european added value which is at stake. they also have to belong to different language zones, so it is multilingualism which is at stake – a question that was raised before. the media programmes recognise the precarious existence of independent production companies in a fragmented european market, companies whose economic livelihood often depends on a single project; and a number of the mechanisms therefore target these important creative activities. the television distribution funding mechanism was one of the media plus programme actions which was examined in the mid-term evaluation which took place last year. this evaluation confirmed the key role played by the various actions for independent producers, as well as that of measures such as eye-to-eye audio-visual and the development action encompassing new talent, single projects and state funding. finally, the second interim evaluation, as requested by the european parliament in the context of the prolongation of the media programmes, will be launched very shortly, and will be submitted to parliament.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, which was, i must admit, very comprehensive and covered a wide range of subjects. i've essentially monopolized a lot of media. but i'm moving on. in order to enable independent producers to retain the rights of their producers and to make it easier for them to secure copyright protection in order to increase the ability to attract investment from private investors, do you agree that the commission and the council should take steps to this end? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. is there at least some prediction?
member of the commission. the march 2005 european council, in adopting the european pact for youth, stressed that integrating young people into society and working life and making better use of their potential is essential for growth in europe. the pact aims to improve the education, training, mobility, vocational integration and social inclusion of young europeans, whilst facilitating the reconciliation of family life and working life. the commission has responded to the pact without delay. it has analysed the possibilities that the pact offers and has made proposals for action. we adopted a communication on 30 may this year, which has been transmitted to parliament. at national level the pact, which is an integral part of the lisbon partnership for growth and jobs, will be implemented through the integrated guidelines proposed by the commission and to be adopted by the council in june. the guidelines call, inter alia, for action to reduce youth unemployment and to increase access to education and training. the communication outlines how member states can implement the pact when preparing their national lisbon reform programmes with reference to the guidelines. the communication draws attention to the demographic changes facing europe. it emphasises the need to foster societies that are child- and youth-friendly and the need for solidarity in creating an inclusive europe, building on solidarity between the generations. it indicates that member states should follow the integrated guidelines in taking action for achieving a better family and work balance, for example providing facilities for childcare and care for other dependants as part of tackling demographic ageing and a low birth rate. the communication identifies actions at european level to support the pact: the use of the social inclusion strategy to improve the situation of vulnerable young people; european social fund support for projects targeting young people in areas of employment, training and social inclusion; the development of a specific tool for recognition of youth work with a view to including a ‘youthpass’ in europass next year; and proposals for a european qualifications framework, hopefully also next year. as stressed by the european council, the success of the pact depends on the involvement of all actors, especially youth organisations. the communication invites member states to consult young people in developing measures for the pact and following it up. it announces the consultation that the commission will undertake on youth policy, culminating in the youth etats généraux at the end of december 2005, to involve members of the european parliament and the parliament itself, as well as young people, commissioners and other policy makers.
i thank the commissioner for his answer, which was very comprehensive and very informative. the only question i have about this long list which you have mentioned and which i am quite satisfied with because it really covers all the issues, is how the commission's plans will be financed.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to thank mr moraes in particular for his excellent report and the parliament's civil liberties and employment committees for their valuable contributions. the promotion of fundamental rights, the fight against discrimination and equal opportunities are priorities for the european commission. president barroso, on his own initiative, set up a group of commissioners to develop the european union's policy agenda in these areas. your rapporteur, mr claude moraes, mep, has drawn our attention to the need for further action to tackle discrimination and the position of minorities in the european union. the commission shares many of the concerns raised by mr moraes and other members. the european union's anti-discrimination legislation is already among the most advanced in the world. two major directives were adopted in 2000 prohibiting discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, age, disability or sexual orientation. these directives have expanded the extensive body of community legislation on discrimination on grounds of sex. as your rapporteur has rightly pointed out, the main task for us now will be to ensure that these rules work effectively throughout the enlarged europe, i.e. that the process of transposing the rules at national level needs to be completed. however, some member states have not yet complied with the deadlines. the commission takes its role as guardian of contracts in this area very seriously and has already initiated several infringement procedures. we also need to ensure that people are aware of their rights and are able to exercise them. education is a priority for the commission and we therefore propose that the european union declare 2007 the european year of equal opportunities for all. this european year will be a significant opportunity to mobilise all stakeholders and to highlight the contribution of european diversity to the economy and society as a whole. i hope that we can count on the support of the european parliament and your active participation in this european year. in 2004, the european commission launched a wide public consultation on the basis of the green paper on equality and non-discrimination in an enlarged european union. over 1500 responses were received from national authorities, equality bodies, ngos, social partners and the general public. we are very pleased that we can now take account of the views and reactions of the european parliament on the issues addressed in the green paper. following this green paper, the commission adopted a communication on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all. this communication describes a framework strategy for future action in this area. this strategy goes beyond the protection of individual rights and explores how the european union can support positive measures to promote the integration of groups facing serious structural barriers to their participation in society. the commission will also assess the relevance and feasibility of any new measures to complement existing european union legislation in the field of anti-discrimination. this study will take into account the relative merits of legislative and non-legislative measures, the costs and benefits of different policy alternatives, but also the need to ensure that we do not open up discussions on the existing legal framework and risk weakening the current level of protection against discrimination. the commission is particularly concerned about the extremely serious situation of exclusion and discrimination of roma communities throughout the european union, but also in the acceding and candidate countries. the european union is already addressing these issues, for example through its anti-discrimination rules and the targeted use of european union funds. however, this is an area where the union cannot act alone. this requires a joint effort by international organisations, national authorities of the member states and civil society representatives. however, i agree that we should consider how to make more effective use of the political union's policies and programmes to promote roma inclusion. as confirmed by president barroso, this issue will be addressed by the group of commissioners for fundamental rights, non-discrimination and equal opportunities at one of their upcoming meetings.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr moraes on his courageous approach to the issue of discrimination. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would be happy if today we could talk about growth, cooperation, solidarity, tolerance, rational and fair distribution of the wealth produced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vision finds a powerful adversary everywhere. it is precisely economic liberalism that is the main cause of the sharpening of economic imbalances, which promotes individual activity at the expense of social collectivity. it is economic liberalism, the most important factor, that is reinforcing xenophobic tendencies, that is stimulating labour relations and creating new armies of unemployed, that is reinforcing a specific social racism against the elderly and the disabled. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. it is also clear that the recent refusal of the french and dutch people to accept the draft constitutional treaty is due to reasons closely linked to some of the existing forms of social discrimination, such as unemployment, poverty and concern about the future of the welfare state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must hand over to future generations a society where color, religion, gender, origin, sexual preference are not grounds for discrimination. we must fight for a social europe, a people-centred europe, a participatory europe, investing in education, full employment, quality of life, the eradication of poverty. we owe it to the children of the world.
the protection of minorities must not only be one of the main political criteria of copenhagen for the candidate countries, but also a dynamic indicator of democratization and the credibility of democratic institutions. in this respect, the european union must be the strict judge and controller of the behaviour of all the applicant countries. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this field. the issue of minorities should not be exploited to promote national interests or to undermine other countries. the logic of its strategy of tension, with its siege of religious and ethnic minorities, is a source of tension, conflict and mutual distrust, which ultimately comes at the expense of the minorities themselves. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. the moraes report attempts to define a national minority by referring to the council of europe's definition of the term. i think, however, that what should be added to his report, especially in paragraph 7 on the definition, is the clear reference to the international treaties governing religious and ethnic minorities. an international treaty is the solid basis for protecting the rights of minorities and the secure framework for preventing policies from being exploited for other purposes. with that in mind, mr president, i should like to congratulate mr moraes on the excellent report he has presented to us and i believe that it should be voted on tomorrow.
mr president, the report under discussion is a synthetic text which gives a realistic assessment of the problems and sets out the guidelines for a common european immigration policy, both legal and illegal, and proposes not only repressive but also preventive measures to prevent and suppress immigration, such as support for countries to combat poverty, to strengthen education and to help future immigrants in their own countries. the committee on women's rights and gender equality, in its opinion drawn up by mrs cratza, contributed to the report's emphasis on the link between illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, and the need for access to legal and social protection for victims. the report calls for the fight against discrimination and the implementation of programmes aimed at ensuring equal rights for men and women, irrespective of the legality of migration. it is positive that, for non-economic migration, equal participation in education, training, work and family reunification is also called for. the report also stresses the need for member states to address the continuation in the host country of inhuman traditions, which even lead to honour crimes against women. it is also positive that the temporary nature and illegality of the work undertaken by immigrants is highlighted, which particularly affects women. in the 6th century b.c.e., the ancient greek poet archilochus described one of the most unpleasant situations in which a person can find himself, leaving his homeland and wandering in a foreign land. then the commodity most at risk, the poet points out, is not well-being, health, but dignity for himself and his family members. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, mr gaubert, and the commissioner, mr frattini, for the human tone they have given both to the commissioner's proposal and to his speech, and i think it is good for europe to draw up policies which will help to promote the dignity and integrity of migrants.
mr president, the issue of immigration, legal and illegal, is a huge one and has many facets. it is linked to the fight against racism and xenophobia, to asylum policy, to the integration of migrants, to the possibility of their being legally employed in the host countries and, above all, to human trafficking. the european commission has been dealing with this subject since 1986 - with the new single european act - and has adopted a large number of directives and decisions. i would therefore like to repeat what i said this morning. it is imperative that all this volume of decisions and directives be codified. without coding, we're floating in a sea of documents and decisions. however, it has been observed that member states either do not implement binding decisions or delay in transposing them into national law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be a mistake not to congratulate mr gaubert on his report. the report takes a few steps forward. it called on the commission to strengthen community solidarity and to strengthen common policies in the field of information and coordination of all the structures involved in the management of migration flows. the report also stresses the need for cooperation with the regions of origin, since a proper information system will identify the employment opportunities of the migrant candidate. but of course this cooperation must not go as far as commissioner buttiglione said in his report, because it would be a pity if we were to set up concentration centres - i would say military camps - in the countries from which migrants leave. it would be a crime, which our society cannot accept.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, this proposal for a directive deletes the reference to indicative levels. these levels now serve as a single quantitative criterion for the national administrations of the member states when they are called upon to assess the commercial or non-commercial character of the holder when importing excise goods. the abolition of the indicative levels will allow national administrations to establish and apply their own criteria for the assessment by their competent national authorities of the commercial or non-commercial nature of the holding. i think that this is not in line with the principles of the internal market, but on the contrary represents a step backwards and a tendency towards renationalization. i believe that it would be more appropriate to maintain the indicative levels or, if appropriate, to provide for a study to evaluate the existing ones or to replace them with new indicative levels. secondly, in order to harmonize national legislation and complete the internal market in all areas, this proposal for a directive should be regarded as a transitional stage. the final objective should be to prepare national legislation and the internal market in an appropriate manner so as to make possible the harmonisation of the rates of excise duties imposed by each member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i would like to stress, however, that this directive is a major improvement on the existing system. in particular, the proposed provisions to better define problematic concepts such as the commercial purpose for including the concept of a gift in products subject to excise duty in the member state of acquisition, distance selling and, finally, the simplification of mechanisms, i believe help to solve the current difficulties. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rosati, on his comprehensive proposal on this subject and i think the house will vote on his proposal tomorrow.
the debate which will take place in the european council next week, mr president, unfortunately takes place in the shadow of the two notions of the european constitution. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. in this debate, if we have understood the message conveyed by the citizens of france and the netherlands, we must examine all the political, economic, social and cultural issues which concern - and should concern - the citizens of the european union. the conclusions of this debate will perhaps lead us to a review of the policies which the european union has adopted and pursues to date, both internally and in its external relations. we should not be frightened by the idea and the possibility of a policy review. on the contrary, european integration, as a dynamic process, also involves the need to review policies when necessary. i feel that today, more than ever, we must remain true to the european idea. but precisely because we must remain true to the european idea, perhaps the time has come to reconsider and redefine its content.
in writing. it is a challenge to discuss the budgetary perspectives for 2007-13 when they have as their declared objective the implementation of the new constitutional treaty which has been rejected, condemned, is dead. the people of france and the netherlands have condemned, on the basis of their own life experience, the european and governmental policy that brings austerity, unemployment, precision, uncertainty, through the capitalist restructuring promoted by the 2007-2013 budgetary perspective. this is their orientation in order to profit and strengthen european capital and the plutocracy of each country, to strike at labour rights, to strengthen the militarisation of the eu and of course a lot of funds are for propaganda and to distract workers from their real interests. the inter-imperialist contradictions are intensifying and the room for manoeuvre is shrinking, and the rejection of the 'euro-constitution' is a good and optimistic message. the positive result of these referendums for the peoples of the eu, which you disregard with your attitude - that is your pseudo-democracy - cannot be reversed by a decision on the budgetary perspective, which the kke group in the european parliament votes against. but it shows the workers the way of disobedience and insubordination to eu policy and opens up the prospect of the struggle for a europe of peace, of popular rights, of socialism.
in writing. the pasok group in the european parliament voted in favour of the moraes report. as the report points out, equal treatment is a fundamental right. at the same time, it notes that the member states of the union have different definitions of ethnic, national, religious minorities and population groups within their borders, based on their laws and/or international treaties. the constitutional and legal structure of the member states and the relevant provisions of international law can in no way be considered to be challenged or affected by this report.
in writing. the report on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged europe contains everything but the essential. that is, the existence of discrimination in the eu against women, young people, ethnic minorities, immigrants, the disabled, etc., is on the one hand the result of the anti-people and intolerable policies of the eu, and on the other hand is deeply class characterized, is not class neutral and mainly affects the poorest layers of the people. it mentions the many existing discriminations against women and young people in the workplace, but it is silent about the high unemployment rates, the inhuman flexible forms of employment applied mainly to young people and women, as a result of the lisbon-type strategies. the report is silent on the scandalous discrimination against the russian minority in the baltic states, despite the fact that the kke has repeatedly raised the problem in the european parliament. the people who are discriminated against must have no illusions. only their own struggle in cooperation with the consistent, class-based labour movements, with the popular struggling movements can put a stop to their marginalization and exclusion from the social and political rights that capitalism and its political representatives deny them.
mr president, the post-war balances that the un has institutionally expressed have now been upset. new international problems and challenges threaten world peace and stability. the international system is dominated by the omnipotence of the united states and its unilateral approach to solving international problems. the legitimacy of the un has been diminished, while its effectiveness and credibility have been dangerously weakened. humanity needs a new democratic, multilateral system that reflects modern geographical and political realities. the united nations system is therefore a necessary prerequisite for a world of peace, freedom, democracy, development and justice. the un secretary-general's report and its proposals for reforms are boldly responding to the challenges of our time. the report by mr laschet is moving in this direction. but no reform can achieve its objectives unless the un regains its lost credibility in the implementation of its decisions. the european union has also made a number of important contributions to the peace process, including the establishment of a permanent peace and security council, the establishment of a permanent peace and security council, and the establishment of a permanent peace and security council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a serious shortcoming in mr laschet's report.
president of the council. the council confirms that the european council of 22 and 23 march adopted a european pact for youth. it is also about to adopt the employment guidelines, which contain, in the general introduction, a reference to the european youth pact. in addition, guideline 18, which deals with the working life cycle, contains a reference to the pact in the context of youth employment and unemployment. this guideline will therefore be the subject of the follow-up provided for all guidelines, on the basis of national reports. it should also be recalled that a number of quantified objectives relevant to the european youth pact were already adopted in 2003 as part of the employment strategy. the aim is to reduce the time taken to find a job for unemployed young people to six months by 2010, to reduce the number of school dropouts to 10% and to increase the number of 22-year-olds who have completed secondary education to 85%. the council also took note of the commission's intention to submit to it very shortly a communication specifically on the pact entitled 'addressing the concerns of young europeans - implementing the european pact for youth and promoting active citizenship'. i believe that the european union really needs to pay more attention to young people, because the results of the referendums show that young people are the first to lose their enthusiasm for europe and to vote against the constitution by a large majority. it is on the basis of this communication that the council bodies will be able to begin to work concretely on the implementation of the pact. as a result, the council is not yet in a position to provide the honourable member with any information on the timetable or the evaluation of progress made under the european youth pact.
i would like to thank the council representative, madam president, both for his reply, which was very comprehensive, and for his particular interest in young people, which should concern us all. the problem is whether the three arms of the pact will be represented proportionately in the forthcoming youth programme. mostly the work-life balance part. the possibility of young people starting new families.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. they denounce the commercialisation of health and education, the shrinking of the remaining public services and their privatisation. they resist and fight the new, worse, insurance systems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the reform of the stability pact by the european council on 22 and 23 march was presented as a relaxation of the criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has not only ignored the suffering of workers, but has also called for even more unfavourable conditions for the implementation of multilateral surveillance and even for a community audit body to be sent to carry out audits. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers' interests. so in greece, using deficits and fiscal discipline, the government has unleashed a series of anti-people measures and austerity programs, ensuring more poverty for the people. the french and dutch referendums seem to be ignored. you say, and they never happened. and that they can continue as before. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept the proposal to exploit fishery resources in the mediterranean because it is unscientific. it is trying to focus only on measures to prohibit the use of fishing gear throughout the mediterranean, whereas everyone knows that the burden on the ecological system in this sea area is a very acute problem and is linked to marine pollution, both in terms of the reckless use of pesticides and industrial pollution in general. we are all very well aware that the composition and fishing possibilities of the mediterranean are different, and this is really due to the different conditions prevailing in the region, which lead to different degrees of eutrophication and, consequently, to different sizes of catches. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the current situation. when these general bans are implemented, they will have tragic consequences for certain areas. the proposal, in the name of protecting fish stocks, reduces fishing capacity, with the immediate consequence of reducing and eliminating the fishing income of small and mediumsized fishermen and, ultimately, their mass retirement from the profession. the result of all the measures proposed will be the massive destruction of fishing communities and the desertification of entire geographical areas, while the expected fishing deficit will be quickly covered by fish farming, whose interests will be strengthened to the benefit of the large monopoly companies operating in this sector. the role of capital in fisheries will thus be strengthened and the social and other historical characteristics it has had up to now will disappear. the monopoly of fishing and the profits of business groups will be strengthened at the expense of small and mediumsized fishermen, workers and the common people, with painful consequences for the marine ecosystem and, more generally, for the environment. we believe that the policy of managing fishing opportunities and developing fisheries cannot be conceived outside the interests of small and mediumsized fishermen. we believe that the development of fisheries must respect the ecological system and the potential of each region, as well as the wider interests of the local community and economy, far from the ambitions and interests of capital. all this must be integrated into a more comprehensive plan which, with the productive fishing cooperative as a lever, will make the most productive use of individual fishing opportunities. in this context, it is possible to assess and require the adoption of appropriate technical measures, scientifically justified and deemed necessary to preserve fish stocks and safeguard the production potential of each region.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr freitas on his excellent report on dolphin conservation. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate mrs fraga on her report on the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. i also take the opportunity of discussing dolphins to refer to an incident which took place in my country. in particular, at the end of may, after a sea storm, a one-kilometre long abandoned net was found in the northern aegean sea, which had been drifting for 10 days in the sea storm and which, when it was flagged, had already caught dozens of dolphins and dozens of rare and endangered cetaceans. there has been an ecological disaster which has come to light and has become known, because there are others which we do not notice. i would like to point out that the north aegean region is a rare and important marine habitat, because the river evros flows into it, the waters of the dardanelles come in, and we must, within the framework of the protection of all the seas, pay particular attention to the aegean. this unfortunate event proves once again that the environment knows no boundaries. the broken nets have spread death and that should concern us i would like to say that we have a duty to protect the environment and that is the direction in which the report by my colleague is heading and that is why we must all vote in favour of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a duty to protect the marine environment. our children have a right to be able to fish. we have an obligation to leave fish in our seas for future generations.
in writing. the resolution on the reform of the un is part of the attempt of the imperialist powers to reactionary revision of un statutes, with the aim of registering and "legitimizing" the temporary imperialist domination as "international law". the resolution, the council and commission statements reveal the eu-us collusion against the peoples and the attempt to shield the aggressive and barbaric policy with the cloak of the un. among other things, they want to secure the right of intervention, of pre-emptive war in the name of countering terrorism and exporting democracy, so as to strike at countries and popular movements that resist imperialism and do not choose capitalism as a social system. the us rejection of the un secretary general's proposals, the proposed eu and us positions seek to build a global mechanism consisting of the un and the imperialist organizations (imf, wto, imf, g8 etc.) to consolidate the dominance of capital. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it has been a key player in the process of european integration. the un is not suffering from democratization measures. what is needed is the overthrow of imperialist domination, the change in the balance of power to create the conditions for international relations based on the equality of states and peace.
in writing. the resolution reaffirms the eu-us "blood ties" at the expense of the peoples, the common "values" of imperialist barbarity that unite them. despite the contradictions that exist on the division of markets and territories, the effort to cooperate to strike countries and peoples is obvious and is expressed by the proposal to conclude an agreement between them with key points: •promoting the "promotion of democracy" plan announced by bush in the new term;•implementing the american middle east plan to control the region;•combating the rising competition with china, india, russia;•jointly organizing the establishment of subservient governments to imperialism;•reacting to the un;•closer nato-eu relations to counter popular resistance. the eu's overall policy as set out in the joint resolution signed by the 'conservative' and social democratic parties proves that the us-eu are two sides of the same coin. they stress the need for the peoples to fight for the overthrow of the imperialist system as a whole and to immediately strengthen their struggles and solidarity to repel the new aggressive plans of the new order. the greek people must not accept the country's participation in the new plans of the imperialists.
mr president, the opening of the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline opens a new era for azerbaijan. however, the new economic challenges that arise must be followed by a series of political and social reforms. because otherwise, they will lead the country to the opposite of the expected results, such as, even greater unemployment and wider social divide. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the european union is committed to the development of the region. we urge the government of the country to respect democratic values, including the right to a different point of view, and to open dialogue with the opposition, in line with the commitments it has made in the framework of the osce and the council of europe. the political environment must be created to promote political pluralism in order to ensure the democratic conduct of the elections next november. we condemn in the strongest terms the murder of the journalist huseynov, the ban on gatherings, such as the one of the mayor of baku on 21 may, the violations of the independence of the judiciary and call on the country to vigorously promote institutional, legal and administrative reforms. the european union is also calling on the government of azerbaijan to take all necessary measures to ensure that the peace process in the country is not disrupted. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the european union is prepared to take action in this area. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i have a great deal of respect for mr juncker and, when i think of mr blair succeeding him, i have even more respect for him. my group, contrary to the petty interests and demagoguery of mr blair and others, is calling for a stronger community budget. we want a europe with ambition and solidarity for its citizens: more united, stronger, more social, more democratic with a stronger european parliament. we say a clear 'no' to neoliberalism, to nationalistic redistribution, to the transformation of the union into a free trade area. the message from the 'no' of the citizens of france and the netherlands is unthinkable to ignore. the community budget, which some consider too high, represents only 2.5% of the public expenditure of the member states. it has risen in the last seven years to just 8%, when national budgets have increased by 23%. that is why the acquiescence to the blackmail tactics of the six must be stopped.
mr president, in my institutional role in the european parliament i should have spoken about the failure of the brussels summit in terms of cohesion, a failure which saddens us all and creates a problem as regards the timely start of the programmes for the new period, 2007-13, in terms of the community support framework and regional policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the question of the common agricultural policy, for example, was raised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and would they all be prepared to lead the way in cutting back, cutting funding for their own big farmers? the european south, mr president, cannot afford the cost of enlargement, nor can the countries which have hitherto been cohesive. the question of a new model for europe was also raised, but every model for europe needs funding. more europe means more funds. we cannot talk about a new vision for europe with only 2.5% of public expenditure at european level corresponding to the community budget. what europe needs today more than ever is leadership with courage and vision. leadership that looks to the next generation, not the next election. the european union must not be seen by our political leaders as a hangman for its own responsibilities or as a necessary evil. we must show the people what europe really is: a choice for peace, cooperation, development and social cohesion.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the luxembourg presidency, mr juncker himself, and the foreign ministers, mr asselborn and mr schmit, have confirmed this in the most decisive way. the european situation has brought luxembourg to the presidency at a particularly crucial juncture in the process of european integration. the european union is now facing an institutional, political and strategic crisis, following the negative votes in france and the netherlands. this crisis was confirmed and reinforced by the wreck of the european council, despite the courageous and honest effort made by the luxembourg presidency to find a reasonable compromise on the new financial perspective. the european council, mr president, has not only lacked political will. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is a european council of political confusion and political audacity, which was also reflected in the conclusions. it is a european council of deconstruction and deregulation with the objective of deepening european integration. it is a european council of the dismantling of political union and social cohesion. it is a european council characterized by the fear of the leaders against the fear of the citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. since the manufactured fear of enlargement has affected the ratification process in france and the netherlands, it was considered appropriate to devote two lines, almost in secret, to the conclusions on a strategic plan which contributes to peace, security, stability, development and, above all, to the political and social democratisation of the countries to join. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the accession of the new member states to the european union, and in the negotiations for the accession of the new member states to the european union. the european union is a strategic project, mr president, which has made it a powerful international actor, and no one is defending it today in the face of the fear that has been cultivated by the most conservative and xenophobic political forces in europe. the luxembourg presidency was fortunate to have an institutional partner in its difficult work in the european parliament. but at the same time, she had the misfortune of having a timid, weak and politically unprepared president of the european commission at her side. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the luxembourg presidency has above all the courage to proceed, in these difficult times, to a referendum.
mr president, after congratulating the prime minister of luxembourg and the other members of the presidency, i should like to refer to the two points which dominated the last european council. the first point is the procedure for ratifying the constitution. the latter, a posteriori, entering a period of reflection brings to the surface creative material of institutional policy and self-critical strategy. and i ask the vice-president of the commission: how does the commission intend to respond to citizens' criticism of over-regulation and the excessive technicality of legislative proposals? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i ask the council representative: is there sufficient consultation and information of civil society before and after the adoption of council decisions? i ask you, mr president of the parliament: the european parliament will be able to play its important role as a political body, as a forum for the creative encounter of the expressed will of the people, the communis opinio? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. if the constitutional crisis has not been overcome by 2007, then we must move either towards a constitutional revision, towards fairness plus or, finally, towards the option of enhanced cooperation. the second point concerns the financial perspective: we are called to realize that ambitious objectives require the necessary financial means. the enlargement also requires increased resources. the restoration of europe's historical and political unity brings to the surface new conditions for cohesion policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the common agricultural policy is the most important policy.
the next item is one-minute interventions on important political issues.
unfortunately, there is currently no interpretation available in the language you have chosen to speak, and therefore your speech will not be translated.
the next item is the report (a6-0188/2005) by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (com (2004) 0391 - c6-0080/2004 - 2004/0127 (cod))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bogdan klish, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on security research (2004/2171 (ini)) (a6-0103/2005)
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal to establish a european security research programme is an initiative which is moving in the right direction. both the european council, in its european security strategy adopted in december 2003, and the european parliament, in its resolution of april 2005, have stressed the need to address international risks and challenges by strengthening european defence and security policy and common foreign and defence and security policy. the problem, mr president, is not merely institutional and political. it's also operational. it is a question of the effective implementation of decisions taken at the level of the european institutions. it is therefore also linked to the european union's ability to move faster in the fields of research, technology and innovation for european security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is true, however, that comparing the united states' investment with that of the european union in internal security, including military industry and defence equipment, is overwhelming, unfortunately to the detriment of the european union and its member states. the european union must move forward because it has every interest in preventing dependence while safeguarding its own interests, the interests of the member states, the security and protection of european citizens. it is also in the european union's interest to strengthen research programmes and policies and to contribute to economic growth, to enhancing competitiveness and to implementing the lisbon strategy. the proposal to include this programme in the seventh framework programme of the european union is particularly important, as is the proposal to finance it with one billion euros a year. the european safety research programme cannot be orientated unilaterally towards technological research. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important step towards the achievement of the objectives of the directive. the problems of international terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration require a broader approach to be tackled effectively, rather than confining the investigation to a police or military logic. the main objectives of the programme include the protection of the external borders and basic infrastructure. these are important objectives concerning the security of the european union because they enhance the visibility of the programme to european citizens. finally, mr president, i believe that it is necessary for us as the european union to ensure that security research does not undermine our collective principles and values of protecting human rights, political and democratic freedoms. in conclusion, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr klich, and to say that tomorrow his report will be voted on by our group.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, it has become almost routine in this chamber to have a legislative framework against terrorism in every plenary session. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of terrorism, and we must not allow the european union to continue to be a victim of terrorism. to deal with the terrorists we have made our lives difficult and at the same time we have made the lives of the civilians more difficult: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. terrorism started showing its teeth 30 years ago. we said it was the stasi, the kgb, gaddafi. you remember the hijackings. now there is no stasi, no gaddafi, no kgb. how does terrorism develop? who feeds her? another issue that he raises is why terrorists attack certain countries. do they hit the big countries? then why aren't they hitting china, brazil, canada? why did the latest generation of terrorists, from all the european countries, choose to strike spain? my country hosted the olympics, we poured billions of euros at the expense of the people, and yet we were not hit by terrorists when they could have been. so we must learn a lesson: violence gives birth to nonviolence. to stop terrorism, we invaded two countries: afghanistan and iran. the result was that in afghanistan opium increased, the opium that kills our children in all countries - many of them in greece - and in iran oil increased from 20 dollars to 60 dollars. new reports on the counterterrorism. but no report puts mr bush in the position that he has put us in. mr blair, mr bush's chief of staff, will be here tomorrow. so let us tell him that he owes us many times more than he is not giving us because oil went from $20 to $60, and as a result the people are unable to pay and we are in this difficult position. i know. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the fight against terrorism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the information society (2004/2204 (ini)) (a6-0172/2005)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr marcin libicki, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the lloyd case (o-0068/2005 - b6-0245/2005)
i'm the deputy editor. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked by the chairman of the committee on petitions, mr libicki, to make the following statement on his behalf, in view of his sudden move to poland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the president, mr libicki, apologizes to the house and to the commission for his absence. the debate this evening on the oral question put by the committee on petitions touches on the core of what many people mean when they talk about a people's europe or, more specifically, european citizenship. the right of referral, as guaranteed by the treaty, implies obligations for all the european institutions and not just for parliament. it is the right of every citizen to refer to parliament in the context of the activities of the european union and to expect a satisfactory response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate on the lloyds reports, ladies and gentlemen, is aimed at getting an honest answer from the commission as guardian of the treaties. if for many years a european law has not been properly applied by a member state; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the union. if it is true that the lloyds reporting agents in the united kingdom, ireland, germany and many countries of the european union suffered enormous financial losses because the first loss assurance directive was not properly implemented, this issue should make us all think about how europe works. citizens have the right to expect that when the council and parliament adopt legislation, it is correctly applied in the member states of the european union without exception. it has come to our attention that the 1997 rapporteurs in the united kingdom state that the community's damage safety directive was introduced late. after a very long period, parliament took exceptional action on this issue by adopting the report by mr roy perry in september 2003 by 358 votes to none and 35 abstentions. long and detailed investigations by the committee on petitions have followed, but what the petitioners are still waiting for is a clear answer to the questions raised in the perry resolution, so that they can finally take their case to the british courts, seeking compensation for the losses they have suffered. if the european parliament has to take the european commission to the court of justice of the european communities for failing to give a clear answer to our question and for failing to give proper account to the european parliament, then i think we should do so without fear, says mr libicki. the question that arises, ladies and gentlemen, is one of proper accountability of the european commission to the european parliament and, subsequently, of the european parliament to the citizens, who are increasingly reporting to us. is our ordinary legislation good enough and is it being applied properly? is there free movement of goods and persons, recognition of professional qualifications? do european citizens have rights? that is the essence of our discussion tonight. the european parliament expects the european commission to decide whether european citizens have rights, to investigate whether the united kingdom has applied the laws on the proper regulation and control of the insurance market for almost twenty years and whether the solvency requirements existed at that time. i would like to ask the commissioner, not you personally, to answer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission believes it has fulfilled its duties under the treaty. when doubts were raised, the commission started an investigation and issued a letter of formal notice and a supplementary letter of formal notice. the commission has answered questions put to it by the parliament to the best of its ability. my predecessor met with representatives of the committee on petitions and answered questions in this chamber, as well as many written questions. i have met with mr libicki to discuss this matter, and am here again this evening to answer parliament’s questions. this is what accountability on the part of the commission amounts to. the commission has acted by deciding to open an infringement procedure and acted again by deciding to close the case when it received a satisfactory answer from the uk authorities. the commission always endeavours to answer parliament’s questions to the best of its abilities. in this case, however, the commission is being asked to pronounce on whether a member state was in conformity with community law during a certain period in the past, and under a different legislative regime to that which is now in place. the commission cannot answer that question because the pre-litigation and litigation proceedings that would have established the answer were not completed.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes) to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies (09812/2005 - c6-0192/2005 - 2005/0064 ((syn)) (a6-0204/2005)
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to repeat that in the deliberations of the council’s ad hoc group on the stability and growth pact, the commission actively supported a number of the amendments tabled by parliament at first reading. unfortunately, as i said in my introductory remarks, the council did not take our advice on board. against this background i can understand the position of the house with regard to some of its initial amendments. however, as i stated earlier, i think the common position is generally acceptable; it is broadly balanced and contains the essential elements initially proposed by the commission. also against the background of the spreading scepticism surrounding the european project, it is important to demonstrate interinstitutional cohesion regarding this important reform project. your agreement with the council’s common position would help reinforce the pact’s credibility and political support, sending out a clear message of reform. finally, let me reassure you again that the commission is firmly committed to implementing the pact rigorously and even-handedly. the adoption of the reformed pact will help maintain and enforce the solid basis on which that is done. we would like the european parliament to join the commission in encouraging member states to pursue macro-economic stability. the commission is committed to informing parliament regularly about relevant developments in budgetary surveillance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your speech, and i hope that your european actions will be as inspiring as yours. but i must say that the union has entered a period of crisis, a crisis of credibility, and i will explain why: - in march 2000, the european council agreed on the lisbon strategy. the review last march decided to put more emphasis on research and innovation. - i know . in october 2002, the european council agreed on the financial framework for agriculture 2007-13 in brussels. - i know . in april 2003 in athens, all the heads of state agreed and signed the enlargement. and that brings us to today. the lisbon strategy: the council's budgetary proposal is in fact cancelling it. agriculture: mr prime minister, the compromise on agriculture is being called into question by you yourself. enlargement: you welcome the 10 new member states, but with less money. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. mr president, i share your views on the need for reforms to make us more competitive in the international arena, but we must make the case for this position in accordance with the agreements. and i ask you: - firstly, given that the compromise on agricultural funds was reached after mutual and painful concessions, given that the basic principle of international law is the principle of pacta sunt servanta, and finally given that it is impossible to reach a new compromise with 25 member states today and with the existing institutional framework, do you think it is appropriate to go into this matter? - secondly, what budget do you propose to use .......... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. the report on the 'status of members of the european parliament', i.e. the creation of a new framework of privileges, is a challenge for the peoples of europe, and the recent vote by france and the netherlands against the so-called euro-constitution, which expresses the general opposition of the peoples to the anti-people policy of the eu. the european union and the european parliament are therefore not entitled to take such decisions. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (ces) has called for the commission to present a report on the state of the economy in the eu, and to propose a new approach to the problem of unemployment. it is also a challenge to the workers who are crushed by the new anti-people lobby of the eu to set a monthly salary of €7000 for meps, whereas the monthly salary in greece is €572.30. the workers and the popular strata must draw conclusions from the common position of the conservative and social democratic parties, which accelerate the attack on the people's incomes and living standards to increase the profits of capital and at the same time ensure privileges for the political representatives of the bourgeoisie.
in writing. the community code on the crossing of the external and internal borders of the eu applies the racist and anti-immigrant decisions of seville and thessaloniki, to create an eu - a fortress, hostile, inhuman towards the victims of the policy of imperialism and international monopoly capital, when they try to cross its borders. a foreign national who wants to enter and stay in the eu for a maximum of 3 months must not only be provided with the necessary documents, show that he has legal grounds, sufficient financial means to live for that period, give detailed information on where/how he will stay, but also not be "listed as undesirable in the schengen information system" or be considered to "pose a threat to public policy, internal security, public health or the international relations of a member state". considering that 89% of schengen information system records are of unindicted persons (based on unconfirmed 'informant' complaints), the arbitrariness and repression against foreigners is enormous. the eu's anti-migration policy is also evidenced by the vertical fall in the approval of asylum applications, by the preparations for the creation of concentration camps for migrants and by the fact that the eu has not yet adopted a comprehensive policy on asylum. the eu opens its borders only to the extent that it serves the interests of capital for cheap labour. the kke votes against the cashman report.
in writing. the report also puts the research sector at the service of the eu's imperialist policy, while ensuring that capital is financed in this area by allocating 1 billion euros from the taxation of the workers and popular strata of the eu member countries. under the pretext of 'security' and 'threats', it is promoting further militarization of europe, improving the technology to support aggressive actions and upgrading the eu's military power so that it can better compete with the us for control of markets and countries. while it is difficult to distinguish between internal and external security, it also uses the investigation to improve internal repression against popular movements in the member states. all systems, including the space-based satellite positioning system, are put at the service of the programme for security research. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a resolution on the situation in the community. the peoples of the eu must intensify their struggle against the eu and their indiscipline in its imperialist policy.
mr president, the british prime minister, before he even took over the presidency of the council, said that he was not interested in the 4% of the population who are farmers, who produce 2% of the gross income. but not all europeans live in mayfair, in london, or in the champs-elysees, in paris, or in the via veneto, in rome. there are many europeans living in the periphery, in the rural areas. it is a tragedy in my own country, one of the first to join the european union. factories are closing, people are leaving to buy from neighbouring countries, unemployment has reached the highest levels in europe, we have two and a half million illegal immigrants, more than italy of 45 million; the situation is dramatic. we're not begging for it. we ask you to secure our borders, the borders of europe! we have 40 to 50 breaches a day. that forced us to give $5.2 billion for equipment. if we were to give that money to agriculture, if we were to give it to the factories, we would not need to ask mr blair for money today. save us, please, from the threats of turkey!
the illegal trafficking of women and minors as commodities from third countries into the union for the purpose of sexual and labour exploitation is a phenomenon that is constantly growing. the situation, which has reached epidemic proportions, has preoccupied the union and the competent institutions without, however, achieving a substantial reduction in the absolute figures. in greece, in particular, we have hundreds of children arriving every year illegally, children who do not enjoy any of the rights that adult refugees enjoy, who are housed in juvenile/minor mixed detention centers, who are held beyond the prescribed three-month limit and who are not given any care after their detention. the lack of a system for identifying and registering minors, the lack of information about their rights in a language they understand is reflected in the fact that in recent years no child has been granted asylum. hundreds of them wander, while few reach non-governmental organizations. the modern slave trade, which traffics 40,000 women and children a year in greece alone, must be given our attention and addressed.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on mr maaten's report comes at a time when the european union is experiencing a breakdown in its institutional convergence and many of its policies, which are the backbone of its functioning, are being criticised. the economic recession, the slow growth, the limitation of social policies, the rise in unemployment, the inelastic fiscal outlook, the rise in inflation have led european citizens to a dead end or to a certain degree of confusion, with the result that they have voted for another europe, and this because they have been given the impression that bad europe and the bad euro are to blame for everything. the commission's communication, and more particularly the balanced report by mr maaten, has an important role to play and can send a message to the european citizens. european citizens need to be informed in depth about the contribution of the euro to their daily lives and about the functioning of the european union in terms of economic prosperity, social solidarity and the coherent and decisive implementation of the policies of the lisbon strategy. the analysis of the central bank and the commission can help in this direction. the revised communication policy for the euro should be clear to the new countries in view of their membership of the euro area. to improve the information and communication strategy, it would be better to focus on the following: focusing efforts to popularise the single currency on specific groups of citizens, consumers, urban centres, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can adapt better. in conclusion, i would say that in any case the message that should be given is that the euro and emu in general is perhaps one of the most successful projects of the european union and as such should be regarded by all european citizens. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
mr president, the european central bank, steadfastly committed to the anti-people policy of the european union, the maastricht treaty and the lisbon strategy, has been characterized throughout its history as a ruthless enforcer of the interests of capital at the expense of the wages, social gains and living standards of workers. the motivation behind this policy is to strengthen the competitiveness of capitalist monopolies by reducing the price of labour. the european central bank is the european union's institution with full and exclusive responsibility for monetary policy and it is a fervent defender of its social analogy, arguing that its sole objective is price stability. the price stability and low inflation in the euro area, to which the rapporteur refers, have not protected workers - who are not protected by them - from the precision and poverty that are growing even more after the surge in oil prices and the reduction in wages. in the name of competitiveness and in order to meet the demands of capital, a new anti-people offensive is under way in the member states. a new package of anti-people measures is being put forward. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. this is at least a sign of contempt for the peoples of europe! there is no time limit for further waiting on the part of the employees. the reorganisation and development of the struggles is the only way to meet the modern needs of the working class family.
the rapporteur. mr president, the directive under discussion concerns the restriction of the use of phthalates in toys and childcare articles for the protection of children, who are among the most vulnerable groups of the population; this is because phthalates, commonly used in large quantities to give plasticity to toys and childcare articles, present scientifically proven risks. the european commission therefore proposed the directive under discussion six years ago, and in fact proposed a ban on the placing on the market of products intended for the mouth of children under three years of age and at the same time additional provisions for the labelling of all other products. the commission has also proposed a temporary ban until the directive is finally adopted. the european parliament, at first reading, had called for a ban on all phthalates in toys and childcare products for children under three and for labelling for those intended for children over three but which could be put in the mouth of children under three. it took five years after parliament's first reading for the member states in the council to reach a common position. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction. first, the six phthalates are no longer treated as substances of the same category and of the same risk to children's health on the basis of the scientific reports of the competent scientific committee. the council divides them into two categories: for the first three phthalates, namely dehp, dpp and bbp, a total ban on all toys and childcare products is proposed. this is because the risk assessment has shown that these substances are carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction. the council's position is clear. for the second category of the three remaining phthalates, namely dimp, didp and bnop, the council proposed a partial ban; in particular, it prohibits the use of these substances by children under three years of age and for articles which may come into contact with the mouth and allows the use and, of course, the placing on the market of these substances by children over three years of age. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of these substances is not compromised. and i can tell you that there is experimental data in mice and rats, which shows that these three substances cause neoplasms in the liver and kidneys. however, the full human impact assessment has not been carried out, so the relevant risk assessment has not been completed, but the precautionary principle must be taken into account, which the council does by prohibiting these combinations for all toys and childcare articles for children under three years of age, but allows it for children over three years of age, and even without any safety features, for example, labelling to warn parents. in the committee on the environment we ended up calling for the ban of the three phthalates intended to be placed in contact with the mouth or in toys and childcare articles which could be placed in contact with the mouth and we called on the european commission to draw up guidelines for the implementation of the directive. i would like to say, without further ado, that after the vote by the european commission, it appears that there is always room for informal discussion with the council in the presence of the commission. we finally came to an agreement. the package of agreements includes the following: first, a ban on the use of these three esters in all articles that can be put into the mouth by children; secondly, the review of all applications of the substances in question for medical devices; thirdly, the inclusion of child hygiene in the definition of childcare; fourthly, the european commission's adoption of guidelines on what it means that these toys or childcare articles can be put in the mouths of children. finally, the commission's study on the risks of plastic articles containing fragrances. i am very pleased with the result, because the council has finally been convinced by parliament's argument that it is not possible, once there are legitimate concerns about a substance, to allow it for children over three years of age and to prohibit it only for children under three years of age. i would like to recommend to parliament without reservation that it vote in favour of these amendments, which, i repeat, we have agreed with the council and the european commission. i am sure that this will avoid the painful formal conciliation and that this directive will be published and become part of community legislation immediately after the vote at second reading, as i hope that it will be voted on tomorrow. i would ask that we do not move at all from this package of agreements that we have reached and therefore vote in favour of what the five parties are proposing, namely: ppe-de, pse, alde, greens and gue/ngl.
the rapporteur. madam president, just last week the whole world showed its sensitivity by giving a thunderous "present" to the fight against hunger and poverty in africa. they were not just musical notes, they were messages of humanity and solidarity on a continent where millions of human lives, and among them young children, are desperately asking for a helping hand. the european union, along with other countries, was the first to respond to the global call. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report on the exploitation of children in developing countries, with a special focus on child labour, is the first action to deal entirely with the phenomenon of child labour, which has become a worldwide concern, particularly in africa, asia and central and south america. in particular, 352 million children under 18 are working. about half of these are in environments that involve risks to their physical and mental health, while 1,800,000 children are used in prostitution and pornography rings. this is not just a problem for developing countries, but also for the european union. it is enough to remind you that in eastern europe and the mediterranean region 5 million children are exploited in the workplace. but what is alarming is the 121 million children, 65 million of them girls, who have never been to school. in 1990, the world summit for children included the goal that by the year 2000, all the world's children should have access to education and at least 80% of them should be able to complete basic education. the countries must realise that if they do not invest primarily in the quality of their human resources, they are doomed to perpetuate their underdevelopment. this is the main point i want to make in my report. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the rapporteur. mr president, i think that today the european parliament, after the failure of the council to reach an agreement on the budgetary perspective and obviously on the framework for regional policy for the period 2007-2013, is sending a clear message to both the citizens and the council: that we are here, we continue to support cohesion policies and we will work towards having a strong budget that is sufficient in any case for regional policy. in this context, i would ask the council to review the matter immediately and to reach a decision shortly, and in any case before the end of 2005, so that there is enough time for the member states and regions to prepare their programmes and so that we do not have the problems of delays in the start of programmes that we have had in the present period. i would also like to point out that parliament is sticking to the position it took in the béguin report on the financing of cohesion policies, and this is also the case in my report. we support a package of 0.41% of the gross national income of the member states of the european union, which translates into eur 336 billion for the period 2007-13. we believe that any restriction on the expenditure of regional policy would undermine its credibility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. first of all, we propose that the funds lost as a result of the strict application of the n+2 rule for regional policy be reused. we propose that these funds, instead of being returned to the net contributors to the european budget, be reused by cohesion countries and regions which have demonstrated by their performance that they can make use of other such funds. secondly, we are calling for political decisions to compensate the regions and member states most affected by the strict application of the new rules proposed by the european commission on the allocation of funds. we believe that this is a proposal which should be considered by the council. i imagine it will be considered, because it has a direct bearing on the fairness of the distribution of funds. we shouldn't put math above everything. the commission has also proposed amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment, which would allow the member states to take account of the environmental impact of the use of energy from renewable sources. we are proposing aid starting at 85% and going up to 60%, significantly higher than the european commission's forecast. as regards the natural effect regions, i.e. those regions which no longer meet the criteria for eligibility for the convergence objective but which will receive transitional funding under the competitiveness and employment objective, we propose that the actions to be implemented and financed for these regions should be the same as those for the convergence objective, if the regions so wish. we also call for more favourable treatment of these regions and of the regions which are the victims of statistics on state aid, investment property. we support the creation of a community performance reserve which should provide incentives for all member states to improve their performance and achieve real growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, my report makes accessibility for disabled people an explicit condition for action to be financed through the funds. we believe that all projects which are not accessible to these citizens should be excluded from the structural funds and their financing suspended. it is the least the european parliament can do. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, when we speak of the acquis communautaire, we must take into account the contribution of the european parliament, the experience and the extremely constructive contribution of meps such as the rapporteur, mr hadjidakis, who not only with the report now before us on the proposal for a regulation laying down provisions for the european structural funds, but also with the previous third report and the working document last december, has contributed to maintaining and strengthening economic and social cohesion, and now calls for a special mention of the territorial cohesion of the european union. the recommendations in the resolution and the specific proposals for certain changes or additions to the commission proposal will hopefully help to form a politically acceptable position and the council to draw up a credible budget for the period 2007-13. we welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a balanced, multi-centred model of sustainable development for the whole of the european union with balanced development of the regions of the convergence objective and the objective of regional competitiveness and employment as well as flexible european cooperation. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am pleased to note that the report includes specific recommendations, such as extending the principle of equality between men and women to ensure that there is no discrimination of any kind. this is complemented by a request to assess progress in promoting equality between men and women and social inclusion. it is also proposed that accessibility for disabled people be a condition for the benefits of the funds to be guaranteed. we also note the rapporteur's suggestion that the calculation of the cofinancing rate should not affect the participation of non-governmental and non-profit-making organisations in the activities of the structural funds. as regards the european social fund, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr peneda, on his willingness to cooperate so that the proposals in the new regulation on this fund will be effective, especially for european citizens, men and women, with flexibility in the eligibility of areas of convergence and regional competitiveness. we welcome the fact that the peneda proposal emphasises the horizontal integration of equality between men and women and the elimination of discrimination in all policies through specific actions aimed at increasing the sustainable participation of women and promoting their vocational training and development in employment, in line with the lisbon strategy. we note that the publication of the activities financed by the proposal for a regulation of the european social fund is not very clear, which is necessary for those concerned to have easy and rapid access to them.
mr president, last year we said yes to the new countries and yes to their financing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece has three thousand islands that we all want to visit in july and august but no one asks how they live the rest of the months; without oil many times, without a doctor, without transportation. we must therefore see that this 0.41% of the budget is not enough. the commission's proposal is insufficient to cover the outermost regions fairly. we were told that greece would get 24 billion. that is what the former prime minister, mr simitis, said. the new prime minister, mr. karamanlis, is coming and he says that we'll get more than half of the fourth package. these are ridiculous settings. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union cannot go on like this. the member states must be encouraged to absorb the funds. in 2003 we got 2.6 billion - so mrs hübner wrote - and last year we got 1.4 billion. this year, not a single euro has been registered, and seven months have already passed. money that is missing from the market, missing from the farmers, missing from production, missing from productivity. we must stop seeing people as numbers! because if we continue with this policy of mr blair, you will know that your next meal will not be served with tomatoes but with microchips and instead of vegetables and fruit you will get cd-roms and disks. this is a place for people, not for robot cops!
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the five rapporteurs. i would like to express my warmest congratulations to mr hadjidakis and mr casa for the excellent work they have done. i shall refer to mr casa's report and defend my amendments. the casa report is trying to attach great importance to balance and respect for the environment and to the proper management of fish stocks. i would add that we must also look at how to protect the european fishermen. therefore i have three things to suggest: firstly, allowing environmentally friendly fishing gear. secondly, the possibility of acquiring equipment to improve the safety and health conditions of fishermen; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing gear. we cannot send our fishermen fishing with engines that are 20 and 25 years old. the second part, as far as aquaculture is concerned, is that it must be protected, it must be increased, it must produce more fish. why would you do that? because the global demand for fish has increased. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. the european union must therefore support the sector as much as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. that is what must be of the utmost importance. it doesn't matter if they're small, medium or large. i hope that the small ones will become big and the big ones bigger, so that they can produce more fish, which the planet needs, instead of overfishing.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, and in particular mr hadjidakis, on the very good work they have done throughout the whole procedure. it is an undeniable fact that cohesion policy is a growth engine for the european union. cohesion policy has contributed to growth and job creation with positive convergence effects in the regions and the member states of the european union. the instruments of cohesion, the structural funds, bring europe closer to the citizen, contribute to development, and demonstrate the principle of solidarity in practice. today, cohesion policy is faced with major challenges and widening disparities between the europe of the twenty-five: urban development but also rural development. today, political cohesion is called upon to contribute to the achievement of the lisbon and gothenburg objectives. we have no choice but to guarantee the structural funds the minimum necessary resources to enable them to function effectively, namely 0.41% or the minimum amount of eur 336 billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the structural funds are used effectively and that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, i speak as the author of the book 'women today', a bestseller in my country, and i address my female colleagues. if they love the women of turkey and feel real solidarity with women, they should not vote for the report. what are the facts? the following are described in a news item published a few months ago: a 14-year-old girl was raped by her uncle, she told her family, there was a family meeting, and they killed the girl. and the killers are free. this is the reality. that's the situation. we cannot do reports from brussels. we'll do exhibitions if we go to diyarbakir, see how the woman lives! in medieval condition! racism is rampant against women. the turkish education system cultivates it. the patriarchal structure of the family mandates the rape and beating of the woman. if we want to show respect for women anywhere in the world, we cannot vote for this report. and mr. erdogan, the prime minister of turkey, took the woman back ten years to turkey. where they had a female prime minister, today the prime minister's wife wears a headscarf. this is the backwardness of women in turkey!
mr president, one of the most important issues on which turkey's european course will be judged in the coming years is the upgrading of the protection of human rights. in this context, the improvement of the position of women in all areas in turkey is of vital importance, especially given that gender equality and respect for human rights, and above all for women, are now a community acquis. the european union must stand by turkey in this adjustment effort. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. first, that the government agency responsible for women's rights should develop a comprehensive policy with adequate funding. the important problem of violence against women, whether in the form of honour crimes or in the form of domestic violence, must be eliminated and protected by any government policy. the participation of women in turkish political life is minimal. it should be improved by increasing quotas or more active participation of women in both democratic parties and in the government itself. in conclusion, i should like to express my support for mrs bozkurt's report, in which she has really tried to put forward practical and substantive proposals to help the country's pre-accession process to the european union.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. the report on the proposal for a directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women is being presented today in its new form after months of painstaking work by the rapporteur, mrs niebler. in the course of this process, all parties were given the opportunity to express their views and to be heard by those who contributed to the formulation of today's proposal. the rapporteur deserves warm congratulations for combining the commission's suggestions for simplifying the codification of older legislation with the simultaneous extension of the scope of horizontal policies in key areas of european law, such as the area of wages and insurance. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i find that the guarantee of equal treatment in the workplace is improving, from access to training, access to employment, to career advancement and, in particular, to pay. the proposal strengthens the principle of subsidiarity, since it repeatedly calls on the member states to decide on individual measures for equal treatment. the fundamental right to effective legal aid and deterrent sanctions for harassment are also guaranteed. the difference in approach between the recasting procedure and the co-decision procedure should not lead the commission to continue a feud between parliament and itself. the demographic problem in the european union requires that equal opportunities for men and women be granted in respect of parental leave, which is decided by a directive between the commission and the social partners only. the commission is also invited to propose a recast of the directive. the disparities arise precisely during periods of special employment of women with minor children or with persons in need of protection. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one. we also ask the council to show its political will. the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i will speak in greek. either i'll talk too fast and no one will translate, or i'll talk too fast or i'll talk slower. please for your patience! how many no-fly lists are there in america today, and how do you avoid misidentifications? how many and how do they add names to these lists? for what purposes, and how is the temptation to use them for other purposes avoided? how safe are names and data from misuse and access? how effective are lists in tracking terrorists when it is known that names of potential terrorists are not even on the lists, so that the airlines do not know and do not leak that they are being monitored? finally, how can one see and correct one's data? these are not my questions. they have been put by the us congress itself to the us government. and if they are problematic questions for american citizens, they are doubly problematic when european citizens are involved. the commission must demand cooperation with america and try to co-formulate policies that concern us. commissioner, in march 2005 the congressional research service produced a report on this very subject. i would inform you that it states that the pnr data of european passengers will be used in the secure flight programme, which is a programme that concerns only domestic and not international flights, contrary to what you said. i'll give you the page and the data if you want. and i'm going to hang up. there are three great dangers now: the citizens should not control the authorities, but the authorities should control and monitor the citizens. (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs for the cooperation we have had, so that today you have a report which i believe is comprehensive and gives some real guidelines for the future of the european union's relations with iraq. there is no doubt that the situation in iraq since the end of the military operations has been difficult and unfortunately it is getting more difficult every day. the first point i want to make is that security is the most important issue facing iraq today. and it's important not only because it costs thousands of lives every day, but because addressing the problem of safety is a prerequisite for doing anything else. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, because certain security problems have their origin in the presence of foreign military forces there, i think it would be an important step to replace the military forces with a united nations peacekeeping force. and that is one of the main proposals in my report. it is certainly not something that can be done in 48 hours, it is certainly a decision that definitely needs to be discussed, it is certainly a decision that must be based on a decision of the united nations security council. but in my opinion it is necessary. the third point i want to make is about reconstruction. after the war, iraq is a state in which all social networks have been dismantled. so reconstruction should not be seen as a simple accounting construction process, there is of course a question of constructions, but there is also a question of rebuilding and orienting a society, and the rebuilding and orienting of a society involves politics, involves economics, involves social issues, involves culture. the key point in the process of global reconstruction is certainly a process which has just begun, namely the drafting of the new constitution. it is clear, and it must be clear to all of us, that the future of iraq is primarily in the hands of the iraqi people; and that's the way it should be. on the other hand, it is very important that the european union, with its tradition of democracy, should propose, through the constitutional process, that there should be a democratic society. the european union is also committed to the development of a progressive, socially sensitive society, one which reflects the pluralism of iraq. finally, and i will end with this, the presence of the european union both in the reconstruction and throughout the whole of iraq, a country with a great history, is something that is provided for in this report and something that must be supported. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, are we afraid of the truth or ashamed of it? are we afraid of it or ashamed of it, george? the truth is that we have an occupying army and we have an unjustified invasion by the americans, the british and the spanish. that's the truth! and in the occupation that we experienced and you experienced in the '40s with the germans we had executions and kidnappings. that's what we did to the conqueror. and that is what the people of iraq are doing today. and he's doing it right! the occupation forces must leave! let this state find its way! to make up for the evil they've done! let them have the oil and for $60 a barrel they'll find their way! as long as there is an occupying army, there will be crimes. let them know! it's a great truth. we've been there. when stalin entered the interior of greece in '44 '49, we were killed for many years. the occupation army must leave. that's the right thing to do. we should tell the truth! let's not be ashamed! we are not going to come here and legislate on the basis of the security of strasbourg and brussels! let's go say what we say in basra! we should go tell baghdad what we're saying. that's where the people are, that's where the truth is, that's where the problem is. long live the democracy! long live the freedom! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, i welcome the british initiative and hope that it will have real results, because it is true that despite the announcements made so far by the leaders of the powerful states, little progress has been made, and this is because humanitarian aid alone can provide temporary relief but cannot bring about real results. aid can only be effective if it is combined with a systematic effort to develop trade and if it focuses on the creation of infrastructure in education and health care. the aid must also be the vehicle for combating the political corruption which is now a permanent regime in most unfortunately african states, because today in africa the plunder is mainly done by corrupt african politicians or by guerrillas supported often by international financial interests. however, particular attention should be paid to the management of resources through close cooperation and supervision of the various international organizations and non-governmental organizations. only such an effort will make it possible to distribute and use aid properly with a long-term objective and development of these countries, which will help them to eradicate poverty. all the other things that are heard, i think, are just covering the surface of the subject and not getting to the bottom of it.
rapporteur.– mr president, the oral amendment is this: at the end of the amendment tabled by the green group, we have to add the words 'within the programme'. i think the green group agrees with this proposal, as do all the other political groups.
rapporteur.– mr president, i want to delete the word ‘erdf’ in amendment 39, tabled by the socialist group, and replace it with the word ‘funds’, in order to cover all the structural funds and, of course the cohesion fund.
the rapporteur mr president, i have the english text and i am addressing the green group. i would like to change the figures, because the number of victims is changing every day. i suggest that '100,000' and '1,700' are changed to 'thousands'. that is one suggestion. the second suggestion is that 'us troops' should be replaced by 'foreign troops', because there are troops from other countries as well as the united states.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am reading the english text again. it is an addition: a new recital. whereas the war in iraq, its various aspects and its consequences continue to be a sensitive issue for public opinion and governments in europe and the united states. (the president declared that there was no objection to the oral amendment being taken into account)
in writing. i supported the hadjidakis report, as did the vast majority of my political group, because: · it supports regions at risk of being affected by the 'statistical effect' of enlargement. · it called for decentralised areas to be treated as special cases in terms of their access to the structural funds. · it proposes that the resources not spent as a result of the n+2 rule be redistributed to areas that can use them. · it rejects any re-nationalisation of regional policy expenditure. · it calls for fair treatment of island and sparsely populated areas. · it highlights the rights of people with disabilities as a top priority of cohesion policy. the amendments i tabled with other members of the group of the european united left: · they reinforce the text and make it clear to the european commission and the council that promoting competitiveness and entrepreneurship cannot be at the expense of sustainable development and cohesion. · they are calling for increased resources for the structural funds and the cohesion fund because an unequal europe cannot be sustainable. · they call for better control of public aid so that it does not become an incentive for companies to relocate within the union at the expense of workers in the various regions. "
in writing. the kke votes against the reports on the structural funds of the fourth framework programme 2007-2013, because they serve the anti-people policy of the eu, the safeguarding and increasing the profits of capital. the structural funds are used by governments to strengthen the plutocracy of the member states, the imperialist plans of the eu, the concentration and centralisation of capital, the expansion of monopolies. to promote capitalist restructuring at the expense of workers' wage and social rights, health, welfare, education, sweeping changes in the rural economy and other sectors. they are used for ideological terrorism, military spending of the eu and nato imperialist aggression, corruption and buying of consciences to manipulate the popular working class movement. the law of uneven growth is relentless. the social and regional contradictions are becoming more acute rather than less acute. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the allegations of promoting eu convergence and cohesion policy through the structural funds are the biggest fraud against workers, women, farmers, the popular strata. greece is a typical example, because according to statistics seven greek regions, 80% of the population, are at risk of being excluded from objective 1 funding from the structural funds.
i would like to refer to the bozkurt report on the situation of women in turkey. the eleven new democracy meps supported the report and indeed took part in its formulation with a variety of amendments. we attach great importance to this report for several reasons: firstly, it stresses that women's rights are an integral part of human rights, the european acquis and the obligations of the candidate countries to adopt and implement it. secondly, it sets the framework within which we must move in our negotiating process with turkey. the report stresses that the european commission must take account of the situation of women and turkey's obligations in this part of the community acquis in the report it will draw up and which will form the framework for the negotiations between the european commission and turkey. our reservation is about the penal code, which is why we voted against paragraph 4. we welcome the implementation of the penal code in question, but we note that this is a satisfactory point so far and we must encourage steps in this direction. but the penal code is not only to be applied, it must also be revised, because it does not refer to honor crimes. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. addition, as last paragraph to the oral explanation of vote already made by ms kratsa after the votes of the 06/07/05: the new members of the european parliament voted against paragraph 4 which commends the turkish government for the recent legal changes whereby honour crimes are punishable by life imprisonment and also provides for the punishment of accomplices and accessories to honour crimes. this paragraph does not reflect reality because unfortunately honor crimes are not yet explicitly provided for in the new criminal code, while the sentence of life imprisonment can be reduced from 12 to 24 years (article 29 of the criminal code). the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish authorities are committed to the development of the turkish economy. we expect turkey to introduce new legislation and political practices to protect women's rights and to eliminate all discrimination at legislative, social, political and economic levels.
in writing. the report on iraq reflects the eu's efforts to create the conditions for a greater role in the division of the region. already since the athens summit in 2004 and subsequent resolutions, the eu has legitimized the imperialist war against iraq, recognized the occupation government, proving that it has a unified imperialist policy against the peoples with the us. this is also reflected in the eu's approval of the us-nato plan for the greater middle east, which seeks to control the region's resources and countries in order to safeguard the interests of multinationals, capital and imperialist domination. at the same time, the rivalries between the imperialists for a bigger share of the spoils are intensifying. there can be no solution for the iraqi people as long as there is foreign intervention and occupation by american and european troops. we are opposed to the report calling for the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces as a condition for a solution to be found by the iraqi people, who alone are competent to determine their future. the european union must be prepared to take action against the iraqi regime, and the united states must be prepared to take action against the iraqi regime. the right of peoples to determine their own destiny is non-negotiable.
mr president, i fully agree with my colleague, mrs doris rack, that srebrenica must be a living memory. the tragedy of the thousands of victims marks and imposes a turning point and the definitive transition from the region's turbulent past to a new era of peace, security and prosperity. it marks and enforces the transcendence of nationalist standards and historic-cultural work through dialogue and consensus. the european union has failed to emerge as a credible force for producing and exporting security in its neighbourhood. if the reason was the immaturity of the european political system, then the message is the need to equip the european union with the qualities of a single and authentic identity policy. the western balkans continue to lag significantly behind in terms of economic development and regional integration. no one is questioning the efforts of the european union. but the approach of each balkan state on its own has proved inadequate. in my view, what is needed is a forward-looking and coherent strategic plan for the region, a single contractual framework for a privileged partnership between the eu and the western balkans. i am talking, commissioner, about a plan which will consolidate the development priorities of each country into a single regional whole. the european union's programming interventions should be of a cross-border, interregional nature. this will help regional economic integration and build a political climate of collectivity, cooperation and trust. the immediate challenge for european union-western balkans relations is concentrated in the following tripartite framework: structured political dialogue, cross-border infrastructure networks, opening up markets. i wish the british presidency good luck.
mr president, in a few days it will be ten years since the greatest atrocity committed in europe since the end of the second world war, that of srebrenica. it is one of the darkest pages in european history and culture. today we have an obligation to strengthen historical memory, we have an obligation to honour the innocent victims of the yugoslav ethnic conflict, the muslims, the serbs, the croats, without selective sensitivities and without any blood compensation logic. ten years later, bosnia remains deeply divided. ten years later, this country has five presidents and two prime ministers and survives by artificial means. the international community and the european union must move forward and take initiatives to revise the dayton agreement towards a functioning federal, democratic and multinational state. the european union has a political and strategic responsibility to defend and strengthen the european perspective and the integration of the balkan countries into the european institutions. the european union must be able to play a decisive role in the process of enlargement, and the european union must be able to play a decisive role in the process of enlargement. if we lie to the people in the name of political expediency, we will have helped the most extreme nationalist forces to prevail. europe made a lot of mistakes in the 1990s. he mustn't repeat them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regular visits to brussels and strasbourg by chinese officials and their meetings with representatives of the european parliament show that china is interested in developing its relations with the european union. but at the same time, they have also brought to the surface differences at political level which are slowly but surely leading the two sides to a forced and harmonious coexistence, because the people's republic of china needs the european union and the european union needs china. i also believe that the presence of china and india in international trade is not a threat, as was recently claimed here in his first appearance by the president-in-office of the council, mr tony blair. on the contrary, it could be argued that it is a good opportunity to bring people together in all areas of cooperation and goodwill, a unique opportunity where the approach at all levels will provide solutions even to outstanding issues, such as between china and taiwan, which calls for secession, the lifting of the arms embargo on china by the european union and the united states and finally the elimination of illegal and undefined exports of products, especially in the pharmaceutical, electronic technology, textiles and clothing sectors. it is no coincidence that in the face of dead ends the chinese ship is trying to compromise. the bilateral relations that china has developed with states around the world are growing and expanding rapidly, from the united states and latin america to europe. but is this enough, or do we need coordinated action by the european union to make these objectives common and uniform? one of these major goals was achieved last week - we heard about it earlier. the signing of cooperation for 'open skies' - an increase in flights between the european union and beijing - by the vice-president of the european commission, jacques barrot, is a sign of goodwill. the european union therefore needs to speed up the procedures for settling the outstanding issues with china. the wind that is blowing will soon be of unimaginable speed and then only a chinese wall could have contained the typhoon called the people's republic of china. in conclusion, i would like to wish london good luck in 2012, a success similar to that of the athens 2004 olympic games, despite the doubts london had at the time. and i hope so, because the uk has the potential, in conjunction with beijing in 2008, to achieve even greater closeness in relations.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i am grateful for those words of welcome. the question raised by the honourable member concerning the parthenon marbles does not fall within the community’s sphere of competence. this is an issue for the united kingdom and greece, which should be addressed bilaterally by their respective authorities.
mr president, after congratulating you on taking over the organisation of the 2012 olympic games and considering that your government has an interest in developing the ecumenical dimension in view of the organisation of these olympic games, i would like to ask the presidency whether it intends to offer its good offices by contacting the british government so that what the european parliament has decided and been asking for since 1998, the return of the parthenon marbles, can be put into practice in the coming years.
president-in-office of the council. as rightly pointed out by the honourable member, as things stand at present and under the agreed framework for eu-nato relations, cyprus and malta do not take part in eu military operations conducted using nato assets, the so called ‘berlin plus’ arrangements. likewise, they do not receive nato classified information or eu classified information containing or referring to nato classified information. this state of affairs necessarily has implications for cyprus and malta’s participation in eu-nato meetings, as well as in some internal eu meetings. it will not, however, affect the rights and obligations of eu states in their capacity as eu members, in particular the entitlement of cyprus and malta under the eu treaty to participate fully and without discrimination in defining and implementing the cfsp, including defence aspects. the council is fully aware of the problem and, in the absence of complete resolution of the issue, has been raising it constantly over the past year with the parties involved. turkey has been asked to help resolve the problem, but for the time being the complexity and the wider implications of the issue have made it difficult to achieve much real progress. questions on how the north atlantic council interprets and applies its own decisions, including that of december 2002, should properly be addressed to nato. i note, however, that requests to extend the scope of eu-nato dialogue beyond military cooperation in crisis management have come mainly from nato. the council is happy to consider such an extended dialogue, provided that all 25 member states are present at the table. i should also like to note that, at the most recent meeting between the european union political and security committee and the north atlantic council on 27 june 2005 in brussels, it proved possible to hold a formal exchange of views on darfur with all 25 eu member states participating. i would like to consider this a first, even though small, step forward to more significant progress on this difficult issue.
i would like to thank in particular the president-in-office of the council, mr alexander, and to wish him good fortune and success in his work and in the work of the british presidency. i understand from your reply, mr alexander, that the european union and the british presidency do not agree with turkey's approach and interpretation of eu-nato relations. you will surely agree that neither cyprus nor malta are member states of the european union with a reduced institutional rate within the european union. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in turkey, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish government is not involved in this matter.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs béguin, and the shadow rapporteurs on the very good work they have done. the need for funding for life+ has a clear european dimension and value. environmental degradation and the growing number of environmental issues, often of a transnational nature, require a change in the pan-european and global approach and approach. to achieve this, it is necessary, alongside investment in the environment, to monitor the environmental actions of all programmes inside and outside the european union for their better functioning and coordination. it is necessary to introduce the concept of nature and biodiversity protection as a key feature in the thematic priorities of the funding of the life+ programme as the main axis of action and actions in the new financial instrument. this programme should be able to finance other actions, such as natura 2000, which no other programme can cover. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i believe, commissioner, that the increase requested by the european parliament is the minimum required for the serious operation of life+, which is aimed at the key aspects of environmental policy, namely information, raising awareness among citizens and, above all, monitoring the implementation of this policy. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the agenda calls for voting time. (results and other details of votes, see minutes)
voting time is over.
in writing. the kke votes against the unacceptable resolution on srebrenica because it attempts to exonerate the murderous war of nato against yugoslavia. to justify the crimes against its own people, who were dismembered by the intervention of the american-european imperialists, causing first a war within the country and then the nato attack. srebrenica is being used as a washing machine for this dirty war and to legitimize the coming moves to re-divide the balkans and the planned imperialist interventions in the wider region. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for srebrenica, we point out that: 'the causes of foreign imperialist intervention cannot be silenced; the peoples remember that the bombs in the market of sarajevo that caused an escalation of the war were the result of the action of foreign intelligence services. the report by mr pimenta, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report which is very much in line with the views of the european parliament and the council. politically, morally responsible for the war, the bombing of the belgrade maternity hospital, the icu, the school in alekseinac, the massacre of civilians, the dropping of sterilization bombs and the destruction of infrastructure are us-european imperialists.
mr president, after congratulating mrs saïfi, i would like to point out to the commission certain points of dialogue, agreement and disagreement on the strategically important sector of european textiles and clothing. i am in favour of opening up markets, i am against neo-protectionism, but i am in favour of the principle of reciprocity. i am in favour of abolishing quotas, but at the same time i am in favour of taking on similar obligations in terms of tariff and technical barriers. i am in favour of international competition against all forms of distortion, in favour of free and balanced trade, against infringements of intellectual and industrial property, against counterfeiting, against piracy, against aggressive economic, social and ecological dumping. i am in favour of consensual solutions with china and memoranda of understanding, but at the same time i am against the piecemeal approach to chinese export aggression in europe. i am very concerned about the still largely closed and opaque chinese market, the persistence of high import barriers, the application of unfair practices and the lack of sufficient cooperation for meaningful dumping investigations. i am in favour of the immediate establishment of a euro-mediterranean trading area based on the principle of reciprocity. i am in favour of adequate community financial means to support research and innovation, particularly in the less favoured regions of the european union. the pros and cons - and they are not the only ones - are the current parameters of an existing challenge to eu-china relations, a challenge to the world trade system in general. in conclusion, i would like to express my sympathy to the families of the victims in london and to join the british presidency in expressing its dismay at the incident.
mr president, the recent eu-china agreement is a positive development and we must acknowledge the important contribution of commissioner mandelson to the final result. the agreement gives the european textile industry a considerable period of time to recover, but above all it provides the opportunity to take, even now, crucial strategic decisions for the reconstruction and modernization of the european textile industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the european union must therefore make full use of the structural policies and the structural funds for the textile industry, make full use of the 7th framework programme for research and development, establish a specific community programme for the development of the textile and clothing sectors, make full use of the institutional capacity of the wto to prevent social and environmental dumping by china and to combat the problem of child labour by adopting, where necessary, specific trade defence measures, by ensuring and defending free and equal access to third countries' markets and unfair competition for european products, by defending the rights of consumers, by taking action to protect intellectual property, by making full use of the wto's institutional capacity to prevent social and environmental dumping by china and to combat the problem of child labour by adopting, where necessary, specific trade defence measures, by ensuring and defending free and equal access to third countries' markets and to unfair competition for european products, by defending the rights of consumers, by taking action to protect intellectual property, by taking the initiative to prevent international competition, by taking the initiative to replace the new comprehensive cooperation agreement on protection of intellectual property, which was concluded in 1985, by a new international agreement on cooperation and protection of intellectual property. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto, but is a member of the wto.
mr president, there was talk of protocol a moment ago. but i am not sure that everyone knows exactly what is happening with turkey and cyprus: turkey does not recognise cyprus. this is a direct insult to all of us here. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. so turkey comes in and says, "i don't recognize the cypriots". it is therefore an insult to all of us who recognise the cypriots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's just not possible. imagine not recognizing spain - your country - imagine not recognizing germany or france: would we have any conversation? there is no distinction between small and large countries. we are equal countries here. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. if europe is to be built on anything, it is on democracy and respect for other peoples. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process.
mr president, the recent tragic air accidents in europe and the rest of the world, for the victims of which you have just expressed your condolences, make it more than imperative that we redefine the boundaries between the requirement to liberalise and avoid distortion of competition in civil aviation in europe and the supreme legal right to maintain a high general level of safety. it is a minimum obligation for the european union to take a legislative initiative to strengthen the legal framework for the harmonization of technical and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation. the european union has a duty to ensure that the safety of its citizens is guaranteed, and that the safety of its citizens is guaranteed. in comparing the legal goods of 'liberation', 'market' and 'flight safety', we are called upon to propose 'flight safety'. that must be the message after the tragic plane crashes.
the european union is not only a force for good, but also a force for good. it is a force for good, and it is a force for good. they give us the opportunity to prove that we are willing to go through the difficulty of supporting one another. i congratulate all those who have spoken before and especially the unanimity they have expressed. we're with them. we all support the portuguese in the fires that have struck them and the central europeans in their floods. i would like to make one point, however. fires and floods have happened before and will continue to happen. but the majority of the scientific community is confident that these days we have increased the intensity of these extreme weather events because of the ecological disaster, because of the climate change that we have brought about. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we know that the european union attaches great importance to this issue and is doing very well. the other major industrial powers, such as the united states, india and china, need to understand that if we do not protect this environment, sooner or later it will be our own. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the forestry sector is not left behind, and that the forestry sector is not left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way. when people leave our forests, it's like the guards leave the army, it's like the guards leave the border. we must re-examine our agricultural policy so that the mountain regions do not become desolate, so that people do not leave the mountain villages.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, commissioner, i was in the secretariat half an hour after the plane crash. i got there very quickly as a journalist and as a politician. the sight was repulsive. you can't imagine what our eyes have seen. children torn to pieces, burned, families torn apart, one family lost five people. i'll convey your sympathy. but is your sympathy enough? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment. what are your controls? why didn't you do the things you said you were gonna do about blacklists last year or the year before, or six months ago? we had to mourn 121 people in the heart of europe to make you sensitive? don't you know there are monkey airlines in europe? you don't know what the conditions are for charter flights? don't you know that the athens fir is not respected by turkey with warplanes and when you fly to go there you are in danger at any time? you don't know all this? yet you shut down the state-owned companies. the people trust alitalia, lufthansa, the big companies. and you are now closing down olympic airlines because, he says, it is financed by the greek state and there is no competition with these "monkey" companies. but we have a thousand islands down there, many of which have airports, so who's going to go in the winter? what plane? you're not funding a plane to go there, to these people who have no connection to the capital. we're funding it. and just because we're helping the olympics, you're shutting us down and driving us to companies like this with a mandate to kill more people. this is the logic that prevails in the european union. that's where we'd like some answers. for that safety of flight at last. you said you sent experts. did you send in a flight safety expert? no one came to the accident scene. you said they went to cyprus. no one came. and those who went, your own people from your own custody, told us they don't even know about piper and cessna. so who are the experts? we're gonna have to be honest here. and here we are to protect the citizens of europe from evil and not to come after as a memorial. this is a crime against the people.
madam president, we do not yet know the exact causes of the recent tragic air accidents of recent months. it is not, however, that they were due to acts of terrorism and attacks whose prevention we have focused our attention exclusively on here in the last few months. instead, it appears that they were caused by a deadly combination of human error and mechanical failure. i therefore call on the european commission to extend its independent inquiry to all airlines in europe on two further issues: firstly, the very serious issue of the intensification of working hours of airline staff, both piloted and non-piloted, in recent years, which is certainly affecting flight safety. secondly, the relationship between flight hours and maintenance hours for each airline's aircraft, as it has developed in recent years, again, i suspect, against safety. commissioner, people are above profits. if europe is unfortunately forgetting this in many areas today in the name of extreme competition, it is time to remember it again at least where human lives are at stake. and we should not wait for tragedies to act afterwards but act before. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the commission for its work and for the work of the committee on budgets. i am also optimistic that, as we move towards the next two phases of the gallileo programme, this unique european project will be able to unleash its full operational potential. i would like to make one criticism, however. the gallileo joint undertaking, which will last until may 2006, provided in its articles of association for the possibility of participating in the capital of the companies in the western sector, with eur 5 million for large companies and eur 250 000 for small and medium-sized companies. this was evidently done to invest the original political agreement between the two governing members, the european community and the european space agency, with some businesslike form. a business model that is supposed to attract private capital. unfortunately, no business at all has entered into the gallileo chapter. this was natural and expected, however, since no incentive had been given for such participation. so it seems that we have a problem when we move from the rhetoric of public-private partnerships to the practice. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, commissioner, we should not be talking about the progress programme but about the programmes which europe hopes to develop through your commission's proposal. the effort to rationalize the financial instruments managed by your commission is therefore to be commended and we hope that it will prove successful in achieving greater coherence and avoiding duplication in the institutionalisation of this new programme. without ignoring the competence of the member states, the aim is to safeguard the acquis communautaire and to apply the open method of coordination in the fields of employment, social protection, the organisation and improvement of working conditions, the fight against discrimination and gender equality. the reduction of the budget lines from 28 to 2 and the harmonisation of the scope of the existing four programmes will hopefully help to support the social policy agenda of the lisbon strategy more effectively. i congratulate the rapporteur on her report because, in her capacity as rapporteur, she accepted all the positive improvements proposed by the committees that gave its opinion, and in particular by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on whose recommendation i was the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the european people's party. in particular, i hope that the future adoption of the provisions by the programme committee, assisted by the four proposed subcommittees, will bring about the desired simplification of use and flexibility in the funding of the programmes in order to make the participation of european networks as well as national and regional non-governmental organisations a reality, to strengthen transnational cooperation and to make the horizontal provision for the elimination of all forms of discrimination and gender discrimination a reality, to strengthen the participation of women and people with special needs, so that the european employment strategy, which is the key to the implementation of the lisbon strategy, will benefit from the social sensitivities that progress programmes will enhance. the programme is therefore called upon to support the implementation of the protection and combating of social exclusion of particularly disadvantaged groups, the improvement of the working environment, supplemented by the provision for a combination of family and professional life, in order to enable women to participate in the workplace. we also hope for measures to combat all forms of discrimination against immigrants and their integration by recognising the undeclared work proposed by the programme. thank you and we hope for the realization of the objectives of the programme.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very important one. first, the newly enlarged european union has as its main objective the difficult objective of economic and social cohesion in an environment of low development performance, regional and social inequalities that is the present one. secondly, the european union is preparing for an enlargement to south-eastern europe and to start accession negotiations with turkey, a large country with serious problems in all areas. these developments are directly linked to our political planning and our budgetary prospects. thirdly, the social problems of european citizens which progress aims to address are at the heart of the reflection on the effectiveness of our social model, the credibility of the european union and its sustainability. for these reasons, we expect a lot from the progress programme, in terms of its structure, its collective and coordinating nature, its adequate funding, its ability to mobilise social and economic actors and, in particular, to enable many actors at national and regional level to participate, because we must not forget that our management so far has led european citizens to say that we support and cooperate with the professionals of european programmes and not with the real actors on the ground. i would like to emphasize in particular the need to include gender in all areas of action, in all evaluations and revisions, interim or annual, of the progress programme as stressed in the opinion of the committee on women's rights. the european union has a long history of implementing equality programmes at community and national level. and there are also many problems of women, which are related to discrimination, unemployment, poverty, exclusion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr weber, for the good report he has produced and for the fact that he has presented a broader picture of the needs and objectives that the directive on television without frontiers should serve. in my view, the two major problems which we - both the european parliament and the commission - have to face in view of the revision of the directive in the autumn are: first and foremost, the over-concentration of the media which undermines pluralism, effectively limits democracy. the rapporteur has rightly noted that. but we also have an experience. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think it is therefore necessary to ask the commission for a common european antitrust policy which protects pluralism, diversity and prevents unfair concentration of ownership. the second concerns the very defence of european television production, which is part of our european identity and culture. here we must do everything possible to strengthen european production by promoting the circulation of national producers at the trans-european level, by supporting common european policies and productions, by making better use of the positive role of public television and by coordinating it. the commission has also been asked to define what constitutes a project, so that ridiculous reality shows do not pass as quality and european production. i hope that parliament will play a substantial role in the formulation of the new directive in both these areas.
mr president, television has for many years been a catalyst for information, education and entertainment for the european citizen. the european union, aware of the shortage of quality european producers, has set as its primary objective with the tv without frontiers directive to reverse this worrying reality by promoting european and independent producers by setting quotas on their transmission. it is very positive that the european commission in its latest report for 2001-02 records a strong increase in the programming of european projects and finds that the transmission of european independent producers ranges at levels above 10%. this positive picture has some negative aspects, however. for example, a careful observation of the quotas shows that the majority of domestic production is being met. this may not be in contradiction with the directive, but it does not lead to the creation of a european audiovisual area which cannot be built as long as the european viewer does not have adequate access to audiovisual products from other european countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report by mr weber, who worked methodically and was congratulated for his good work by the whole committee on culture, also covers other important issues such as the preservation of pluralism and the issue of the concentration of smes, which is of particular importance for many countries. the commission should take the proposals in the report seriously. it is our duty to resist the pressure to reduce the regulatory provisions of the directive whose minimum rules have failed to prevent the deterioration of the quality of programmes. the century of the image culture we are living in calls for us to defend european culture and to channel it as a competitive product to other continents of the planet, since its citizens unfortunately still consume everything produced across the atlantic. the main issue is cultural but above all political. the glamour productions of america are seen as being in stark contrast to the reality of new orleans.
mr president, mr weber's experience has helped his excellent report, and i congratulate him on that. although positive steps have been taken in the implementation of articles 4 and 5 of the 'television without frontiers' directive on the future of european audiovisual policy, there is still concern about the low ratings of european programmes, which make it difficult or impossible to compete with similar productions, especially from the united states. at the same time, i note the decline of independent producers by about 4% over the last four years, which is contrary to the directive and the attempt to expand the free market in the audiovisual sector, and which, on the contrary, restricts the freedom of expression of creators both qualitatively and quantitatively by the monopoly tactics followed by other countries of the european union. unfortunately, breaches of the rules laid down by the european union on the total time for advertising, interrupting a programme to show advertisements, scheduling inappropriate programmes at certain times and indirectly promoting prohibited products such as smoking and drinking during broadcasts are only some aspects of an uncontrolled phenomenon for which member states are responsible. cultural diversity is not understood without television without borders. the single market and the protection of the human dignity of consumers, minors and citizens in general, only with freedom of thought, provision of services and protection of the copyright of creators is it possible for television without frontiers to survive and operate. the european union has an obligation to defend the role of public and private audiovisual media in compliance with the relevant regulations and directives and the charter of fundamental rights.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to take the place of mrs reding, who is in london today as part of the british presidency. i would first like to thank parliament for this broad overview and congratulate it on the broad support expressed in mr weber's report for the general approach reflected in the synthesis papers published at the beginning of july 2005. it is a new and comprehensible approach which suggests a graduated regulation for linear (broadcasting) services and non-linear services, such as video on demand. as the report rightly points out, it is necessary to adapt the existing rules to structural changes and technological developments, while fully respecting the principles underlying the current 'television without frontiers' directive. the fundamental objectives of the directive, including the internal market and public interest objectives which remain valid, include the following: the free movement of audiovisual programmes on and between platforms, irrespective of their transmission mode; free access to events of major importance; the promotion of european works, independent productions and cultural diversity; minimum standards for the protection of viewers against illegal advertising; the integrity of audiovisual works, in particular films; the protection of minors, human dignity and the right of reply. the consultation process was conducted in full transparency with the participation of members of the european parliament. and so will the important audiovisual conference in liverpool where the future rules on the regulation of audiovisual content will be discussed in six different round tables. as regards the present articles 4 and 5, we have noted your concern to ensure that the terms 'independent producers' and 'european works' are applied more uniformly and better by introducing clearer concepts. i have noted that mr weber wanted to give a more positive content to this concept of work. the measures to promote european works and independent productions were also consulted in the context of the synthesis papers which dealt with the same points highlighted in the weber report. the consultations showed that the underlying principles remain valid as articles 4 and 5 have provided a stable and effective framework for the promotion of cultural diversity and the european audiovisual production sector. the idea of organising a european year of audiovisual and media with the aim of developing a european innovation pact deserves consideration and interest and calls for further investigation. however, a one-year commitment cannot be made at this stage of reflection and debate. i take note of the concerns expressed in the weber report about the need to safeguard media pluralism. the liverpool conference will include a round table on this crucial issue. the commission recognises the importance of media pluralism and, within its remit, gives the utmost attention to issues of concentration and ownership. several public discussions were initiated to examine whether this problem should be addressed at community level. this discussion has shown that there is no one-size-fits-all answer to this difficult problem. what can be said is that a package of measures is probably needed which includes effective regulation at national level, active promotion of media pluralism at national and community level by facilitating the circulation of european works, or support for european producers under the television without frontiers directive and the media programme, as well as enforcement of national and european competition rules. these are the few points i wanted to stress on behalf of mrs reding, and i would like to reiterate to mr weber and all the members who have followed this debate the interest which the commission has taken in this dialogue and exchange with parliament.
the agenda includes the voting time. results and other voting details: see minutes
the time for voting is over.
madam president, one of the greatest orators of athens, demosthenes, said: 'he gives money'. i'm sorry you may not know it, and it's not easily translated into your language: it means 'without money, nothing happens'. there's nothing we can do. the 1% of gdp allocated to the budget cannot be used for policy. europe is going bankrupt. we have more poor households than any previous period. we import lemons from chile, garlic from tunisia, hazelnuts from turkey, clothes from china. there's no growth. we cannot lift europe out of poverty. and that is disastrous. europe is going bankrupt. we need to change policy. and we, instead of changing policy, go along with what mr blair says, that we cannot give money to the 4% of the population, the farmers. but 4% feeds the other 96%. we're just gonna give money for the computers? this is a wrong policy. we budget for people, we don't budget for computers, we don't budget for numbers. think of the people. they vote for us, they have the last word.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on rural development and the committee on equality for women, we would like to stress that the commission and the council, in their proposals for the 2006 budget, have been below the current situation. for agricultural policy, and in particular for the guarantee section, the commission cut the budget by some eur 1.9 billion below the budgetary ceiling, based on unrealistic forecasts for agricultural product markets in 2006. at the same time, the council of agriculture ministers also reduced expenditure by eur 150 million in a linear and inexplicable way. this overall reduction, amounting to some eur 2.2 million, creates a climate of uncertainty for producers at a time when they are called upon to apply the new community agricultural policy and the new conditions of competition from international trade. how can the commission and the council deal with the problems of dairy farmers, small grain farmers, wine producers who see quality and branded products being displaced from the market, grape and fruit and vegetable producers, and the problems of young farmers? would you say, "by strengthening research and technology"? but it has already been reduced by the council's proposals and it has already been reduced by the budgetary perspective. in addition, rural development appropriations may be exhausted but are insufficient to meet the real needs of rural development in the run-up to enlargement. the proposed appropriations for equal opportunities are insufficient to meet the real needs arising from the competitive environment. the 2006 budget proposals should meet the expectations and requirements of modern europe, and even more so of its citizens when it comes to the final budget, a budget directly linked to the financial perspective.
member of the commission. i want to express my thanks to the member who tabled this question, because it is a very relevant issue. at the thessaloniki european council in june 2003, the commission was invited: 'to prepare the extension of the pan-european diagonal cumulation of origin to the countries of the region in a manner consistent with all relevant community policies and dependent on their administrative capacity'. the commission is currently analysing different possibilities to allow diagonal cumulation with the countries concerned. in any case, any further possibilities of cumulation for the western balkan countries will be built on the basis of the stabilisation and association agreements developed under the stabilisation and association process. the current saa linking the eu with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, in force since 2004, and specifically protocol 4 thereof, clearly sets out the requirements and procedures for granting preferential treatment to products originating in that country, including the movement certificates and other proofs of origin. the text of the agreement refers to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as the only designation of the country and accordingly that is the only name that can be taken into account as the country of origin on the movement certificates and other documentation required for preferential treatment to be accorded. consequently, member states' customs administrations should not grant preferential treatment to goods which do not comply with the relevant provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner kovács in particular for his reply. that was a complete answer. i would just like to point out that the european commission is obliged by the treaty to defend the acquis communautaire. the european union's decisions on the provisional designation of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia form part of the acquis. i would like to ask him whether the answer he gave and the concern of the european commission which he raised will be included in the text of the opinion which the european commission is preparing on the eligibility of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to become a member of the european union.
member of the commission. the questions have been very politically important for us, including the question i received from mr vakalis, but at this stage it is very difficult precisely to guarantee any results during the negotiation process. that is why i would like to say that i organised a reply in quite a general political manner and i would like to read out this answer officially. as the honourable member implies, the deadlock on the financial perspective has done nothing to reduce the urgency to reach an agreement. there is a real risk that the necessary measures will not be in place to allow union policies to be delivered effectively beyond 2006. we must remain focused on the goal of a better balanced budget with a good compromise between existing spending on our tried-and-tested policies, and our new policy agenda for growth and jobs. the commission will provide full support for the uk presidency, and looks forward to working to promote a timely agreement. the commission also looks forward to the efforts of the presidency of the council to lead the debate and take the initiatives required to reach a compromise. when there are significant differences between member states on the function and the focus of the eu budget, the need for compromise is very clear to everybody. the commission will continue to work actively to find a compromise which will enjoy the necessary support amongst member states, and will allow for the agreement of parliament, the council and the commission to the interinstitutional agreement setting up the new financial perspective.
i would like to point out to the commissioner that i have read her interview of 18 february 2005 in the newspaper le monde. it was a really amazing interview. i would like all my colleagues to hear a part of this fantastic interview and i would like you to answer me at the end if you have changed, or if you would change anything today on what you said. i read because the text must remain in history: the commissioner says that i believe that the six's proposal is not possible and that we will reach a figure of more than 1%. we continue to support the prodi proposal of 1.4% because it does nothing but aggregate the financing of policies decided by the council, such as the rural policy, the accession of bulgaria and romania, the lisbon strategy, the transeuropean networks, the increase in funds for research and development. all these policies, like enlargement, were decided at the summit, not by the commission. if the council does not want to pay, it will have to tell us what it will cut. what would you change today, commissioner?
vice-president of the commission. the commission wishes to underline that there is no current requirement on air carriers to provide to the united states api data on passengers for overflights. as you probably know, the united states authorities are considering a so-called emergency amendment, which would require airlines to check all passengers against a united states no-fly list for all flights overflying the united states. the commission would seek opportunities to discuss any such proposal which could have implications more generally for international air travel. the european union has a rigorous policy on aviation security, but that does not include a no-fly list. the inclusion of persons in a no-fly list, however, does not mean that they are guilty of, or suspected of, involvement in criminal activity or other wrongdoing. rather, the united states authorities, on the basis of wide range of information, have determined that the individuals in question should not be allowed to fly to or over the territory of the united states, either because their presence in the united states is deemed unwelcome or, because by travelling on an aircraft they might pose a security risk. such decisions and the criteria on the basis of which they are made are exclusively the domain of the united states government, which alone is responsible for them. although the occasions on which flights are diverted are relatively few, we recognise the concern and inconvenience they may cause. the commission will, therefore, pursue clarification of the united nations no-fly list in talks with the united states, as i promised earlier in the summer. for example, early and effective communication to airlines of an up-to-date no-fly list is an essential aspect. the commission is in the process of seeking to elucidate further with the american authorities on that criterion, in order to prevent in the future cases of false positives. i will be discussing this and other issues during my next meeting with secretary chertoff in washington in early october.
vice-president of the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think my answer should be extremely brief and i would like to reiterate that it is a fact that these decisions are the sole responsibility of the united states government. europe, the european union, i can say again, and this is a matter of fact, has no authority to claim authority or to impose a response on the criteria for inclusion in this no-fly list. we do not think it necessary to provide such a no-fly list for europe, while we are in contact with the united states to obtain those clarifications which we have not yet obtained. as i said, i shall be going to washington personally to obtain, among other things, a substantive answer to this question.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is an idea that can be explored further. as i said, it would be possible to provide for the communication to air carriers of the persons on the no fly list to be provided well in advance of the departure of the aircraft, precisely to avoid cases such as those which have occurred of errors while the aircraft is in flight with consequent deviations from the route. there is also the possibility of substantial dialogue on the criteria for inclusion in the no fly list, obviously with the limitations of the national sovereignty of the united states of america, which has so far not allowed us to know exactly what these elements are. this concerns exclusively the flight over the territory of the united states of america, not flights to and from the united states of america.
you had a meeting with the us secretary of state in june 2005 on these issues. and in a written reply from the european commission to my question on this, you say that there the minister, mr chertov, asked you for more checks on passengers and goods, for improved use of technology for these checks and for the removal of obstacles to the functioning of the mechanisms for enforcing the checks. i ask you specifically, and please answer in no generalisations: what are the specific american proposals to the commission and which of them does the commission accept? which ones does he say yes to and which ones does he say no to? it's been months since then.
vice-president of the commission. as you probably know, in its annual work programmes, the agency for external borders will, on the basis of the results of its risk analysis, identify a number of operational activities to be carried out each year by member states together with the agency. in addition, member states can also put forward proposals for joint operations and pilot projects which the agency may then decide to co-finance. the agency shall evaluate the results of all operational activities carried out under its aegis. if member states carry out operations at external borders outside the framework of the agency, they shall report on such activities to the agency. as regards the joint return operations, it follows from article 2 of council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 that the agency shall provide member states with all necessary support in organising joint return operations. the agency will at this stage not carry out return operations itself, but only provide technical assistance to member states. in this context, it should also be noted that the agency shall identify best practices on the acquisition of travel documents and the removal of illegally present third country nationals. a credible european migration policy necessitates the use of return operations in order to uphold the integrity and effectiveness of the asylum and immigration systems of the member states. however, such return operations must always be carried out in full respect of the human rights and safety of returnees. the commission expects the agency to play a major role in developing and promoting at european level the highest possible standards in this regard. the hague programme asked for the establishment of common standards for persons to be returned in a humane manner and with full respect for their human rights and dignity. it called for the submission of a commission proposal. on 1 september 2005, the commission adopted a proposal for a directive providing for clear, transparent and fair common rules concerning returns, removal, temporary custody and re-entry which take into full account, i repeat, respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the person or persons concerned. finally, as regards the internal organisation of the agency, the commission can inform you that the management board of the agency decided on 30 june 2005 to launch an evaluation of the need for establishing specialised branches on the basis of the results of this evaluation. the management board will decide if and where the agency shall establish specialised branches.
i thank the commissioner for his reply. as you know, there is a difference of approach between the commission and the european parliament on this particular issue of dealing with migratory flows. the european parliament has a great deal of sensitivity to the question of basic human rights. i ask you directly: will you take account of the opinion of the european parliament? because so far, you've never gone in the opposite direction.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the thoroughness of her work and the contributions of her colleagues to the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity, and especially on the right of reply on the competitiveness of the european audiovisual and information industry proposed in the de sarnez report. the findings are many, but the main conclusion drawn in this report is that the european union is unable to monitor the implementation of its directives effectively and urgently. and from the amendments we have been able to table and vote in favour, we conclude that in order to achieve the objectives in the field of communications, with television without frontiers and new information technologies such as the internet taking precedence, the cooperation of politicians, audiovisual industry and parents is essential, with responsibilities relating to the quality of the product offered, to the training programmes for young people, to the protection of dignity and to the right of reply when the rules of morality and the personal data of the citizen are violated. in conclusion, i would urge, commissioner, the immediate and uniform implementation in the member states of digital terrestrial television broadcasting, which will enable parents to control programmes, particularly those to which millions of european citizens and minors have access thanks to rapid technological progress. finally, the production of information programmes with a campaign against acts of violence against minors and the support of victims through the provision of psychological, moral and material assistance.
mr president, commissioner, the development of new information technologies and the widespread use of the internet have brought enormous benefits in terms of the dissemination of knowledge and information and have greatly facilitated communication between people. but technology often has negative effects when it is used for the wrong purposes and especially when there is no proper legislative framework to regulate its use. so today there are millions of pages of pornographic content on the internet and, as our rapporteur, mrs de sarnez, rightly pointed out a moment ago, young people spend more time on the internet than they do in front of the television. it is therefore the duty of legislators to ensure that this tool of freedom of expression does not become a dangerous tool for minors. this recommendation is intended to do just that. it proposes innovative and specific measures to control illegal and harmful content on the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de sarnez, for his work on this matter. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. finally, as regards the right of reply, it is necessary to have common principles in all member states in order to ensure effectively the protection of the dignity, honour and reputation of individuals. if we continue to have different conditions for exercising the right to reply in the various member states, there is a risk that people facing false accusations in the name of expediency will not be able to make proper use of this right.
mr president, commissioner, it is an indisputable fact that public health is one of the most valuable social goods. after congratulating my colleague mrs grossetête, i would like to draw the house's attention not only to the basic and abstract lines but also to the details concerning public health, access to high-quality services and the creation of reliable control mechanisms. particular attention should be paid to the production, testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products, in particular because of the obvious need for greater transparency, since direct and indirect economic interests are linked to their production and marketing, and because a whole range of medical operations and actions, whether at the research or application level, depend on their use. the report must safeguard the important right to protect child patients from both the unnecessary use of medicines and the use of therapeutic or research protocols of unknown value and effectiveness. medical and paediatric research programmes, the conditions for authorizing medicinal products and the conduct of post-marketing studies must be a means of benefiting both patients and medical research centres in order to ensure maximum medical efficacy. the creation of a robust risk management system, the creation of a list of information to be made available to all healthcare stakeholders, businesses and operators, and the provision of information to patients on the treatment protocol to be followed and its expected therapeutic value, together with the above, constitute a strong system of protection and improvement. there is no balance that can hold children's health on one side and economic issues on the other. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, mr minister, i know from our many discussions your deep sensitivities to the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and personal data. it would have been a good thing if instead of the three you had proposed five main guidelines: not only international cooperation, not only the need for effective police cooperation, not only the need to use modern technology but also laws and institutions to protect individual freedoms and programmes for the political and social response to the phenomenon of terrorism. we are not going to let the fight against terrorism interfere with individual freedoms. if citizens feel, even without real reason, that they are being overly watched, then they censor themselves. and that is a threat to democracy and a victory for the terrorists. all this is relevant when considering proposals for the retention of electronic communications data of european citizens. today you have shown us that the use of this data is in all cases very useful. you have also shown us that in some cases it was necessary. but the presidency has not yet submitted a study that mentions all the cases where the use of this data, although useful, was not necessary. please, if you can do it. the test, i remind you, is not whether the measures are useful or important. the test is the measures are necessary. they are also required to be proportionate. we must reassure citizens that their telecommunications data collected over long periods of time will be absolutely secure. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in this area. not everyone who works for a telecommunications company is an angel. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national and community statistics on the use of the euro, the introduction of a new system of national statistics on the use of the euro, and the introduction of a new system of statistics on the use of the euro. that both private and government service providers will not be able to fish the huge databases for illicit purposes. and that they'll effectively protect them from hackers. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. pull her back. and let us all work together on the forthcoming initiative of the commission and mr frattini. you are right when you refer to the negative effects of the rejection of the constitution by some member states. but the rejection was the result of many citizens feeling that their voices were not being heard in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i'm going to hang up. the paper you handed us, mr. minister, refers to you. and i say it in english: 'in the future, some criminals and terrorists will adapt their use of technology to make the retention of this data a less important tool for investigations. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. do you foresee or will you foresee, when that happens, that this use of data retention will stop, or not?
president-in-office of the council. mr president, we have had a very good debate this morning. i am not in a position to respond to everything that has been said, but i simply wish to make four points for the house to consider. firstly, i very much welcome the style of the debate and the approach. i appreciate the contributions by mr poettering, mr schulz, mr watson and mr cavada, in particular mr cavada's remark that the time has come to work together in the next four months to reach an agreement on how to proceed. i welcome these indications of an approach, which were widely shared in the debate today, and, on behalf of the council of ministers, i can say that we want to work with you to resolve these questions in a positive way. the second point, however, is that for me this debate has illustrated the dangers and the desire of some political forces to spread poison, malice and disinformation about these difficult and problematic matters. i refer in particular to the contributions of mr claeys, mr farage, mr borghezio, mr karim – a particularly ignorant and ill-informed contribution – and mr van orden. it is very important that when we have this debate we look at the true facts and discuss them in a proper way, because unless we solve these problems others will use them for their own purposes. my third point is a very important point of principle. mr voggenhuber said that we must defend our values by working within them. i agree entirely. to avoid any doubt, i absolutely respect the legal framework and the rights that need to be respected. i shall take one example that has been mentioned, the terrible, tragic shooting of mr de menezes by the police the day after the bombings in london. in the united kingdom legal system we have an independent police complaints committee which will investigate every aspect and report publicly and conclusions will then be drawn. the police and security services are properly accountable to society as a whole, even when a very tragic error has been committed. that is what should happen! (applause)there is always a danger of errors and, of course, this parliament is right to say that we have to ensure there is scrutiny and accountability. however, i say – certainly for the british government but also for the council as a whole – that we commit ourselves to such a legal framework and the terrible killing in question is an illustration of being able to do just that. i will just add one other point. we have had suicide bombers in our city, people ready to blow themselves up, to destroy in terrorist attacks. it is legitimate for the police to consider how they can deal with that problem. i wish we did not have the problem, that we did not have suicide bombers at all. i wish i could snap my fingers and they would disappear. i cannot – they are here. in these circumstances, it is right for our police and security services to give proper thought to how we deal with a threat from that quarter, subject to scrutiny and debate and subject to operating in a legal framework. but that is what this parliament should be about: asking what the correct procedures are in these areas. that is why i say yes, we work within a legal framework. but i also say to my friend mr watson that human rights are indivisible, that is true, but we also have to recognise that there are individuals and organisations seeking to destroy these human rights and we have to defend ourselves against them against those people who want to destroy those very human rights for everybody. that is an obligation we have in addressing them. (applause)my final point is in response to the criticisms that i did not sufficiently address the question of social and political action on islam. i accept those criticisms. they were well made. mr lambrinides, mr wiersma, mr barón crespo and mrs roure – with her points about justice – are all correct. we need to have a policy to address these questions and to take them forward. we need to understand islam; we need educational, social, and political action on that. as mrs roure said, we need to focus on a foundation of justice; we need to say that this nihilism is a perversion of islam rather than islam itself. as mr mayor oreja said, we need to understand the role of organisations in these areas. i do not have time to address the issues about iraq that were raised by mr wurtz and mr fava. all i will say is that the 9/11 attacks took place well before the iraq situation and terrorist atrocities have been committed over a period of time that has to be taken into account. i hope and believe that during this presidency we will take the decisive step to get all the institutions of the european union – parliament, the council and the commission – to raise the quality of our work on serious and organised crime and terrorism, and i commit myself to work in that direction. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank you for the quality of the debate we have had, which shows that the council, parliament and the commission are increasingly willing to work together. some of you have said - and president schultz has said so with great authority, as has mr barón crespo - that our discussions on the same subjects often take a long time. in some institutional respects, this is often true. president schultz, you are right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in reflecting on the future of europe and in addressing the security sector as a priority for european action, we must emphasize more strongly that if we are to reduce national jealousies seriously, we must create a more solid and cohesive european institutional framework. this is not the case at present, and unfortunately terrorism and transnational organized crime are changing and developing much faster than our european institutions. this is a problem that falls on us when citizens ask for answers, and here is the answer of the european union policy that many of you have stressed. what now? i shall just take up some of the points i have heard, most notably from mr brok: less new laws, less new legislative initiatives and more implementation of existing rules. this is a principle which i have been able to see in the first seven months - and there are not many - of my work at the commission: many member states are seriously lagging behind in implementing the rules that already exist; there are still institutional jealousies which are being reduced by the joint work of the institutional actors. that is why i have proposed - and you have agreed - in the action plan a mechanism for continuous monitoring of the implementation of the existing rules to assess how and whether we are progressing. it is also clear that i myself and the commission services will also undertake to provide the necessary technical assistance to member states who request it in order to implement the existing rules against terrorism. i will report to you periodically, every six months, on how the rules are being implemented, whether and who has not properly implemented the rules that exist, but to do that i will need your strong political support, not legal support. finally, a final reflection on the political strategy of europe. president poettering and then mr oreja, among others, spoke of the answer, which is primarily political. i strongly agree and say: let us involve more civil society, religious and civil communities who represent in europe this great reality which is our reality and let us work together with them to eradicate the deep roots of terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists. i have spoken to you and i will speak to you again in this parliament about the involvement and commitment we intend to ask in a transparent way of the islamic communities, who at the same time feel that they are communities living in a european heritage. we would also like to ask them to take a responsible stance, and we would like to hear in this open dialogue, sometimes, more and more often, in the prayers of the mosques, a clear word of strong condemnation against any act that is harmful to human life. this is the dialogue, this is the partnership of values on which our political action must be based. as the commission, we will also be contributing to the international strategy for european action on security, we will be publishing a communication to parliament and the council to discuss with you how best to involve international actors in this absolutely universal challenge for all. we will also be asking for a reference - i have heard of some of the speeches on this - and a positive contribution of help from that great world of volunteering and ngos to help us identify financial movements and the transparency of financial flows; i can say that i will meet the representatives of the ngos personally and that until there is a thorough discussion, we do not intend to produce a unilateral executive document from brussels. we will wait and ask for a contribution, because transparency in financial movements is one of the preventive weapons in the fight against terrorism. one final thought: i have heard many people, and i am thinking in particular of mr lambrinidis, mention the need for citizens and civil society not to feel excluded from this great political choral action to defeat terrorism. if the citizens feel alienated from this great common challenge, we, the commission, parliament and the council, will lack the practical contact with the source of democratic legitimacy, that is, with the citizens. this is an element, ladies and gentlemen, which is perhaps at the root of the distrust and the distance which have led many citizens in france and the netherlands to say 'no', because they felt excluded, they felt distant. in the fight against terrorism, we must keep them close.
the debate is closed. the written declaration (article 142)
in writing. the commission's recommendation shows from its very title the real intentions of its authors, namely not to harm the profitability of the entertainment and internet industry. secondary measures are being formulated for governments, industry and parents and teachers, and they do not change the present wretched situation. the proposal that would be of substantial value is an explicit ban on the production and broadcasting of radio and television and electronic material with vile content that offends human dignity. as far as minors are concerned, it is characteristic that while they leave the industry at a loss by proposing additional incentives for the use of, for example, special filters for violent, racist and pornographic images, the burden of responsibility falls solely on parents to attend internet use classes to help their children. the amendments by the committee on culture and education do not differ substantially in any of the above. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against the dangers of exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. for these reasons, the kke group voted against the texts.
mr president, i would also like to thank minister douglas alexander and commissioner verheugen for their speeches. but i would ask them to read the interviews of israeli prime minister ariel sharon in the jerusalem post, haaretz and maariv newspapers on 22 april 2004 which present the real objectives of the unilateral expulsion of israeli settlers from the gaza strip. in these interviews mr sharon talks about dealing with the risk of demographic change in israel, dealing with the security problems of the israeli occupation forces. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. in this respect, i think that the british presidency's statement of 25 august is excessively optimistic, as is mr solana's statement. i am afraid that these statements do not correspond to the harsh reality. i believe that the withdrawal of the settlers, if it is to be a positive step and a window of opportunity, must be included in the framework of the implementation of the road map without new conditions and new preconditions on the israeli side. mr alexander mentioned serious problems in the gaza strip. i would point out the need to open the airport, to open the port, to lift the social and economic blockade of gaza. people are unhappy there. there is a high rate of unemployment and poverty. we have a great responsibility as the european union and i believe that we must also press the united states within the quartet for an international peace conference with sharon and abbas. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the attempt to make tourism more compatible with the anti-people strategy of lisbon is being made through empty speeches about the development of tourism and the protection of the environment. in order to increase profitability, capital is concentrated and centralised through capitalist restructuring, private-public partnerships, the sale of the people's wealth to tourist business groups, and the exploitation by private capital of the cultural and architectural heritage of each place. worse conditions are also being created for workers in the tourism sector, which is already experiencing increased problems due to seasonality and the uncertainty associated with the introduction of even more flexible and flexible forms of work. it could not be without a policy which directly concerns the workers and an attempt to use it to shape a european consciousness with its main feature anti-communism, which is also intended to be a tourist attraction. the anti-people policy of the european union and the governments of the member states deprives workers, the working people's family, of the opportunity to take a holiday. it is imperative that this social need be met and this will be achieved by the struggles of the workers.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good report. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment in the union. the tourism sector, which attracts mainly women and young people, is a major source of employment and is in line with the lisbon strategy. but we are in a very critical period for the development of tourism on a world scale, which directly affects our own employment policies and competition in this sector in which thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises are active and affected. although tourism policy is a matter for the member states, the importance of this sector at european level requires that a budget line be provided for in the community budget. at the same time, it requires better coordination between member states to be ready and able to respond effectively to the new challenges arising from changing tourism trends and socioeconomic changes at european and international level. a basic prerequisite for any formulation of tourism policy is a thorough knowledge of the specific features and problems at local level. this requires the use of scientific tools and methods, investment in research and development and the creation of a european network of regional tourism observatories to coordinate and transfer know-how. the response of european tourism to the challenge of competition should as a priority include competitive tourism businesses that provide quality services and do not harm the environment and do not distort local culture. the response of european tourism should be given in a responsible manner and with emphasis on the economic and cultural values of the union.
mr president, commissioner, today's debate on the future of sustainable tourism in the european union is proving to be particularly important and interesting. it is being held towards the end of the summer tourist season and we all have our own personal experiences but it is also being held for the first time since the recent accession of ten new member states to the european union which have enriched it with exceptional tourist destinations. in addition, mr queiró's report shows for the first time the complexity of the economic activity of tourism and its effects on the whole spectrum of the economy, society, natural and cultural resources, and the interaction of peoples. it is very satisfactory that the european commission - as the commissioner has said - is aiming at the leading role that european tourism can play in the future. but this requires special care and a serious strategy, because we must not forget that the growth of tourism in the european union in the first half of 2005 was only 5%, as opposed to 17% in the wider middle east and around 10% in the united states. i would therefore like to emphasize the added value which the european union can bring to the policies of the member states. in addition to the development of safe transport at national and transeuropean level, other proposals contained in the report are of great importance. i am referring to cooperation and coordination on the entry conditions for third-country nationals, cooperation on the flow of tourist flows at peak times to overcome the imbalance between regions that are literally sinking and others that are seeking to attract tourists, the promotion of tourism programmes such as the odyssey programme, exchange and mobility of trainees, to have certification of professional qualifications and also a concerted promotion of europe as a tourist destination with diversity and of course in line with the budget for tourism in the european union.
president-in-office of the council. i am not sure whether the question of the location of the european parliament is judged more contentious or less contentious than the suggestion that there should be a single language for the european union, but suffice it to say that i will tread cautiously in replying to this question. i can assure you that i was asked a very similar question on the floor of the house of commons by one of my conservative colleagues, who asked whether, in light of our prime minister's speech to this parliament, we were minded to consider a more efficient approach to the location of the european parliament as a first step in negotiating the future financing of the eu. i have already been accused of not answering one question. i can assure you that i did not answer that question in the house of commons either. i believe it is fair to say that there has been a long-standing debate on this matter and the position of member state governments has been very clear for some time. i have to say, however, that i have listened very carefully to the point that the questioner made. she is certainly not the only member of the european parliament who has forcibly put this point to me on this visit.
president-in-office of the council. i have not yet read foreign minister gul's statement in full but, under the revised accession partnership adopted in may 2003, turkey is required to establish conditions for the functioning of non-muslim religious communities which are in line with the practice of european union member states. however, as the european commission indicated in its 2004 regular report, non-muslim religious communities, including the ecumenical patriarchate, continue to encounter obstacles. serious problems, in particular the legal status of non-muslim communities, property registration and training of clergy, remain to be solved. new legislation, needed in order to remedy these difficulties, is still in preparation. in this context, a draft law on foundations is currently pending in the turkish parliament. the turkish authorities have invited and received comments from the commission on this draft and the union expects the commission's comments to be seriously considered. as the honourable member of parliament is well aware, the european council of 16 and 17 december 2004, when reviewing whether turkey sufficiently fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria to open accession negotiations, clearly stated that the union would continue to monitor closely progress of the political reforms in turkey. i can assure the honourable member that the council continues to do so.
mr president, i am very much surprised that the british presidency has refused to comment, months later, on the specific statement by mr abdullah gul refusing to recognise the ecumenical character of the patriarchate and to reopen the theological school of halki. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is this continuing refusal by the turkish leadership a retreat from the copenhagen criteria, yes or no? please, at last, for a clear answer.
it is important, mr president, commissioner, that we are discussing in this parliament the issue of women's health for the first time in the context of the enlarged european union and especially in view of a new enlargement in countries where gender equality has not been embedded in policies and women's rights need protection. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her initiative and for the useful information contained in her report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the report makes us aware of the specific situations faced by women and related to health, such as childbirth, and the specific problems, such as breast cancer, uterine cancer, osteoporosis, menopause. it also gives us information on the particular behaviour of women as patients and users of certain medicines and treatments. the commissioner confirmed these specificities and encouraged us to include them in his new strategy. the rapporteur also gives us information on the lack of information and proper treatment of these situations by society as well as by scientific and nursing staff. we therefore recognise the need, and i support the rapporteur's proposals here, for specific research, detailed statistics and indicators in order to study these conditions properly and to deal with them effectively with all the parameters and at all levels, in prevention, diagnosis and treatment. the important thing is to understand that we must integrate the gender dimension into all our national and community strategies and into all our research programmes and all our information and awareness campaigns because women themselves must be informed and protected. i find negative elements in the report on subjects which do not fall within the scope of the study, such as the objection to shorter hours and wages, and i propose that we do not vote on these paragraphs. i would also like to ask, commissioner, because the subject of paragraph 21 has been raised, what the commission means by its strategy on sexual and reproductive health.
mr president, the word 'health' in most languages is feminine. and the pagan europeans of antiquity imagined her as a beautiful woman whose statues we admire to this day. the svensson report comes at the beginning of the 21st century to show that many times, because of the achievements of technology and despite the progress of science and perhaps because of the shift in values, a large proportion of women in the european union have, or are at risk of having, precarious health or are threatened by a multitude of diseases, disorders and dependencies. but the subject of today's report is gender discrimination in health systems, that is, in the ways and means of dealing with all the dreadful and frightening threats to women's physical and mental health described. i congratulate mrs svensson, who, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, is sounding the alarm, and i congratulate you, commissioner, on the findings you have made in advance and the solutions you have proposed so that we can take care of and take initiative in the health of the 42% of the working population in the union, and of the elderly women who have already contributed their strength in two workplaces: at work and at home. the commission's proposals are also aimed at improving the health of girls and young women in the european union, because their survival and well-being depend on it. although the resolution lacks hierarchy, some of the suggestions reach the limits of exaggeration and undermine the principle of subsidiarity. as a woman mep and mother of girls, i feel that bringing health problems and the causes of diseases closer together with gender sensitivity is a step forward in civilization and a difficult subject, as the european agency for safety and health at work acknowledges on its website, and whose contribution, commissioner, we must also invoke.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs honeyball, on her excellent work. the objectives of the european schools could not be better expressed than in the words of jean monnet: the children of europe, monet said, trained side by side from childhood, are familiar with all the different cultures. they learn to live without prejudice, and so the idea of belonging together is born and matures within them. by looking at their land with love and pride, they will become europeans in mind and through education will be ready to complete and build on the work of their fathers and give flesh and blood to a united and thriving europe. the european school is thus an institution which promotes the ideas on which the european union was built. it is an institution that respects and promotes multilingualism, while students learn from preschool age to live and act in a multicultural context. the 14 schools that exist today provide a common education of a high quality which will prove essential for european integration in the future. the european diploma they award to their students is their university passport and certifies the european profile of future employees. it is therefore important to establish more european schools, possibly also in the new member states, which will bring us one step closer to european integration. finally, to ensure and maintain the quality of education, a solution must be found to the problem of overcrowding in schools, particularly in brussels. the european schools are an institution which must be safeguarded and developed in line with the requirements of the times. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the council that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the substantive work he has done on the report and the resolution on tourism and development, which are full of interesting ideas. as the rapporteur, mr cornillet, has pointed out, the directorate-general for development, which is under my authority, does not have a department specialising in tourism. this does not mean, of course, that there are no projects in this area. the rapporteur also mentions in his explanatory statement that the european development fund has made substantial investments in this sector. the commission is dealing with tourism in developing countries from the point of view of aid to the private sector and the sustainable management of natural resources. tourism promoters in developing countries therefore have at their disposal all the instruments to assist the private sector. the investment facility managed by the european investment bank has thus financed several hotel projects in acp countries, while the proinvest programme provides non-financial support to the sector, such as capacity building and investment promotion. in addition, the european development fund has financed hotel training schools in many countries to support the growth of the tourism sector. similarly, road, port and airport investments financed by the european development fund play a crucial role in the development of tourism, as do water supply, electrification, sanitation, waste treatment and environmental protection programmes. secondly, the ecolabel scheme promoted by the commission enables tourism operators to obtain a label certifying that their tourism business complies with environmental standards, which is important for the eco-tourism market. it is therefore very difficult to isolate purely tourist projects. the report also acknowledges the cross-cutting nature of the sector. i agree with that. the eu's strategy is to support the partners in their development efforts by helping them to exploit all their assets, including tourism. in the case of the small island countries of the caribbean and the pacific, tourism is one of the only resources available. moreover, good environmental management of ecosystems such as forests, coral reefs or rivers would conserve these resources and generate long-term income for the local population. i share the views expressed in points 1 and 2 on sustainable tourism. the european union's cooperation with its partners is aimed at promoting sustainable development based on local resources and respect for the environment. as regards the increase in tourism projects which is being advocated, i would like to make it clear that there is a need to avoid a dispersion of funding and, in order to achieve the maximum impact, the commission, in agreement with the partner states, is concentrating its aid on a relatively small number of sectors. these sectors shall be determined by mutual agreement with the countries concerned. as tourism is essentially a private sector activity, the multiplication of tourism projects is the responsibility of the promoters. the commission has set up the investment facility for acp promoters, with a capital of eur 2.2 billion to meet an increase in funding requests. the commission has made the participatory approach and the search for the support of the beneficiaries one of the cardinal principles of its development policy. the private sector is consulted as recommended in point 15. as for the support given to countries affected by natural disasters, it is already a constant of community aid, as is the obligation to respect and protect the environment and local cultures. we share the concerns expressed in paragraph 30 about the training of specialised staff on the spot in the countries concerned, and we recall that this is precisely what the commission has always favoured. in madagascar, for example, the commission has implemented a training project aimed at both promoters and their employees. the commission naturally agrees with the need to fight vigorously against sex tourism, especially that of children, by providing the justice systems of the partner countries with all the help it needs to eradicate this scourge. i would like to thank the european parliament for the attention paid to its services and i will make every effort to ensure that all tourism-related activities are monitored more effectively. however, the commission does not share the view that a directorate-general should be set up solely to deal with tourism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, no one disputes the importance of tourism as a central component of european development policy. tourism, as the rapporteur rightly points out, is not only a factor of economic efficiency but also a major contributor to democracy and political balance in developing countries. however, an effective european union tourism policy towards the outside requires an integrated policy for the sustainability of european tourism within the european union. i would like to link our discussion today to the one on the guidelines for sustainable european tourism. i believe that the european union will only have an effective tourism policy towards developing countries if it can establish conditions for a harmonious balance between internal and external competence in tourism matters. that is to say: 'in foro interno, in foro externo'. tourism policy has been a central objective of european union action since the maastricht treaty. the european constitution re-includes tourism in the areas of supporting, coordinating or complementary action of the union. the legal basis is there. the challenge is to coordinate european policy action in the field of tourism. the challenge of moving from a declaratory policy to a coherent and effective structural policy co-financed by the union. a policy of sustainable tourism, a source of economic development for traditional and rural destinations, a source of knowledge of history and cultural heritage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political maturity and institutional completion of a european policy on sustainable european tourism will also facilitate the smooth integration of european tourism policy with european development policy.
mr president, i too would like to thank and congratulate mr john bowis on his very comprehensive report. our discussion today is particularly timely in the run-up to the great debate in the un general assembly on the millennium development goals. it is also timely because of the problem created by the outbreak of avian influenza and the risks posed by its transmission to europe. i therefore call on commissioner michel to activate all the necessary mechanisms and to take all the necessary preventive measures to protect public health in europe. every day we see the dramatic increase in diseases in developing countries and particularly on the african continent. this situation is a scourge for humanity and calls for a global mobilization of the international community, the un and the european union, which goes beyond mere declarations and immediately sets out to develop and implement an integrated strategy. the increase in disease is a result of the dramatic economic and social situation experienced by the people of developing countries. the leaders meeting in new york, when they discuss the millennium development goals, may have a lot of nice words and wishes, but one thing is certain: none of the goals that have been set will be achieved, and especially goal number six, to control the spread of aids and to gradually reduce it. international commitments and obligations are not respected. despite the g8 commitment to write off the debts of the poorest developing countries, no progress has been made to date. despite commitments to incorporate into national legislation and world trade organization agreements on intellectual property rights, an agreement that makes it easier for poorer countries to import cheaper medicines, no progress has been made. the european countries are also delaying ratification and i call on the european commission to exert all the necessary pressure in this direction. the european commission should also, in the context of humanitarian aid, take a particular interest in providing scholarships to medical and nursing professions in developing countries. finally, i would like to focus on a particularly serious problem, the problem of the increase in mental and neurological illnesses in conflict and war zones. i am referring in particular to the case of palestine, where the israeli occupation, the exclusion of the occupied, poverty, imprisonment, have dramatically increased the rate of mental illness, especially among young people and women. the european commission should tackle the problem of funding treatment programmes in cooperation with the world health organisation. poverty and the continued spread of disease are the slavery of the modern age. we have a great responsibility. it is a responsibility towards world peace, security and stability. i am very grateful to you and i would really like to thank and congratulate commissioner michel on the very important work he is doing.
i'm the editor. mr president, we are faced with a harsh reality: the poor countries, and particularly the countries of sub-saharan africa, are starving and the rich countries are promising. climate change on the planet, as evidenced in the case of new orleans, and with prolonged drought and rising temperatures in africa, is hitting the least developed countries and poor populations the hardest. the heads of the un member states meeting in new york must finally realize their responsibilities and move from declarations to concrete actions. the dramatic situation of hunger in africa requires a comprehensive aid strategy, not delayed charity. the objective set by the group of eight, namely the fight against poverty and hunger in africa, is linked to immediate and bold decisions. it is undermined, however, by the very attitude of its members. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the debt cancellation of the poorest countries is not delayed. the unbridled liberalization of international trade in agricultural products widened the gap between developed and developing countries. the global food crisis is now structural, threatening stability and requiring international structural interventions. in this respect, humanitarian aid, although it is necessary to increase it, cannot answer the serious problems of africa. the crisis in niger has confirmed the serious shortcomings of the un and the european union in early warning and prevention mechanisms. this deficit leads, as the case of niger has shown, to a large increase in financial resources for ex-post humanitarian intervention. however, any strategy based solely on courage - mr annan called for a tenfold increase in the resources of the un relief fund - international humanitarian aid cannot be effective in the long term unless the international community moves to shape a 'green revolution' in africa. we need to make a thoroughgoing change and reform in the state, in society, in the economy, in agricultural production. the european union has significant comparative advantages in africa and must implement the important decisions taken by the council of ministers on 24 may 2005. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the regime continues its anti-democratic methods and authoritarian practices against any dissent. president assad seems powerless to overthrow a regime of authoritarianism, nepotism and meddling that is entrenched in the political system. the victims of the denunciation of the regime's nepotist behaviour are both imprisoned former mps whose immediate release and the immediate lifting of all political persecutions we call for. but i believe it will be in the interest of the syrian people and their rights for the european union to proceed with the signing and ratification of the association agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of human rights. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, in recent days, turkish human rights ngos have been reporting very disturbing information about criminal prosecutions and convictions of turkish journalists. it is not just the case of the writer orhan pamuk, i am referring to the case of the journalist emin karaca, who was sentenced to five months in prison for violating article 301 (2) of the recently revised penal code. i refer to other cases of journalists who have also been criminally prosecuted under the same article. in view of this situation, i ask the european parliament, and in particular its president, to take immediate action towards the prime minister of turkey, mr erdogan, and the president of the turkish national assembly, mr arinc, to stop the persecution and respect freedom of expression, and also towards the british presidency and the european commission.
mr president, on the occasion of today's celebration of the european day of languages, i express my concern at the lack of mother tongue instruction for children of member states' nationals who move to other member states of the union, with the result that these children forget their native language and, at the same time, their cultural identity. the linguistic assimilation experienced by children and young europeans in their new settlement, especially those whose mother tongue is less widely spoken than the european languages widely used by many millions of citizens, does not contribute to the preservation of linguistic diversity which the european union claims to want to preserve. i would ask the commission, in the context of the new strategy for multilingualism, to monitor the effective application of directive 77/486/eec of 25 july 1977 on the schooling of the children of migrant workers ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i would like to inform the house of a very serious matter. as we speak, the turkish authorities are in the final stages of building a hydroelectric dam. the dam, which is scheduled to be completed on november 15 - less than 50 days from today - will result in the sinking and permanent disappearance of one of the most important archaeological sites in asia minor today. it is the allianes, a roman-era healing center located 11 miles [18 km] from the city of pergamum. the archaeological site of allianos consists of a complete hydrotherapy complex that appears to have complemented the famous asclepium of pergamum. i believe that the european parliament must take a position on the issue of this disappearance and, since the commission's response has not satisfied us, i propose that the president of parliament should write to the president of turkey to ask him to stop now the construction of this dam whose waters will forever destroy a part of europe's cultural heritage.
mr president, at the gdansk shipyards, which celebrated the 25th anniversary of the solidarity strikes in 1980, 6,000 workers were employed. today, with the shipyards being privatised, two thirds of the workforce were laid off in the 1990s. mr. vallesa and solidarity, of course, did not strike because they were the ones who fired them. in the city of gdansk, which you have as a symbol, poverty reigns. unemployment is over 15%. in "free" poland, the working peasants, the lower classes, live in dramatic conditions. the fall in living standards is vertical. fourteen years after the overthrow of socialism, poles are consuming less, even in basic foodstuffs, than in 1980. all social conquests have been shattered. foreign capital is taking over the country. farmers are destroyed and new floodplains are created. so the course of events proves that solidarity was the trojan horse for the capitalist restoration in poland. its leadership has mocked the workers. he made charitable demands, trapped them and led them to this situation. it was supported economically and politically by the united states and other governments of capitalist countries, which today reap huge profits for capital and create poverty for the polish people. the slogans of vallesa, ladies and gentlemen, for supposed freedom and solidarity with the workers, have led them to be impoverished, enslaved and without rights to the capitalists. as for the polish democracy, i'll tell you one thing: 20% voted in the last european elections. that is their assessment of the european union.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr wolfgang kreissl-dörfler on his report. why does the council insist on the existence of safe countries when we ourselves recognize that some of them do not comply with basic principles of law and that this would also result in the return of refugees? why does the council insist on allowing each member state to have its own lists of safe countries and why does it insist on refusing a common list, with the result that each country puts its friends and 'clients' on it even though other member states do not trust them? why does the council insist on ignoring the convention on the rights of the child and insist on discriminating against 17-year-olds? is it because the refugee rate is increasing or is it because we have a flood on the european borders? no, because the number of asylum applications has been declining recently. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. fear calls for atonement, and the easy atonement is the oppressed of the earth. the european union is a continent, not just geographically or economically, but also humanistically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have given our light to the world. the international treaties we are talking about here bear the stamp of european humanism and we cannot, on the basis of fear, insecurity and sometimes racism, attack and overstep our own frontiers of humanism. so congratulations again, wolfgang, and i am sure that this report will have good luck.
mr president, the directive on minimum standards for the granting of asylum under discussion today revises and also legislatively abolishes any protection which existed for refugees under the geneva convention and the dublin ii regulation. the council has already agreed, of course, and in a sense the debate here is purely decorative. the directive is a continuation of the european union's overall policy on refugees. because, as you know, in recent years, the rates of recognition of refugee status in the countries of the european union have fallen steadily. in greece, for example, it is less than 1% of the applications. and last year, there was also a vertical drop in asylum applications. the maintenance of the concept of safe and even super-safe third countries - which means returning to them without examining the application - the denial of the right to asylum, the detention of migrants until the authorities decide, shows the indifference of the european union. the european union's humanity has been the subject of much discussion. it 's a great irony: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for this. we believe that the amendments of the committee on civil liberties, with the exception of the amendments of the gue group, are a cost-free criticism of the directive, since they essentially accept the basic anti-refugee guidelines. the only democratic proposal is to withdraw the directive.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking you for the presentation of the proposal for an agreement and for the clarifications which were absolutely necessary to be given to the european parliament. it is a difficult agreement and i think it was quite complicated, so we all need more clarification, but on the other hand you yourself must take into account our proposals and concerns relating to this agreement. the agreement could indeed be considered as one of the most time-consuming international trade sectoral agreements since issues were pending since 1983. the european union has, as you very rightly said, for the last 20 years consistently granted derogations to the united states with regard to the oenological practices and labelling of american wines imported into the community. this agreement shall, in principle, bring about a normalization of trade between the united states of america and the european union: the united states shall exempt the european union from its new certification requirements and commit to seeking resolution of any disputes through bilateral consultations and not through dispute resolution mechanisms as was the case in the past. but let us not forget that we are at present only in the first phase of the agreement which we could call an emergency solution, and there are still important trade issues which, commissioner, you must take into account in the tough negotiations which are now beginning. firstly, the agreement does not provide for adequate protection of protected names, and the recognition of us oenological practices, which allows the addition of 7% water or the use of wood chips in the barrel, does not pose a health risk but jeopardises the reputation of wine as a high-quality product. secondly, this recognition of lax oenological practices in the usa is a precedent for imports from other countries. the second stage should therefore be a responsible approach to the question of oenological practices and the definition of wine, so as to create a stable reference framework. thirdly, traditional names are threatened and the role of the international bureau of appellations is called into question. fourthly, the process of securing recognition of the 17 names in annex 2 should be speeded up so that all european protected names are given strict protection by the american authorities. fifthly, to promote, in the context of the wto negotiations, the creation of an international register of registered geographical indications and to make this objective one of the european union's most important priorities. commissioner, one great cycle is closing but another is opening up, and perhaps now the commission's efforts in the second phase of the negotiations with the usa and the forthcoming revision of the common organization of the market in wine should be strengthened in order to create the best possible conditions for the production and quality of the product and its marketing. you're in the eye of the storm, and i wish you good fortune. i think that parliament's comments will help to achieve this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, we have simply changed the order of business because mr galeote will be coming later. i would like to begin by saying that we have two very good reports, by mr guellec and mr marques, and i would like to congratulate them. i would like to make a very brief comment on mr marques' report - because i am not from these regions, and my colleagues from these regions know the matter much better than i do - that the union must give priority to the issues of the ultra-peripheral regions, respecting the commitments we have all made under the treaty on european union, and i am sure that the commission, as far as it is concerned, will go in that direction. i would like to dwell more on the guellec report, to say that the commissioner is right, the draft regulations for the structural funds have many ideas which are related to the issue of territorial cohesion, a subject which is discussed in the guellec report. the european parliament, in its negotiations with the council, will do everything in its power to ensure that the regulations governing the structural funds promote this principle of territorial cohesion. it should not be forgotten, however, that this principle was one which was first introduced into a text of the treaty on european union in the context of the adoption of the draft constitution. it was an idea jointly put forward by your predecessor, mr barnier, and the then committee on regional policy of the european parliament. the attempt was indeed successful, but the constitution, as you know, has not yet been ratified. i would like to say that ratification of the constitution, in relation to the principle of territorial cohesion, will give us much more tools than we have at our disposal to go beyond regional policy: to see territorial cohesion in the context of competition policy, in the context of the european union's transport policy, etc. i would therefore like to repeat, commissioner, what was said yesterday in this chamber. the european parliament, the commission and the council must take advantage of this period of reflection on the european constitution to inform the citizens of the european union and to ensure that this constitution, which has positive provisions for the citizens themselves, is adopted as soon as possible so that we can have more effective legislative instruments at our disposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is the great gamble ahead of us, and i think that both parliament and the commission must do their best not to waste valuable time and to give the european union the constitutional treaty it is entitled to and deserves. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i would like to refer to the marques report, which i warmly congratulate on the work it has done. i am referring to the particularly remote island regions which we must both support and not abandon. i would like to say, in a slight exaggeration, that we have a duty to support every citizen of the european union who lives in difficult areas under difficult living conditions. in my country, greece, many people live in island areas which may not be particularly remote, but the living conditions are difficult and often these people remain, for quite long periods of time, especially in winter, completely isolated. the european union is the land of solidarity. all its citizens have the right to education for their children, to job security, to healthy living, to health care, to recreation and to all that city dwellers can enjoy. if we abandon the people of the remote regions and force them to leave their villages, no one else will ever go there to live. then we'll have ecological degradation, desertification and destruction. these people are doing us a favor by staying there. we have to relieve them. we owe it to them. the foundation of europe is the periphery. if we start to abandon these people to their fate, then the european union will be destroyed. they are doing us a favour by staying under these difficult conditions and we must do them a favour in return.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an indisputable fact that without economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the union, we will not be able to respond to the internal and external challenges we face. how successful can our fight for a competitive and social europe with a quality of life for all its inhabitants be if structural disparities between the regions of the union continue to be acute and territorial particularities continue to be a factor of backwardness and exclusion for many european regions? in the enlarged european union, with rapidly increasing regional disparities and intense intra-regional disparities, we need a strong and effective regional policy, which must not only reach the poorest regions of the union but also contribute to the formation of a balanced relationship and integrated development between urban and rural areas in each region, while strengthening interregional cooperation. the budget for the implementation of regional and cohesion policy must respond to the risks that are now visible. the role and importance of territorial cohesion should in no way be undermined. in the new programming period, it is essential to coordinate better sectoral policies aimed at integrated regional development and to adopt, together with gdp, new territorial indicators which will make it possible to measure development and identify and assess obstacles to development at regional level.
the commission's vice-president madam president, first of all i understand very well the emotion that has followed all these accidents that have occurred during the month of august. the commission cannot, of course, comment on the causes of these accidents, that is the job of the experts. i would like to reply to mr pafilis that we cannot make a link between liberalisation, the opening up of air transport to competition, and the insecurity that would be linked to this competition. it can even be said that, at the same time as the internal market for air transport was liberalised, the commission tightened up the safety rules. the community acquis in the field of aviation safety has been considerably developed and the evolution of safety data shows that the number of accidents and fatalities has continued to decrease since the start of the liberalisation process. this process has also provided many european citizens with better-priced transport options. however, safety is a priority in air transport more than ever and the control of community aircraft, which is of course the responsibility of the national authorities, who have the discretion to refuse a licence, is something we must monitor very carefully. the current rules on pre-flight checks require community airlines to comply with very strict safety standards. the operational rules in force are those established by the joint aviation authorities. these rules require the operator to ensure that all personnel assigned to or directly involved in ground and flight operations have received appropriate training, have demonstrated their ability to perform the specific tasks assigned to them and are aware of their responsibilities and the relationship between their tasks and the operation as a whole. i have quoted rules which could be expressed, madam president, in simpler terms, if you will excuse me. i really like that the european texts are simpler, but this is a text from the joint aviation authorities. i would like to say, in reply to mr pafilis, that i myself took the initiative at the beginning of february to ask the council of transport ministers for the possibility of drawing up a european list of airlines which had been the subject of a flight ban or restriction. we have made progress, it must be said, less rapidly than i would have liked, because of the caution of the member states. then came the aviation accidents which you know of and which mr pafilis mentions, and at that time parliament, when it was given this amended proposal for a regulation, adopted, on the proposal of mrs de veyrac, the rapporteur, extremely positive amendments which harmonize the criteria according to which a company is prohibited or restricted in its flight possibilities. i think that this proposal can now be adopted fairly quickly, in november. i would thus be able to draw up this european blacklist which will, of course, enable citizens to know better the quality of the carrier they are using. there is still the problem of third countries. the commission has also worked towards increased controls, with the famous safa directive. this is a directive and it must be transposed in all the member states. it must be transposed by april 2006. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of aircraft is not compromised by the fact that the safety of aircraft is not guaranteed by the safety of the airlines. these are the few points i wanted to make to mr pafilis, who rightly asked me about air safety.
commissioner, if this situation continues until 2020, we will have one accident a week. that is, the sacrifice of human life on the altar of profit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both governments and all those involved, whether from the public or private sector, are very aware of the state of the aircraft and also very aware of the enormous problems facing the crews with the pressure exerted on them by the change in working conditions. you don't do that, you do the opposite. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the safety of the aircraft.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i do not know what directive you are referring to. i simply wanted to reiterate that you cannot claim that the european union has not strengthened safety regulations. we now have a european aviation safety agency which is recognized as having the authority, including by the us faa. there has really been a strengthening of all the safety regulations by my predecessor - and i myself will continue along this path. and you are right: we cannot open up air transport to competition and not worry about having a strong safety regulatory framework. but we are making progress and i want to pay tribute, madam president, to the european parliament which is helping us a great deal in this respect. i am very pleased to see that we are going to have absolutely identical criteria in each of the member states where, as you know, the directorates-general for civil aviation have responsibility for safety. we will therefore have common criteria which will enable us to know, with regard to both european airlines and airlines from third countries, that such a company cannot claim to carry passengers because it does not offer the necessary safety guarantees. i think we certainly still have a lot of work to do in this area, but a great step has already been taken and i tell you quite clearly: i am not one of those who will allow competition to take place outside a precise and effective regulatory framework in the field of safety.
commissioner, the report on the helios crash has been released to the secretariat: the two captains were heart patients. one had 90% of his coronary arteries blocked. so he was almost dead before he died. this is what happens when small companies fly off the handle. we in greece have olympic aviation, a company that has not had an accident in 30 years. and you, of course, are currently leading her to the exodus sequence. i appeal to the greek people: give olympiacos a chance so that we can have the security of flying with this airline. let's keep it competitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the market, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. are you thinking of giving the olympics a try, mr. commissioner? it is, if you like, useful for greece.
the commission's vice-president i shall be proposing in a few minutes to you, mr president, an extension of the powers of the european aviation safety agency, which will allow it to monitor flight procedures and all aspects of the human factor, because, as you say, pilots must be well trained and able to fly aircraft. this proposal will be tabled shortly and, believe me, we are fully committed to keeping a close eye on airlines that do not provide the necessary guarantees. this will be the subject of the blacklist, the updating of which will be greatly facilitated by the work of the european aviation safety agency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem of aviation safety will not be solved by black, yellow, green or red lists. if we don't really put our finger on the type of sunsets to identify what the causes are. and here you really have to ask your colleagues, and you have received a letter from those directly involved and concerned, the engineers responsible for checking aircraft before they take off, that now a directive of the european union - my number is being leaked at the moment - makes it possible to carry out checks by workers ......... (the president interrupts)
member of the commission. indeed there is a question about the project data and it infrastructure for a modern land registry that is co-financed by the european regional development fund. the purpose of this project is to establish a digital database of registered active property rights, which are presently recorded on paper in mortgage offices, together with a spatial reference. this electronic registry of active titles will certainly offer a valuable service to citizens and business. we are confident that this project can be completed quickly and quite cheaply. also, the project will establish coastal and forest zones according to greek legislation, where there is a presumption of state ownership of the land except in urban areas. it will be for the greek state to pursue its claim to ownership, in the manner it considers appropriate. the legal validation of active property rights is not included in the project co-financed by the european union through the erdf; that action will be financed exclusively from national funds. in our view that is sufficient explanation for the apparently low level of community funding for the project to which the honourable member referred. the greek authorities requested an erdf co-financing rate of 50%, a level that the commission has approved. i believe that answers mr papadimoulis' basic question.
i thank you for your answer, commissioner, but i have a specific question: on 5 october 2001, the then commissioner responsible, mr barnier, announced the conditional continuation of co-financing for the entire national land register in greece. today, according to your announcements, based on valid calculations, only 2.5% of the total cost of the project, which amounts to eur 1.65 billion, is being financed. i would ask you, therefore, what is the reason for this enormous reduction in the community contribution? why is the commission refusing to provide further financial support, as mr barnier promised?
member of the commission. the financing provided by the commission is eur 40 million – 50% of this element of the project – which comes under the erdf co-financing system. the reason is that the remaining part – the legal validation of the property rights – cannot be included in the co-funded project because the commission considers this a legal matter and one that is therefore outside the scope of the co-funded project. as you probably know, the legal framework in this context in greece is quite unstable: it changes fairly often. it is therefore the responsibility of the greeks to finalise the land registries, for which we provide technical instruments through our financing of this project. it must be said that the legal validation work would consist largely of the work of the lawyers, so that expenditure – which would take the form of lawyers' fees and similar costs – would, in any case, not be eligible for finance from the erdf. that is the reason for this low level of financing and why the commission cannot provide financial assistance for the remaining part of the project.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the commissioner is asked to answer, to explain why no further financial contribution is provided for the land register project. to shed light on the negative aspects of this whole dossier from 2001 onwards. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
member of the commission. madam president, i should say one more thing to help explain why the level of funding is so low. we should bear in mind that this project will generate revenues; greek citizens will have to pay a fee when requesting the certificates. that was one of the factors that prevented us from offering higher cofinancing. you referred to something that took place in 2001 and i am not sure that i remember it correctly. there was a previous land registry project in greece which was a failure – if i may put it that strongly – and that is why the commission decided to recover the full amount of the contribution. we then started to reach agreement on the second project when we identified the part of the project which we could finance without any doubts or problems. i understand that there are many concerns, which you have expressed here. i can offer to look into it more deeply and, with my colleagues in the dg, to see whether this limited participation is justified on the evidence available. at this stage, that is all i can offer. i will ask to be informed once more about all the details that prompted this funding level of eur 40 million. that is all i can say at the moment.
commissioner, you are considered a responsible and serious politician in our country. we have a problem with land registry. it cost 26 times more than planned. less land, more money. the european union's money is also involved. the question is straightforward. the issue is often discussed in parliament and reported in the greek press: are you going to ask the greek government to prosecute those who have touched this money? are you going to ask for those who stole the money of the greek people and the european union to go to court and apologize?
member of the commission. you ask whether we have received a letter from the greek authorities containing the information to which you allude. i can tell you that the commission has not received such a letter, but we have discussed the forecasts for payment with greece, as we do with all the member states several times a year. in the context of our discussions with greece on the forecast for payments in 2005 we noticed the potential risk of an absorption shortage by the end of the year. both the greek government and the commission are aware of that potential risk. that is why, back in july, the director general of dg regio, mr graham meadows, wrote to the greek government concerning the n+2 payments and cohesion fund commitment targets for the year. after that letter was sent a meeting was held – around a week ago – between the greek authorities and the commission. as i mentioned, i am planning my own visit and will discuss this issue when i meet representatives of the greek government in october. it is my understanding, from the meetings the services have had, that there is a clear commitment not only on our part but also on that of greece to do everything possible to avoid any decommitment this year, although such a risk does exist.
madam president, we are talking about losing one-third of the third bailout package. the commissioner responsible said that a few years ago, and today in the greek parliament. there is a letter from the minister of national economy to the prime minister of the country in which such a great degree of loss is mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the common agricultural policy. why is it unable to raise money, when it is running a 6% deficit and needs every last euro? so why is greece so eager to throw away billions of euros? what is that reason? have you been informed?
member of the commission. we know that the greeks need funds, as indeed do other member states which use our funds, and as soon as i was informed there were problems with absorption capacity we worked very closely with the authorities to help as much as we could on the commission side to solve the problem. nevertheless, one should also take into account the fact that this year still has some months to run, so if there is full involvement – which i believe there is on the greek side – we can try to avoid losing the funds within this year's allocation for greece. it is too premature to talk about concrete figures because my experience of the last one-and-a-half months of last year, when i took over at the end of november, was that the last months of the year usually see a huge mobilisation of funds in most of the member states when they are able to catch up. that means there are still three months left to ensure an adequate absorption of funds in greece. all i can do is make the commitment that we will work hard with the authorities on this issue and on the basis of the figure i was presented with by the dg, my feeling is that the figure is well below the one mentioned in the question by the honourable member. nevertheless, at this stage i am reluctant to mention those figures because i believe that the greek authorities and the greeks who need the money will do their best to spend the money properly in the months to come. as you know, for the structural funds the amount which might be at risk is the amount allocated in 2003 because now the n+2 comes automatically at the end of this year, and within the 2003 allocation we have not only erdf, but also social fund and eaggf funding. it is not for me to impose rapid action on the greek authorities, but insofar as we can impose and mobilise we are doing so. we are holding meetings at all levels and our missions are very often to greece. colleagues are working at a current operational level, but they are also very active in helping overcome any difficulties which have accumulated over years. things like this do not happen overnight, but are usually the outcome of longer-term processes. we are trying to address the problems we have uncovered this year and help the greeks.
member of the commission. i cannot say so with 100% certainty, but my feeling is that it is not so much co-financing problems as the national contribution to the funds which makes it difficult for the greek projects to be finalised properly. there have probably been a series of flaws, but i am not prepared today to give more information on the real reasons for the problems. as i said, these are usually whole processes, but we have certainly not identified any one single factor responsible for the lack of financial means to co-finance the projects.
i am grateful to the commissioner for both her reply and the spirit of her reply. i would like to ask you, however, if you can tell me what the overall absorption rate for the greek community support framework is, on the basis of the payment applications received to date. i would also like to point out that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and that it is not the council's intention to make any proposals to the council. you got them? and thirdly, after your visit to greece, when do you expect the commission to conclude its cooperation with the greek authorities on the revision of the community support framework?
mr president, commissioner, we are in favour of liberalizing international rail passenger transport, since this is a necessary means of stimulating rail transport by promoting competition in order to create a modern and genuine internal market. we have, however, some reservations about mr jarzembowski's report. we are in favour of a more gradual liberalization of international passenger transport. we consider that the 2008 date proposed in the report is premature. we therefore consider the date of 2010 proposed by the commission to be more realistic. as regards the rights of railway undertakings to carry passengers between stations within the same member state when operating an international passenger service, we believe that this is preferable to apply from 2010 onwards. we are also very wary of the liberalization of national transport, and for that reason i believe that the amendments providing for the liberalization of national transport for 2012 should not be voted on. we also consider it very important that member states should be able to restrict access to a route covered by a public service contract where this is necessary to maintain the economic equilibrium of that route. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same restrictions as the other railways. as regards the report by mr savary on the certification of train drivers, we consider it very important that it be adopted as soon as possible, since it is essential for safety in rail transport, especially in view of the complete liberalization of freight transport. finally, on passenger rights, we agree with the report, particularly as regards facilitating access for disabled people to trains and railway stations, but without exceptions: it should apply everywhere, both to internal and european transport.
mr president, we are talking about turkey's entry into europe. yesterday's example: he forbade the pope to go to constantinople to function. tell me, what other country in the world forbids the pope from visiting? even the communist castro received the pope with the honors of a head of state. turkey has banned it. that's racism. this ban is racist. it is not just against the ecumenical patriarch, it is not that the greatest temple of the priesthood, hagia sophia, has been turned into an oriental dance and a bathing suit fashion show. it's an insult. it is an insult to europe that this is happening. it does not recognise cyprus - and some say it is the annan plan. if annan's plan for turkey is so good, let him implement it with the 20 million kurds. if the occupying army leaves, the 1960 constitution will be reinstated, with a greek cypriot president and a turkish cypriot vice-president, and the case is over. the northern part of cyprus automatically enjoys the same goods as the southern part. it is simply that, as long as there is reason and not the intervention of the americans, that leads to this room, unfortunately, and the steps towards europe. (applause from the centre and the right)
the european parliament has already expressed its support for the joint resolution on turkey, although it is far from perfect. it also supports, from the outset of this long process, the prospect of genuine accession for turkey, with real rights and real obligations. this means that the opening of negotiations with turkey does not imply that everything is negotiable. on the one hand, the union's sincere desire to see a european turkey as an equal member of the union is not negotiable. the obligation for turkey to fully implement the protocol is non-negotiable. the obligation to recognise cyprus by turkey is not negotiable either. if these obligations turn into a mere ledger, it will be disastrous. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we owe it to the people of turkey, to the millions of its citizens who sincerely desire a european, democratic, prosperous and peaceful country. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must give them the assurance that turkey's accession will come about through honest european negotiation and not through an oriental bargain.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, after having made it clear that the new democracy delegation supports both turkey's european perspective and the opening of accession negotiations, i would like to point out some of the obligations that turkey has, precisely because of the european perspective and the accession negotiations. firstly, the immediate recognition of the republic of cyprus, which, as you all know, is a member of the european union and on which the european council recently took a correct position. secondly, the full and unconditional fulfilment of the obligations arising from the ankara protocol, to which turkey is a signatory. thirdly, respect for the rights of minorities, and in particular the greeks of istanbul, imbros and tenedos. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. finally, it is clear that an applicant country must improve its bilateral relations with all the member states of the european union as soon as possible.
mr president, we who consistently and resolutely defend turkey's european path welcome the positive event of the opening of accession negotiations which can contribute to the profound democratic transformation of turkish society and to peace, prosperity and development in the wider region. only a frank strategy of clear objectives and clear messages on the part of the european union can be effective against turkey. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it cannot be identified with reasonable deductions in the implementation of the conditions and commitments it has undertaken. turkey must respect european legality and european democratic principles on human rights, minority rights, the role of the ecumenical patriarchate, greek minority issues, the armenian issue, diplomatic recognition of the republic of cyprus, the implementation of the customs union protocol within a clear time frame. all these issues, mr president, are issues connected with respect for european legitimacy and the very credibility of the european union.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the situation in the member states. i have the english text in front of me, so i read the english annex. in the end, after the phrase 'under the protocol', i would like to add the phrase 'and should not be sent to the grand national assembly for ratification'.
in writing. the joint resolution on the inclusion of turkey in the negotiations shows that this process is related to the wider interests, contradictions and rivalries of the imperialist powers in the region. in this respect, the pressure and blackmail on the peoples of the region will intensify to accept solutions to their detriment. the resolution is in line with the general philosophy of the european council's so-called counter-declaration. although it contains some positive points, it does not clearly contain the obvious, i.e. a clear statement that without the immediate recognition of the republic of cyprus, negotiations for turkey's accession to the eu will not begin. the kke has opposed membership for the same reasons as it opposed greek membership. we believe that the very policy and character of the eu does not provide any guarantee, no matter how many resolutions there are, for a just solution to the cyprus problem. that's what's happening now. the alleged eu principles and the infamous acquis communautaire are used in accordance with the interests of the imperialist countries
in writing. the 'third railway package' is an attempt to deal the final blow to rail transport in order to increase capital profits. accelerating the liberalisation of the market in international and national rail services, as well as the full liberalisation of all passenger services, will increase the profits of the monopolies, and will deal a severe blow to workers' rights, increase ticket prices, the cost of transporting goods and lower safety levels, as has been demonstrated where privatisation has been implemented. in order to ensure the consensus of the workers and to facilitate the sale of the people's wealth to the monopolies, they supplement the proposal with provisions on possible compensation for passengers in the event of poor service. the question is how, starting with the 'flights', private companies will exploit the workers, the passengers and the regions concerned, ultimately bringing a key transport lever under their complete control. in the name of competitiveness, there is now a call for more public investment in infrastructure to be exploited by big business. the workers are fighting for the overthrow of the anti-people policy of the eu, for radical changes, for a policy that will be social ownership and rail transport and will contribute to the people's welfare.
i am sorry, mr president, but despite the fact that the oil crisis has been raging for a year, the commission's response has been at least muted and the council's has been nonexistent. we have heard today, once again, good declarations but no corresponding measures. which shows a lack of foresight. i ask: have drastic measures been taken to reduce dependence on oil? have solutions been sought in the energy-intensive transport sector, which consumes 70% of total production? the answer, unfortunately, is no. the conclusion is that the rise in oil prices, combined with natural disasters due - to a large extent - to the reckless consumption of fossil fuels, requires the abandonment of an energy-intensive development model and the rapid development of alternative forms of energy. but to do that we need money and unfortunately both the council and the commission reject the idea of an emergency fuel tax to finance this investment in the future.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i thank all the honourable members for their speeches. i am conscious of time, but let me seek to respond to a number of the points made in the course of what was a useful and timely debate. mr chichester began the debate with a clear plea for the maintenance of national taxation and urged a measured view of the present situation. i have some sympathy for the views that he outlined. mr swoboda echoed points i had made earlier about ensuring transparency in relation to the operation of international oil markets. ms hall asked about the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive. i can assure her that member states and parliament are working hard to identify compromise positions on those issues where there is still divergence between the council and parliament. we hope that all the institutions will engage constructively in a process to secure what is an important directive for all of us. mr turmes raised wider questions of environmental sustainability – i have just mentioned the energy end-use efficiency and energy services directive. he also, however, referred to what he called 'the swiss model agreement on road tolls'. on the assumption that he was referring to the eurovignette, let me set out the presidency's position. as the presidency, we will make real efforts to secure a negotiated agreement with the european parliament at second reading. however, i should stress at this stage that the agreement reached on 5 april at the transport council represents a delicate balance and a delicate compromise, so that there is limited room for further changes in light of the decisions reached at that stage. mr kozlík welcomed the steps that have already been taken in relation to oil shocks and the greater cooperation that has been established with opec. on the issue of investment in refining capacity, it is important to recognise that this is already taking place, but prices are sending a signal that even greater investment is needed throughout the oil sector, including in refining capacity; greater transparency and improved investment climates are needed to help bring forth the necessary investment that we have been arguing for. mr goebbels argued powerfully for hydrogen transformation and urged greater transparency – a point i have already addressed. in relation to the more general question of speculation by traders, it is difficult to know exactly the balance, the exact role that speculation has played in prices. however, i would refer to the analysis produced by the imf in its recent world economic outlook, which implies that speculative activity follows movement in oil prices, raising doubts about whether speculation has really been the key driver of the current high prices. mr prodi argued that it is unacceptable for us to do nothing. i hope that my remarks and the commissioner's remarks at the outset of this debate have been sufficient to convince him that steps are being taken and will be taken in the future. mrs hassi raised questions relating to the sustainability of supply. the international energy agency noted in its 2004 world energy outlook that most estimates show that proven oil reserves are sufficient to meet projected world demand over the next three decades and that global oil production will not peak before 2030, provided the necessary investments – which is an important caveat – are made. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, the key challenge is creating the right climate for that investment now to be made. mr papadimoulis raised a number of points. i have to say that i respectfully disagree with his views as to whether it is necessary or appropriate for the council to seek to impose a europe-wide tax in relation to the circumstances in which we find ourselves. mr aylward raised the issue of the common agricultural policy. the british presidency has never been averse to discussing that policy, but i would respectfully suggest that there are perhaps other forums in which it would be more appropriate to explore the wider issues raised by his speech. similarly, mr romagnoli raised a number of fascinating issues, including the foreign policy of the united states. however, regrettably, given that i have five minutes to wind up this debate, now is probably not the time to further explore those particular issues. mr konrad raised the issue of refining capacity. i would refer him both to my introductory remarks and the remarks i have just made. mr paasilinna raised the important issue of the relationship with russia. again, i would respectfully refer him to the fact that, in my introductory remarks, i stressed that there is an energy dialogue – perhaps that will be something to which the commissioner will return – and that there is a continuing dialogue between russia and the european union during our presidency, not just on energy matters, but on a whole range of issues. mrs fraga estévez raised important broader issues relating to fisheries policy and here i would make the same point i made in connection with the common agricultural policy. while i am alive to the burden being imposed on fishing communities by higher oil prices at the moment, there are many other forums in which a fuller and franker exchange can be held on the future of the common fisheries policy. mrs rothe raised the issue of the directive on energy and efficiency and again i hope that i have dealt with that in the course of my remarks. mr rübig raised a number of points in connection with the new opportunities which he mentioned. i would certainly concede, and indeed trumpet, the fact that, in the automobile industry, for example, the markets themselves are providing solutions, such as the growth of hybrid cars, which are gaining an increasing market share in a number of european countries. mrs myller made a powerful case for renewable technologies and one for which i have great sympathy. mr hudacký raised the issue of nuclear energy. i would candidly and respectfully suggest that how a country meets its energy needs and the role of nuclear power within that arrangement is ultimately a decision for each member state. nuclear power is certainly one option that countries can consider, but in considering it specifically as an alternative to oil we should certainly keep in mind the concentration of oil demand in the transport sector of which we have heard so much in our debates today. mrs de vits raised the broader question of fuel duty levels. a number of honourable members touched on the issue of whether a solution involving fuel duty levels could help relieve the burden of higher oil prices being experienced by member states at present. i would again return to the recent informal ecofin ministers meeting at which it was agreed that distortionary fiscal and other policy interventions that prevent the necessary adjustments should be avoided by member states. in particular, ministers confirmed that, where short-term targeted measures are taken to alleviate the impact of higher oil prices on the poorer sections of the population, they should avoid distortionary effects. mr sánchez presedo and mr liese argued the case for renewable energies and i have already said that i have some sympathy with those points. mr olajos said that the problem we have been discussing during the last hour-and-a-half is a global one. i would respectfully suggest that is certainly the case, but so too is the remedy that needs to be found. mr belet raised a number of questions for the commission, so i shall leave those for the commissioner to answer. finally mr strejček offered what he suggested might be heretical remarks to conclude our debate today. i will leave it for others to judge whether they merit that description. i would simply suggest that, if he is earnest in his requirement or in his urging for a proper and frank international discussion of some of the issues that we have touched on today, then i would draw his attention to the priority that the british presidency, the british government, placed on the issue of climate change during our chairmanship of the g8 this year. i believe it was a brave and principled decision to say that, together with international development in africa in particular, climate change would be the particular focus for the meeting in gleneagles between 6 and 8 july. as has been clear throughout the whole debate, this is an important issue not just for europe but for the global economy and one that requires international and cooperative action. sustainable economic growth depends on access to reliable and affordable supplies of energy. as i hope i made clear in my introductory statement, the keys to improving the functioning of the oil markets are better conditions for investment, greater market transparency and, in particular, better data, improved energy efficiency and the development of alternative technologies. consumer and producer nations and international organisations are already working well in these areas, with the european union in particular playing a constructive and valuable role. together our efforts can help the market adjust to the rise we have experienced in demand and help it cope more effectively with future shocks, affecting both demand and supply.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the european parliament for its strong interest in and activity on sustainable energy issues, where we should address all the questions – security of supply, competitiveness and environmental challenges – at the same time. i expect that in future we will have more debates on this subject. i should also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy and its chairman, mr chichester, for the possibility to discuss in detail today some of the issues raised in plenary with the committee members. that is why i shall not deal with each suggestion. i will concentrate my remarks on some particular points. with regard to legislative proposals, i assume that we have a good chance of finding an efficient compromise for energy end-use efficiency and an energy services directive. in the current situation the need for such a directive is even stronger. in november the commission will approve a biomass action plan. the next step could be a legislative proposal for using biomass in heating and cooling. these are short-term measures that could be adopted. at the same time i can agree with the statement that there can be no miracle solution. it really means changing mindsets and asks for a systematic approach, not only from the commission but also from the council. i expect that during the council meetings the energy situation will be discussed in more detail. the council has already discussed fisheries. other councils also look at issues that relate to the new situation of supply and energy. in all the cases the answer from europe depends very much on investment in research and development. that is the right way to proceed. the financial limits of the seventh framework programme will, to a large extent, determine how fast our response will be. i hope that by the time of the adoption of the seventh framework programme there will be the financial means for critical needs in some particular areas to address the issues we have debated today. i salute the motion for a resolution that you will adopt tomorrow. it is a very strong, ambitious and realistic resolution. the commission will continue the activities on the five areas, but not only on these. a systematic approach, patience and consistency will be needed to achieve the results that european citizens expect of us.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure on the oil the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 september 2005 at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the reform of the united nations and the millennium development goals.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, thank you for the opportunity to respond to this debate. i thank members of parliament for their insightful questions and challenging comments. i will endeavour to address as many of your points as possible in my closing remarks. at the 2005 millennium review summit our heads of state and government and those of another 166 countries took up the challenge set by kofi annan of reforming the united nations to make it more efficient, more effective and indeed more relevant to today's challenges. the summit outcome document, to characterise the discussion we have had this afternoon, should be seen not as a glass half empty, but instead understood for what i believe it to be: a clear mandate for further change. i believe that we all share the view that a stronger, more effective and appropriately resourced united nations is the only way to ensure global stability and prosperity in this interdependent world. as the european union set out in its statement to the general assembly on 17 september: 'without a shared effort to accelerate progress towards the millennium development goals, rich and poor countries alike face a future of increased instability. failure in un-led efforts to tackle the threat of terrorism and proliferation would endanger the prosperity of the developing world as much as the developed. the united nations should not be a forum for countries to push individual agendas, but one in which the international community can agree common action for the benefit of all of the world's citizens.' that seems to me the appropriate context in which to address a number of the important points raised by honourable members today. mr millán mon, mr lambsdorff and mr schmidt raised the issue of security council enlargement. in relation to this issue, while european union partners agree that the security council should be reformed, it is the case that there is no european union consensus on the model. on the related issue of whether the european union should have a seat on the security council, i would respectfully remind members of this parliament that the united nations charter is very clear on this point: it allows only individual member states to hold seats on the council, not regional organisations. there is, therefore, no question of a single eu seat on the security council. mrs kinnock paid fulsome tribute to the work that had been achieved and painted, i believe, an accurate picture of the progress that has been made, albeit against a context of much further work still to be undertaken. her contribution is the rightful opportunity for me to pay tribute not just to her tireless efforts on this agenda over so many years – both before entering this parliament and then thereafter – but also to the experience and expertise of so many other members of this parliament, which i believe has enriched the european union's discussion of these issues and indeed europe's voice in international fora. it will not surprise her to hear that i am indeed supportive of the references to the need for innovative funding mechanisms in relation to the pursuit of the millennium development goals. in relation to her other specific question, whether member states are already starting to roll back on their aid volume commitments, i would categorically say no. the 25 member states signed up to collectively provide at least 0.56% of gni by 2010 and, in the case of the eu 15, to all spend at least 0.7% of their gni on aid by 2015. as i told the party conference i addressed only a couple of days ago, to imagine that 15 countries within europe would make such a commitment even only a few years ago would have been a dream for many of us who have long pursued that objective. the european union reaffirmed that commitment in its statement at the millennium review summit. the commission and the council will monitor progress on an annual basis. it is vital that guarantee is in place. i would also point out that the european union is on course to exceed the targets for 2006, which is 0.39% of the eu average, set in 2002. there is no reason at this stage why we should not do so again. the next point raised was by mr portas. he expressed views towards the united states with which i candidly disagree. however, on the specific issue of non-proliferation, let me make clear the following points. it is important to reflect the fact that we all share the disappointment of many member states within the united nations, and indeed of many members here in this parliament, including mr leinen, about the lack of an international commitment to non-proliferation displayed in the ultimate inability of states to agree any language on these subjects. i can assure you all that although i speak for the presidency today, the united kingdom has worked tirelessly and literally to the last minute both nationally and in other fora representing the european union as presidency, to seek the best possible outcome on non-proliferation and disarmament at that millennium review summit. i can also assure this house that we will continue to seek sensible and pragmatic solutions to overcome this deficit that will enhance the nuclear non-proliferation regime. turning to the questions posed by mr guardans cambó, i would respectfully say that smaller european union countries did play a vital role in formulating the shared views of the european union in the run-up to the millennium review summit. to suggest otherwise would be a disservice to the contribution made by a number of countries other than the larger member states of the european union. mrs vaidere then went on to question whether there was a role for a new international organisation to replace the united nations. again, i would say respectfully that i have to disagree with that proposal. rather, the challenge on the basis of what i and some members of this parliament have made clear today is that we need to give tangible expression to the words agreed back in the united nations millennium review summit only a few days ago, and ensure that the further words that are now on paper can be translated in the weeks and months ahead into further action. mrs belohorská addressed questions to the commission about the beijing follow-up summit. i can inform her that the european union did not send anyone to the unofficial beijing conference on 29 august and 1 september. the tenth anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action was commemorated at the united nations commission on the status of women in march 2005. on that occasion the european union was represented by the luxembourg minister for gender equality. mr deva made a powerful case for greater efficiency and effectiveness in the operation of the united nations. i believe there has been a broad consensus throughout this parliament today on the need for that further action to be taken now. mr pistelli asked – given his disappointment about the somewhat patchy nature of the progress, as he characterised it – in what areas the european union could push further ahead for more progress to be made given the constraints of the summit's final document. i can give him the following assurances. we are encouraging interlocutors, including kofi annan, to move forward urgently on the reforms that are important to us, but were not included or were unsatisfactorily worded in that final summit outcome document. specifically, on the issue of management reform – about which there has been much discussion in this debate today – kofi annan has been mandated by the summit outcome to propose further reforms for the un organisation and secretariat in the first quarter of 2006. we have already urged the secretary-general to make bold proposals, not least in the wake of the oil-for-food scandal, as it is important that such steps are taken. the european union supports the summit outcome document's strong condemnation of terrorism – a matter that was again addressed by a number of honourable members – and its call for an effective un counter-terrorism strategy. however, we believe the text should have gone further. for nearly a decade the united nations has been discussing a global convention on terrorism that seeks itself to define terrorism. we want to see that definition agreed in terms that are unequivocal. it would leave no doubt what an act of terrorism is and that such acts are utterly unacceptable. finally, let me make this other specific point. we agree entirely with the un secretary-general that the lack of non-proliferation and disarmament language in the summit outcome document was a significant disappointment. the european union worked literally until the last moment to try to broker agreement on those key issues. despite this setback, i reaffirm that the european union will continue to seek out opportunities to strengthen the non-proliferation regime in all relevant fora. mr romeva i rueda expressed his disappointment on the security council. i have spoken about that already. we share, however, the disappointment that he expressed on the failure to pursue a treaty on the international arms trade. again, i am conscious that i speak to this parliament today representing the presidency rather than any one individual member state. however, i can assure him of our continuing commitment to this issue, not least because my own party was recently re-elected in the united kingdom on an explicit manifesto commitment to try and take forward progress on an arms trade treaty. mrs sinnott said that even the tidiest house sometimes needed to be spring cleaned. i certainly agree that reform has a real contribution to make to the pursuit of the millennium development goals and that is why we are so determined that the words of september are translated into action in the weeks and months ahead. mr dillen quoted general charles de gaulle. i was tempted to reply in kind, but i shall resist that and leave that for another day. instead he went on to raise the question again of united nations security council enlargement and i have spoken at some length about the position of the presidency in relation to that question. mr barón crespo raised an issue which frankly i expected we might have heard more of in the course of the debate today, which is the centrality of the world trade organization talks, just ten working weeks away, in pursuit of the millennium development goals. it is hard to overstate the significance of the challenge that collectively europe, the united states and the other representatives of the world trade organization face when they arrive, and in the weeks before arriving in hong kong. there is simply no doubt that 2005 will already be remembered as a year of real progress in relation to debt reduction and increases in aid flows, for all the reasons that i have described. the opportunity for europe now is once again to grasp the leadership potential that is within its grasp and move actively and aggressively to try and make sure that the very development dimension to the original doha declaration is given expression in hong kong. i was heartened in that regard by the remarks of pascal lamy last week, in his first press conference as secretary general of the wto, for i believe that only by being clear as to the development dimension of the doha round in hong kong, will we see the kind of progress that i believe many members of this parliament would wish to see made in early december. mr coûteaux raised the issue of a seat at the united nations, which i have already addressed, and mr martínez martínez spoke of the united states. as i hope i have already made clear in my contribution in winding up this debate, it is with some relief that i speak on behalf of the presidency of the european union, rather than any other administration, so i will leave it for others to answer for the actions of those outside the european union. mrs segelström raised the issue of terrorism and the need for more cooperation, something i wholeheartedly agree with, and heard very strongly articulated in this parliament when charles clarke, the home secretary of the united kingdom, made a powerful case that it is not by building thicker or higher walls that we will effectively counteract terrorism, but rather by deeper and more fulfilling cooperation between the member states of the european union. she also made an important point in terms of gender representation in the high levels of office represented at the united nations millennium review summit. i certainly acknowledge the significance of that point and therefore respectfully suggest that perhaps the commissioner is better qualified than i to answer it. the final contribution came from mr dos santos, in which he explained his own presence at an important international meeting that preceded the millennium review summit. again, i would simply take this opportunity to reiterate the sincere gratitude, both of the commission, i believe, and certainly of the presidency-in-office, for the tireless efforts of many members of this parliament in pursuing what was achieved in the united nations millennium review summit. i fully accept that there is some disappointment that the summit document ultimately did not go as far as many of us would have wished it to, but i am absolutely convinced that but for the effective action of members of the european union, we would not have achieved the progress that we did in new york. for that, i believe, we can feel a real and genuine sense of shared pride.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall be brief and just say at the beginning that we were delighted to see a parliamentary delegation in new york. i thank mrs kinnock, mr deva and mr lambsdorff for having been there. i must say that this was very positive because you have seen for yourselves the positive and the rather negative side of this millennium summit. many of you have mentioned seeing the glass as half-full or half-empty. the picture was a mixed one, but i think it was very important that this millennium summit ended with a declaration from where we can go on, and this is the most important thing. knowing the un as i do – i was chief of protocol for boutros boutros-ghali in 1994 and 1995 – i know that it can only be as good as its member states, and as good as the member states that are ready to go for a compromise. there are 191 member states, so it is not easy for a european union with 25 member states and some associated member states with the same positions to bring the issue forward. the european union has done a very good job, and this has also been mentioned by secretary-general kofi annan and many others. it is true that in the human rights council, as i mentioned at the very beginning, on the definition of terrorism for instance, we have not achieved everything. let me just go into this question a little. i would say the clear and unqualified condemnation by all governments of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations committed by whomsoever and wherever is a very important element, and it is a strong push, given that this agreement has been negotiated for nearly ten years. there is a good chance that at this general assembly before the end of the year there might even be a conclusion of this agreement. if this were so this would be another positive outcome. let me also say with regard to women's issues that i was present at the evening dinner of the women's network. i was a foreign minister, but now i am a commissioner for external relations. it is very important to think of the other part of the population that is not yet always represented in an appropriate manner, and therefore we think women can make a special contribution to peace and to peace-building, on which we have placed particular emphasis. i would also like to say that the issues that we have mentioned today – and the issues of dialogue and alliance between civilisations and cultures – are a very crucial item. it has been around for a long time, but now it has been mentioned as a new concept and we will certainly work and cooperate with this concept because this might bring the peoples at large again to a common understanding that there has to be tolerance on religious civilisations, but that at the same time we share common values. on the whole i can again say that the eu is indeed the natural partner of the united nations and both organisations have been born out of the same experience, the experience of war, and are founded on the same conviction that acting together is much better than acting alone, even if we sometimes have to compromise in order to go on. but there is a very strong commitment from our side to go on, with an excellent president of the general assembly.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my dear count lambsdorff! you know as well as i do that the constitution has not yet been passed and ratified. there is now a council secretariat office in new york. the commission itself is an observer at the united nations, and we work very, very closely together. however, there are no plans at present to merge the two.
i have received six motions for resolutions. see minutes in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 september 2005 at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 6.10 p.m. pending question time and resumed at 6.35 p.m. )
president-in-office of the council. the council considers that separate collection systems have been and will continue to be widely implemented to achieve the objectives of community directives on waste. separate collection leads to higher recycling rates and makes final disposal safer. a number of community directives on specific waste streams provide for separate collections of wastes, especially for end-of-life products that would otherwise enter the municipal solid waste stream. much has been achieved in member states through community legislation to meet this environmental challenge. important hazardous waste, such as waste oils and batteries, has been tackled. recycling and recovery targets have been set for some key complex waste flows, such as packaging, end-of-life vehicles and waste from electrical and electronic equipment. some of these measures have still to be implemented in some member states. changing behaviour, whether that of producers, consumers or public authorities, takes time. this is particularly true with regard to achieving a specific environmental outcome requiring significant investment in infrastructure. therefore, future initiatives on waste will need to have realistic timescales to allow the stakeholders concerned sufficient time to plan their investment. the experience of member states shows the importance of heightening public awareness of waste-related issues. i am confident that the commission will take full account of this when it brings forward its thematic strategy on waste.
i am grateful for your reply, mr minister, but my trip from brussels to greece has shown me the opposite of what you have given me, and i would ask the council whether it has assessed the indirect and direct damage so far, and the damage that will be caused in all the member states by non-compliance with the directives.
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest of respect to the questioner i do not believe, especially at this time of some sensitivity and anticipation, that it is right to anticipate ambassador eide's report in relation to kosovo. we only have to wait a little longer for that report, and it in the light of it will be better able to continue the discussion on the final status of kosovo.
president-in-office of the council. i would respectfully suggest to the questioner that an awareness is needed of what the legitimate responsibilities of the european union presidency are and what the responsibilities of the serbian government are. in relation to the specific matter of concern, the recent attack on józsef kasza, the chairman of the alliance of vojvodina hungarians, and the general position of the hungarian minority, i believe a quick and decisive approach by the serbian government did much to calm the fears of the ethnic hungarian community that the attack on kasza might be the beginning of a series of further attacks. we are thankful that no one was hurt, according to the reports we have received, but i am aware of the concerns that the honourable member has expressed.
president-in-office of the council. there seems to be a presumption inherent in the question which i am not in a position to echo in my response. there are still further reports to be received in terms of the position of croatia, not least in terms of the croatia task force. that is where matters rest at the moment – no further than that.
president-in-office of the council. we are aware of the issues raised by the honourable member. while freedom of religious belief is guaranteed in the constitution of the republic of turkey, and the european commission's 2004 regular report on turkey's progress towards accession noted that freedom to worship is largely unhampered, important issues in this area remain outstanding. under the revised accession partnership adopted in may 2003, turkey is required inter alia to establish conditions for the functioning of non-muslim religious communities which are in line with the practice of european union member states. however, the council notes that some muslim and non-muslim religious minorities and communities continue to experience difficulties connected with legal personality, property rights, training, residence rights and work permits for turkish and non-turkish clergy, schools and internal management. the european union is particularly worried by the continuous confiscation by the state of property belonging to non-muslim religious foundations. the european union has urged turkey to adopt promptly a law on foundations that fully complies with european standards and expects the commission's comments on the draft law that were sent by commissioner rehn to the turkish foreign minister gül in june to be seriously considered. the european union has also urged turkey to reopen the halki greek orthodox seminary. as the honourable member is well aware, on 16 and 17 december 2004 the european council, when deciding that turkey sufficiently fulfilled the copenhagen political criteria to open accession negotiations, clearly stated that the union would continue to monitor closely the progress of political reforms in turkey. the council can therefore assure the honourable member that it continues to follow developments in this area very closely indeed.
the european parliament, in its resolution today, mr president, considers that the legal arrangements in question are inadequate. does the council share this view? have you made any comments on this bill? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and speaking of religious freedom, does the british presidency have any comment on the unacceptable and derogatory treatment of the pope by the turkish government, following his invitation by the ecumenical orthodox patriarch to visit constantinople?
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to pay a warm tribute to mr menéndez del valle for his excellent report on the eu-india strategic partnership which will serve as a very useful stimulus to the policy of the european union in this field. there is much food for thought in this report for us to digest. the rapid emergence of india and its impact on the world scene is a phenomenon of tremendous importance. as the new india defines itself economically and politically, the rest of the world, including europe, must adjust its own vision of this country. europe has clearly indicated that we take india very seriously. the last eu-india summit held two weeks ago endorsed an ambitious joint action plan which provides the framework for a qualitative transformation in the way we engage with india. this action plan paves the way for closer cooperation on shared strategic goals for the development of trade and investment in enhanced cultural cooperation, participation in galileo and even foresees india's participation in iter. this action plan provides a roadmap for the concrete implementation of our strategic partnership. we noted the emphasis in the report on the fact that the eu and india, as the largest democracies in the world, share a commitment to values which contribute to global peace and stability. we share fundamental values, be it our commitment to democracy and human rights or a joint attachment to institutions of global governance. the new india sometimes seems like one world in a single country. it combines first-class capabilities in information technology, pharmaceuticals and biotech with third world levels of poverty. indians buy 2 million mobile phones a month, but 300 million indians still live on less than a dollar a day. the commission shares the view eloquently expressed in the report by mr menéndez del valle that open trade and increased inward investment are key factors in economic development, but that if such development is to be harmonious, sustainable and equitable it must take into account fundamental social needs. finally, the commission is determined to support india's course of economic reform and modernisation. our regulatory dialogue, student exchanges and scientific cooperation will all serve to underpin ongoing reform. our relationship with india cannot be built only through bilateral cooperation. we must look forward to working closely with india to make the hong kong wto ministerial meeting a success. the eu and india must show leadership in bringing the doha development agenda to a successful conclusion and indeed india, as our partner, is in a unique position to make a case for open trade in goods and services as a powerful tool of development.
the committee on international trade has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, the strategic relationship between the european union and india, and in particular the recent joint action programme, marks the transition of cooperation to a higher and more stable stage. i am glad that the new cooperation framework does not merely consolidate objectives and means, but reflects an overall approach based on equivalence and reciprocity. the potential for cooperation and the expected benefits for both sides are sufficient in themselves to justify the new venture. however, the dissemination of the product of bilateral cooperation in the south asian association for regional cooperation (saarc) region, where india plays a central role, and in the global trading system also plays an important role. as the author of the opinion and focusing on the economic pillar, and in particular on trade, i would like to note that the challenge is to further strengthen trade and investment flows. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products, which was adopted by the council on 22 december, is designed to improve the conditions for the free movement of goods between the european economic community and the republic of south africa. the main challenge facing constructive cooperation - as you said, commissioner - is undoubtedly the current wto round, the wto round. finally, i hope that the special weight india has in the group of twenty (g20) will be a fruitful and creative contribution to bridging the gap between developed and developing countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
member of the commission. i would like first to express my gratitude to mr turmes, the rapporteur on the commission communication on the share of renewable energy in the eu, as well as to all of his colleagues who contributed to this report. this issue has increasing importance not only with the current high oil prices but also for the medium- and long-term policies in the european union. we have already had the chance to speak about this today. i would like to emphasise that even if in the renewable sector we have made quite substantial progress, still a great deal should be done, even with the target that is for overall consumption from renewable sources such as green electricity and biomass, we are still far from fulfilling the targets we have for 2010. the commission is doing all it can to encourage and pursue the member states to stick to those targets. it is clear that we need to and can do better. i really enjoyed reading the report. it presents a cohesive and comprehensive overview of the possibilities that exist in the short and medium term as regards renewable energy. i understand that there have been amendments to alter certain parts of the report. as this is an own-initiative report from parliament, i will not comment on all elements in the report or the amendments, but take some of the key points of the report. first of all i was impressed with the broad overview of the possibilities that renewable energy allows us. it goes to show that we can make changes in our energy mix in the future. furthermore, i was very pleased to see the complex and systemic way that parliament is approaching energy. you rightly say that liberalisation is linked with fair conditions for renewable electricity. you also team energy efficiency with renewable energy. you have a vision for the use of research, market uptake and support schemes. furthermore, you argue convincingly that renewable energy is part of the global solution to our global problems on energy. and finally, but also very importantly, you also link competitiveness, security of supply and environmental protection. i want in particular to welcome the points devoted to biomass. this sector is very important in the draft. i can inform you that an action plan will be adopted by the commission at the end of november. the energy potential of biomass in the union is significant and needs to be developed. i share the view that biomass energy is intimately linked to other european policies. in the recent commission proposal for a council decision on rural development, the commission proposed the integration of biomass and biofuels in rural development as an important new market in a sustainable agriculture. it is obvious that direct support measures will remain essential in the future to ensure sufficient penetration of renewable energy in the market and to meet our agreed targets. as you know, the commission aims to adopt a communication on support schemes on renewable energy sources at the end of november. this communication will be a good opportunity to evaluate the many different support schemes which actually exist in europe. it will also address the barriers which are hampering the development of renewable energies. these include complex licensing procedures and poor integration of renewable energy in local planning. we have to do a thorough analysis of the various national systems. on the basis of their impact we will have to decide on a larger-term perspective. on heating and cooling, i welcome the own-initiative report from mrs rothe which will also contribute to bringing the appropriate initiatives forward. i have seen the amendments on heating and cooling, and the commission will carefully consider what more can be done in this respect. in the current context of high oil prices we have to react with determination and ambition. i outlined my five-point plan earlier today, a plan which has the support of the commission. i once again thank the rapporteur and the committee on industry, research and energy for taking the initiative to prepare the report that allows us to have the debate today, and will help the commission to come up with appropriate initiatives.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on his important report. given the significant benefits of renewable energy, the question is how can we further promote its development so that citizens in the future can enjoy its benefits? progress has been made, but the recent commission report also acknowledges that there is a significant delay in meeting the objectives set by directive 2001/77/ec. so we have to do more, and i think we have to do more in four areas. the first is to create a more favourable policy environment for renewable energy, and here the role of governments is crucial, as, unfortunately, the big multinationals continue to invest, above all, in oil. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. the second pillar is to create an appropriate legal framework to support renewable sources. a framework that will overcome the constraints of an energy system which, together with its legal bases, was built at a time when renewable energy was almost unknown. the third is to rapidly scale up both public and private investment in research to develop better and cheaper renewable technologies, and the fourth is to set binding quantitative targets by 2020 for both total renewable energy production and for electricity, cooling and heating. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. the last crisis only underscores it. the last five-point action plan of mr piebalgs, i think, is moving in that direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, we need to promote the autonomy of island systems in the european union. in my country, for example, we have many islands that are cut off from the national electricity transmission grid. advanced hybrid power plant technologies combining renewable energy sources and storage technologies should be a priority for autonomous energy systems. in this way we can have autonomous and decentralized power plants, but also continuous production and supply of energy to the consumer. the second issue concerns mainly solar and wind energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the energy supply in the community. it is necessary for the commission to study best practices in network management in order to solve such problems. this must be our first concern if we are to have renewable energy penetration into the energy system of any country.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner rehn in particular for his objective presentation of the dramatic situation of minorities in kosovo. it is particularly worrying that for the first time since 1999, the european parliament is discussing the issue of minority rights in kosovo, and this is really worrying: this policy of double standards, this selective sensitivity towards the serb minority and other minorities in kosovo. if we look, mr president, at the situation as it is shaping up on the basis of reports from both the unhcr and the un special representative, we will observe that since 2004, after the bloody events and killings of serbs and other minorities, nothing has improved in kosovo in terms of protecting the rights of minorities. we are witnessing a continuing ethnic bleeding, not to mention a new ethnic cleansing against the minorities in kosovo by the most hardline nationalist circles in albania. un resolution 1244 of 1999 is not only not being implemented, it is being undermined. none of the eight criteria underlying the principle of 'standards before status' has been met and i would like to ask the commissioner what the european union's policy is, namely whether it will agree to the opening of negotiations at the un on the final status of kosovo without these criteria being met. the european union has developed a european strategy based on the conclusions of the thessaloniki european council. we support a multiethnic and democratic kosovo, with a view to its future integration into the european institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission should make use of community programmes such as cards to finance development programmes as well as education, culture and youth programmes for the benefit of all kosovo citizens. it should also finance the restoration of churches and cultural monuments belonging to minorities, especially the serbian minority. i would like to conclude by saying that the european parliament must take up its own responsibilities.
mr president, the green light for the release of chinese textiles was clearly a concession to china. it is contrary to the logic of shanghai to controlled increase in imports in order to give the european industry time to adjust. the commission's bureaucracy is also very responsible here. the commission has already proposed that the interests of importers be taken into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's textile industry is not left in the lurch. factories are closing one after another. the interests of the importers are not concerned with the employment of workers. that is the european interest. the commission, as the guardian of the european interest, is called upon to ensure that. i am not personally in favour of neoconservatism in international economic relations. however, china's export aggressiveness shows that the balance of the world trade system requires converging systems, institutional transparency, converging social and environmental protection standards. it also calls for the effective protection of intellectual and industrial property and the avoidance of economic, social and ecological dumping. i also believe that effective measures should be taken to gradually adapt the european textile industry and the necessary balancing measures in accordance with wto law. the commission should not be using a declaratory language. we in parliament have mrs savfi's report and the accompanying resolution, and we are pointing the way forward for the european commission.
mr president, the problems of the european textile industry have been foreseeable for several years and will not be an isolated case, since similar situations exist in the production of other goods, such as footwear, cars, steel, etc. the capitalist restructuring of world trade, and in particular of the textile industry, has resulted in huge profits for the large business groups of textile exporters and distributors and for capital in general. at the same time, thousands of men and women are being thrown onto the road to unemployment. according to official figures from the european textile agency, 1 million jobs will be lost in the member states by the end of 2006. what is the rationale behind this rhetoric about the introduction of chinese products into the member states? it is obvious that an attempt is being made to cover up the responsibilities of the european union and the governments of the member states, the anti-people policy which is based on competitiveness, the profit of large companies, of capital. the workers need to draw the necessary political conclusions, since the evidence in the reports shows that 60% of china's exports to the world come from foreign investments made in this country. this is why radical changes in the level of economy and power are needed for equal international economic relations and popular prosperity.
the textile and clothing sector in greece is in a dramatic situation. i would like to mention a few points to the commissioner: in 2004 alone, the number of redundancies exceeded 15 000. recently, new textile factories have been closing in areas of greece such as corinth, thessaloniki, thrace. it's a critical problem and the country's traditional production fabric is being affected and unemployment is rising. but it is a wider problem: european rather than national. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the question is how the european union will react and how it will use the mechanisms of the world trade organization. the question is what integrated european policy europe has to modernize and strengthen the competitiveness of the european textile industry. the european citizens do not now believe that the shanghai agreement was the right framework, or rather that it came too late. the european citizens also believe that the september agreement reached by the commission will not stand. the problem will come back stronger next year. it is very difficult, commissioner, to convince european citizens who are losing their jobs and are unemployed that the european union has every interest in full liberalisation, because it can export its own products and services to china. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission should develop a new integrated strategy for the textile sector in view of the critical milestone of 2008. it should be more active in defending the european union's rights in the world trade organisation. i would like to conclude by asking the commissioner to inform us what the european commission intends to do about textile companies which have received community funding and then either moved their activities outside europe or have closed down. it is a matter of great importance and requires the immediate reaction of the european commission.
in writing. the resolution of the 60th un assembly bears the stamp of the new imperialist order, partially overturns the un's constitutional principles and creates the conditions for its manipulation by the us and other imperialist powers. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. in the name of peace and collective security, changes are being made to the use of military force by the un, which indirectly involve nato and the rapid intervention forces in its operation. a new intervention mechanism is being set up, called the peace building commission, which includes a military body, the world bank and the international monetary fund (see pic). the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the proposals of the usa and the other imperialists to abolish the human rights commission and to create a council, as well as the creation of a fund for democracy to be used to consolidate imperialist domination, were adopted. we oppose the joint resolution, noting that those who sign it bear a huge political responsibility, creating illusions in the peoples about the course of the un, while accepting the imperialist barbarity that must be overthrown.
in writing. the timing of the european parliament's vote (for the umpteenth time) on yet another condemnatory resolution against belarus makes it clear what has infuriated the protagonists of this new attack. they were outraged by the fact that the belarusian authorities took some measures against the activities of so-called ngos, which are well known to be funded by the imperialist countries' state purse to promote their policies. they were outraged by the truths that the president of belarus said in his speech at the un summit, about the positive role of the soviet union in the world system, and the consequences of its overthrow, which are the crimes against the former yugoslavia, afghanistan and iraq. for the imperialists' attempts to turn the un into a tool for promoting their interests. they were angered by belarus' support for the peoples of cuba and venezuela, as well as for any people who want to choose their own path of development without foreign interference. we are voting against the unacceptable condemnation of belarus. we are opposed to the creation of a separate 'european fund for democracy', because it will be another tool in the service of the eu's imperialist interventions: we express our solidarity with the people of belarus and wish them continued progress in defying the foreign threats and interventions of the imperialist usa, nato and the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the most populous country in the world is an economic superpower capable of influencing the course of the world economy. it is undoubtedly a force with which all other economic zones will have to compete. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with its accession to the wto in 2001 and the opening of its market to international trade, china is now a major player in international trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but one of the obstacles to harmonious eu-china relations is the problem of piracy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the chinese authorities. the commission must therefore take appropriate measures to protect the intellectual property of european companies and support the chinese authorities in their fight to control the problem. member states should in turn carry out effective internal market controls to protect european consumers from products not complying with the 'c' standard. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. china should improve the links between its transport networks and international networks in order to facilitate the free movement of people and goods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, i would like to ask: is it advisable for the commission to establish a closer partnership with the people's republic of china by extending bilateral cooperation to more areas, which could prove beneficial to both sides? it is therefore in the european union's interest to support the consolidation of democracy and the market economy and the development of china into a free and open country under the rule of law.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, thank you for allowing me to reply to what has been an important and timely debate. i shall respond to a number of the remarks that have been made. let me begin by agreeing with commissioner figel’ that migration requires, as he described it, a balanced approach to protect the rights of those in need of protection and to combat illegal immigration. mrs klamt and mrs roure rightly expressed concerns about reports of migrants left in the deserts. this is clearly unacceptable and underlines the need to cooperate with and assist third countries to provide better migration management. in a powerful contribution mr watson drew attention to the proximity and importance of africa to the interests of the european union. this matter was also brought up in the contributions by mr barón crespo, mr cavada and mr brok. that of course is the case; it is a sentiment with which i wholeheartedly agree. that is why it is for me a matter of immense pride that in the course of this year the european union has shown such leadership. this was shown ahead of the gleneagles summit – when decisions were taken effectively to double levels of bilateral international aid provided by european union member states; then once again at the gleneagles summit itself, where there was further action to secure multilateral debt write-off for many of the world’s highly-indebted poorest countries; and then as recently as september at the millennium review summit, where leading european nations were seen to work in concert to ensure an agenda that was progressive in advancing the interests of the united nations as we look ahead to the challenges of the coming century. mr catania criticised the council’s engagement with libya, but on this point i am afraid i have to disagree with him. the council does not share his view. the migration dialogue with libya underlines the european union’s expectations of libya in areas such as human rights and we believe it is important to influence libyan behaviour and commitment to human rights by comprehensive engagement. i shall try and draw my remarks briefly to a conclusion because i am conscious of the constraints of time. as i said earlier, it is important that we realise that the problems faced by spain, italy and malta are shared by the european union as a whole. they are also problems for europe’s neighbours like libya and morocco, and for countries in sub-saharan africa where the pressures of illegal migration are perhaps greatest. the long-term solution lies in working in partnership. in the past the european union’s engagement with countries outside the european union to combat illegal immigration has frankly not been effective enough. that is now changing and the european union is beginning to engage its collective weight to enhance cooperation and migration with source and transit countries. this will be a priority for future work under the united kingdom presidency, including when foreign ministers meet to discuss the issue this coming november. however, i warn against over-simplification of the migration issue. the european union’s policy on migration and asylum needs to be carefully balanced and carefully considered. it should not confuse the objective of stronger border controls that stop illegal immigration with the objective of protecting refugees, which is a fundamental value of our european union. we should push ahead with eu cooperation with third countries. this is the only way to avoid further human tragedies in the mediterranean and establish managed migration that works in the interests of both the european union and our neighbours.
member of the commission. mr president, i have only a few words to add as i think this topic is not only to be covered today but also tomorrow and some days thereafter. it is a question which touches on many other related issues: not only development, but also external relations and the future of europe. i would like to express my gratitude to the members of the european parliament, not only for their speeches, but also their valuable suggestions and ideas for further action. migration has many causes. we have to look into, and deal with, these root causes and we need to act much more than we have until now. this phenomenon is not only growing, but is having an increasing impact on our current situation. just to remind you that many years ago – 60 years ago or more – people from europe were fleeing to other continents. now europe is an attractive place. we should not be apathetic to the results of integration. we should be active in sharing solidarity and justice, as the cement of our european house, with the people around europe. i believe that respect for human rights, the culture of human rights and the mainstreaming of human rights in all other policies with our partners, with countries of origin or of transit, should become a permanent part of our relations or criteria. we need a comprehensive approach which brings together development policy, economic cooperation, humanitarian policy and, of course, justice and home affairs. the commission promotes such an attitude and will promote it further together with the united nations. i am sure that in november, on the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process, the same approach will be expressed even more deeply and intensely. it is an important time for reflection on the future of this region. this house will discuss later this evening the union’s strategy on africa. today, the eu donates 60% of the total amount of aid to africa. this is by far the highest volume in comparison with other countries and organisations in the world. we will help to overcome many problems – and as was mentioned, enable people to see a future in their countries – not only with aid, but also with policies which promote basic values, education and better living conditions. i would like to conclude by assuring you, mr president, that we will discuss the issue at the hearing tomorrow in the european parliament. we are increasingly interdependent and, as mrs buitenweg said, the european project is really about civilisation: civilisation not only for us, but for the world in general.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr barón crespo, you have the floor on a personal matter. we will not open a debate on the subject; i'm just here to talk to you about something that concerns you and you want to clarify.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on iran.
madam president, the question that arises is what do we want: do we want a new iraq in iran? we must not adopt an aggressive resolution that could be used as an alibi by the americans for a unilateral invasion of iran. i'm afraid to see innocent victims again like in madrid and london. i wouldn't want to see oil go back to $70 and $100. we must therefore proceed along another path: dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. to entertain the fears of iran. we must reduce his intolerance and disarm his fanaticism. fanaticism is a weapon worse than nuclear weapons. deng xiaoping said: "you never corner a cat; you always let her go one way". we're the ones who are cornering the cat. i do not want the cat in my face, i do not want the cat in the face of europe. it's absurd what the americans want. america asks us to bring islam to europe with turkey and asks us to fight islam in the face of persia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, the negotiations on skopje begin in one month. there is a pending: a pending with the name. they claim the name of greek macedonia. we must therefore take some initiative in the wake of the failure of the american negotiator, mr nimitz. i therefore call on the european parliament to address itself to intellectuals, to teachers, to go to libraries and read in which language aristotle, protagoras, democritus wrote, in which language alexander the great spoke and, finally, to see justice done. we must not allow what is happening: the looting of a name that does not belong to them and a history that does not belong to them either. these people, the friendly people, came to the region in the 8th century. how can he claim the history of macedonia dating back to the 5th century bc? finally, we want justice. you understand there's a law that's drowning us. we want an initiative from the european union. europe must deal with its neighbourhood.
mr president, the proposal by the european commission and commissioner louis michel to draw up a new strategic relationship between the european union and africa is a real break in the european union's development policy. for the first time, the european union is going beyond the traditional logic of humanitarian aid and development cooperation and is moving towards the formulation, and i hope the immediate implementation, of a comprehensive strategy for africa. africa cannot have any future if it continues to rely on the charity of the rich. a peaceful revolution is needed to change the structures of production, of the economy, of trade, of agriculture, of institutions, of education. no international strategy for africa can succeed unless it contributes to the consolidation of democratic governance institutions, the fight against authoritarian regimes, the strengthening of civil society and the defence of human rights and democratic freedoms. the european commission should develop specific programmes for the media, non-governmental organisations, universities and research institutes in africa. the european commission's objective of strengthening regional, economic and trade integration is crucial to combating poverty and economic development on the african continent. but this objective cannot be achieved on its own. the european union must also take additional action to ensure a fair system of world trade, to improve the functioning of the world trade organisation and to bring about a bold reform of the system of generalised preferences for the benefit of the poorest countries.
mr president, the linking of education with the lisbon strategy is intended to replace integrated education with fragmentary and unscientific knowledge and information depending on the needs of the market at the time. and this, in our opinion, changes the character of education and turns it into a vulgar commodity. the aim of lifelong training is to meet the demands of capital, flexible forms of work and the creation of lifelong semi-skilled workers who will have to be retrained to provide continuous new profits. it opens the way for corporate intrusion into education and research which will lead to the complete privatisation of education and a dramatic downgrading of the educational level of workers with the aim of decoupling education and degrees from work and strengthening the manipulation and control of their consciences. you want to train cheap, obedient workers to produce big profits: that's your strategy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. education should educate, not produce cheap and obedient workers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as society evolves, it is necessary to regularly adjust the priorities of european youth policy. the adoption of the european pact for youth by the heads of state or government on 22 and 23 march 2005 is a development of particular importance in this field. this is because, for the first time, common lines of action are being defined for all the member states in important areas of european policy, such as employment and education. the aim of this pact is to improve the education, training, mobility, occupational integration and social integration of young people in the european union. it is therefore a key prerequisite for ensuring continuous and sustainable growth in europe, as young people are the future workforce and the future source of research skills, innovation and entrepreneurship. in this context, it is necessary to implement the european youth pact, which is binding on the member states, i.e. to keep the committee informed of the progress of the pact in its annual reports to the european commission on the progress of the national reform programmes of the lisbon strategy. member states should also take into account that 17.9% of the unemployment rate is among young people under 25. the knowledge society is therefore a key to lisbon's success. the european council in brussels in december last year called for the european union to take action to promote the integration of the 25 member states into the european union. this would ensure the quality of european education and enable member states to develop more coherent policies to improve their performance against the lisbon objectives. in addition, reducing the number of young people who leave school early and exploring access to higher education are essential objectives to be achieved by 2010. in conclusion, improving young people's foreign language skills is an important resource for europe's youth participating in the knowledge society.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows into the european union, which have increased considerably since the 1980s, confirm the need to introduce specific measures of educational support in the schools of the member states for children whose mother tongue is different from the language of their social environment. the member states must therefore support all measures to safeguard linguistic diversity and limit the technical difficulties which prevent the achievement of this objective. the education systems should ensure that all pupils learn foreign languages because the aim of the european union was and is a truly multilingual european society. the action of the institutions in this context is also aimed at ensuring equal educational rights for children who speak a different language in their family environment. all policies that act towards the elimination of all forms of discrimination are necessary. multilingualism therefore has two dimensions. on the one hand, it has a functional role as a tool for achieving communication between people of different backgrounds. on the other hand, it is an important means of forming a european identity. after all, learning and speaking languages other than our mother tongue encourages us to be more open to others, to their cultural values and to their views. multilingualism creates new prospects. it is undoubtedly an important factor in promoting social inclusion and encouraging sociality in the european union. moreover, let us not forget that it contributes to the creation of a truly integrated european labour market by enabling citizens to make full use of the right to live, work and study in another member state. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr portas on the integration of immigrants into europe through multilingual education and schools is a report of major importance for all the member states. the report was unanimously accepted in our committee and mr portas was congratulated. the right of school-age children of immigrants living in our countries must be extended from learning the host language to learning the mother tongue and to access the culture of their country of origin. the learning of the mother tongue must not, however, be at the expense of the language of the host country, which must remain the main language of instruction. the multilingualism which the union is promoting as a means of dialogue between cultures thus takes on a new integration dimension. it reinforces interculturalism as a new direction in education, further consolidates multiculturalism as a distinctive identity of the european area and highlights a potential developmental asset for our societies. in recent decades, migration in europe has been mainly internal, that is, europe's populations move within its borders. and these movements have, in many countries, changed the cultural map forever. in greece, for example, the permanent foreign population accounts for 10% of the total population. greece has been transformed from an exporting country into a host country for immigrants, the majority of whom are of working age. they have school-age children and are faced with staying in our country for the long term. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. all this reality is transferred to the school which acts as a mirror of a society. until recently, our education systems operated on the basis of an assimilation approach where the presence in school of immigrant children with a different language and cultural expression from the official one was treated as a problem to be sidelined. for this reason, greece has adopted, as early as 1996, a law establishing intercultural education as a component of its educational system.
mr president, after this fine history lesson i shall briefly repeat what has been said, with some new ideas. the free movement and establishment within the european union is one of the fundamental freedoms of its citizens. the redeployment and utilisation of human resources in quality jobs is a strategic approach to achieving the 2010 targets. along with adults, a significant proportion of european youth is moving and relocating. multilingual education and the provision of quality basic and lifelong education to these categories of european citizens, alongside immigrants, is a fundamental right for them and an investment for each state and for the european union as a whole. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to congratulate the committee on culture and education and mr portas on the initiative in drawing up this report. i hope, commissioner, that the positive remarks in the report will help the commission in the formulation and modernisation of directive 77/486. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first, respect for the member states' competence for the content of teaching and the organisation of their education systems in accordance with article 149. secondly, to promote the learning and maintenance of the ability to use the mother tongue of immigrants, first of all europeans and, above all, the rest, taking care of their country of origin in agreement of course also with the host country. thirdly, coordinated provision and controlled use by the member states of the many programmes you have mentioned and of the financial mechanisms under the supervision of the commission.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank mr beaupuy for drawing up an excellent report. it suggests a number of very concrete steps which can be taken to reinforce work on urban issues within the context of enlargement in the european parliament, the commission and the council. in particular i appreciate your strong support for strengthening the urban dimension in future cohesion policy. the motion for a resolution is clear proof of the european parliament’s strong commitment and dedication to urban policy. i also noted with great interest your proposal to amend annex vi to the rules of procedure of the european parliament on the subject of the areas of competence of the committee on regional development to incorporate the urban dimension. i am convinced that towns and cities play a central role in achieving greater competitiveness, more growth and more and better jobs in europe. that is why we intend to place urban actions at the core of cohesion policy. i share your view that urban planning should incorporate a wide spectrum of policies and develop integrated spatial and thematic urban policy on a human scale to ensure people-friendly cities. i agree with you that we must further reinforce urban policy development priorities. in fact, i have asked my services to prepare a detailed analysis on the contribution of cities to growth and jobs in the regions. a working paper will complement the community strategic guidelines. it will also provide more specific guidance on how cities and regions can cooperate when preparing and implementing cohesion policy programmes. this document will also bring out more clearly those city-focused priorities which the commission considers to be indispensable or highly promising in order to implement cohesion programmes successfully. as you know, a number of thematic priorities – such as the knowledge economy, social cohesion and urban environment – are set out in the draft community strategic guidelines. cities can make an important contribution to these. it is my aim to discuss this document with member states’ regions and cities. the debate will be opened at the uk informal council on sustainable communities on 6 december in bristol, where we will present our paper. afterwards we will start a wide consultation, the results of which will be used to draw up the final version of the community strategic guidelines. i look forward to an extensive exchange of views on this working paper on cities with the honourable members of parliament. this paper will also respond to your request to develop and propose models and tools for sustainable urban development. it will provide recommendations based on current good practice in promoting sustainable local communities through an integrated approach. many lessons will be drawn from cities participating in our urbact networks. in addition, the thematic strategy for sustainable urban development, being prepared under the framework of the sixth environmental action programme, will be a further step in enhancing dialogue between the commission and national and local authorities. this thematic strategy on urban environment is currently scheduled for adoption by the commission on 21 december 2005. your motion for a resolution also calls on the commission to move towards a horizontal application of the urban dimension and towards coordination between the departments of the commission that are directly or indirectly concerned with urban issues. i can assure you that the services are already working in close collaboration on the urban content of the community strategy guidelines. in the light of the results of this work, and after the adoption of the legislative framework for cohesion policy 2007-2013, we will assess the working practices with a view to ensuring efficient cross-service coordination on urban issues. my intention at this stage will be to establish an interdepartmental task force along the same lines as your urban housing intergroup to ensure a horizontal approach to policy measures which affect cities. finally, you asked the commission to ensure that intervention in towns and cities and urban agglomerations is strengthened. as you know, our proposal for the future cohesion policy programmes foresees that each member state will present a list of urban areas that will benefit from specific assistance within the regional programmes. it also makes provision for sub-delegating the implementation of programme management to the cities themselves. however, unfortunately, as we all know, the council has rendered these provisions optional, like a number of other measures in favour of cities, such as the consultation of urban authorities in the framework of partnership. i count very much on your support to convince the member states to reinstate our initial ideas in the negotiations. the lack of strong commitment from the member states would undermine our efforts towards strengthening the urban dimension in our policy and it would call into question some of our concrete initiatives, like the urban audit programme. i also wish to tell you that there has been some progress on urban-related issues in the negotiations as well. the uk presidency has proposed to turn urban sustainable development into a fully-fledged priority, in addition to those priorities proposed under the convergence and regional competitiveness objectives. let me assure you that i have no doubts that we need both cities and regions if we want to achieve greater competitiveness, more growth and better jobs. i am also confident that the cities will receive the place in our policy which they deserve. (applause)
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr beaupuy, for dealing with a subject which is so important for the development objectives of the european union and for the daily lives of citizens, since the vast majority of citizens live in urban and semi-urban areas. in particular, the achievement of social and regional cohesion within the union of 25 member states and in view of further enlargement requires us to study the diverse factors affecting life in urban centres and to propose coordinated and effective interventions through all our policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. as you know, we believe that the urban strategy should include a wide range of policies and options in transport, environment, town and country planning, economic activity, migration policy, public health, social inclusion and security. in this web of policies, the gender dimension must be taken seriously. this means that women must be involved in the design of the human cities we all want to achieve, cities that address the common problems of our fellow citizens, but also address those arising from the particular living conditions of both sexes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. i believe that the consultation of local communities, to which you have just referred, will take account of the balanced participation of men and women in the consultative bodies. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to point out that in the new financial perspective, where we will no longer have the community initiatives as we have known them, we must not forget to include this gender dimension as is clear from the experience we already have and from the new positions and proposals presented today in our rapporteur's proposal.
mr president, 80% of the european population lives in cities. it would therefore be absurd for the policy of the structural funds to ignore the problems of cities, whether it be unemployment, crime or quality of life. this parliament has always shown its interest in the problems of cities, large and small, and in 1999, i should remind you, the community initiative urban was maintained thanks to the persistence of the european parliament. the beaupuy report underlines this interest and sends the message to the european commission and the council that we must now take a greater interest in the problems of cities. we know that the structural funds regulations incorporate the urban community initiative into the core programmes, which parliament welcomes and supports in the negotiations we are having with the council on the new structural funds regulations for the period 2007-13. at the same time, we will try to give greater emphasis to the urban dimension in these negotiations, with particular emphasis on the request to include a list of cities to be covered by the structural funds programmes for all member states for the period 2007-2013 in order to specify the actions of the member states for cities. we are also awaiting the guidelines of the european commission to see how the european union's interest in cities is being specified and we are here to discuss specific proposals from the european commission, always remaining true to the line that the european parliament has drawn for many years. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we take for granted that the aim of our efforts is to improve the quality of life for all our citizens and to achieve balanced development for the societies in which we live, how can the urban dimension not be a priority on the political agenda? cities play an important role in the social, economic and cultural life of europe. the european cities and urban areas, where 78% of the population live, present a paradox today. on the one hand, they are growth engines in an increasingly competitive global economy, accumulating wealth, knowledge, know-how. they are also centres for the provision of public services, such as education, health care, transport. on the other hand, many of the most serious problems of our modern society are found in cities: severe problems of poverty and social exclusion, degradation of the natural and built environment, lack of greenery and pollution of the atmosphere, loss of local identity, increased crime, and, at the same time, racism problems are more pronounced in our cities. the link between regional development and urban development is clear and cannot be ignored in our efforts to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. our cities are not isolated. all cities, regardless of their size, together with their surrounding peripheral and rural areas, are the driving force of each region and can play a central role in the implementation of the revised lisbon or gothenburg objectives. the need to manage the urban issue at european level is therefore essential. urban policy should be at the heart of efforts to build a strong, competitive and sustainable europe, while maintaining social cohesion. in the new programming period, policies contributing to the development of europe's territorial systems should be complementary, coordinated and consistent. the efforts of all partners at local, regional, national and european level to make the most of the potential for sustainable development in cities should also be coordinated. both the crossborder and the urban dimension should be part of all european union policies.
in writing. the claims of quality assurance and upgrading of education through assessment are a challenge and directly challenge the quality of higher education as it has been up to now. it is essentially a tool for the private financing and commercialisation of education and research, and aims at creating two-tiered institutions, with 'centres of excellence' and declining institutions. the register of public and private rating agencies and companies is nothing but a centralised eu mechanism, which will determine and control the adaptation of higher education to the interests of monopolies. the result will be the further subordination of education and research to market needs and their conversion into 'products' to be provided by 'enterprise' universities, aimed at increasing their clientele, and indeed by an international student elite. the evaluation is a downgrade, not an improvement, of the quality of universities, and does not look to fulfill their social mission, but to increase the profitability of capital through opportunistic courses and market-oriented research. the balanced development of scientific disciplines and the response of universities to their social role are matters for the university community in cooperation with the popular movement, and not the subject of mechanisms of supervision and control based on private economic criteria, that is why we are voting against the report.
in writing. the debate on iran in the european parliament, under the pretext of the nuclear problem and human rights violations, is related to more general imperialist plans and competitions for control of its wealth-producing resources and the wider region. the eu's positions and the resolution have multiple objectives. they blame iran, they exonerate the bush administration, which has called iran an "axis of evil" and is threatening war. they project a nuclear danger while concealing the existence of nuclear weapons and the threat of their use by the us and other imperialist powers. they pose as human rights defenders because they want to promote regimes they control. they are pretending to mediate a peaceful solution to the problem in order to safeguard the interests of european monopolies in iran. the eu is being drawn into us propaganda to familiarize the public with a possible intervention and claim a share of the spoils. the nuclear problem of iran cannot be dealt with selectively but in a more general policy of nuclear disarmament. the imperialist powers are denying it and are promoting the production of nuclear weapons for use in regular wars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we vote against in solidarity with the people of iran. the people of the wider region must be mobilized against american and eu imperialism.
mr president, a leading european journalist wrote a few days ago that we are opening the door to barbarism. and apparently he's right. it describes the events in turkey, the violence against intellectuals, journalists and so on. the day before yesterday, during the visit of the epp, turkey refused entry to mr varvitsiotis, a greek mep, and held him hostage for three hours, not recognizing the passport you have granted us. but today i'm going to talk to you about another kind of violence. the violence against archbishop ohrid. the archbishop, that is, of firom. he's been imprisoned, his stripes have been taken away, his bible has been taken away and he's been forbidden to take communion. such barbarity was not seen even in the darkest moments of the middle ages. i therefore call on the european parliament to send a committee to look into the circumstances in which the archbishop is being held. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the past, and it is not just the council that has been the instrument of the european parliament's decision-making. this has never happened before. i would therefore say that if we really want to talk about justice, to talk about human rights, to show that we respect human rights, we should send a committee to look at the barbarity of this country which is "just a little bit away from brussels".
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of great and profound change both at european and global level, it is natural that the committee on culture and parliament should attach great importance to an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning. the lisbon strategy recalls the objectives of education adapted to new technologies, multilingualism, diversity and strengthening of programmes. in this context, particular importance is also attached to student mobility, school exchanges and cross-border mobility of teachers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'disabled' in the wording of the directive, which is to be incorporated in the directive. but i would also like to stress the obligation of the european parliament to support the specific aspects of specific amendments, particularly in the budgetary fields for specific programmes, in order to show our sensitivity to the protection of the history of cultures and the need for knowledge and training of citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the adaptation of member states' education policies to the prospects of lifelong learning recalls and confirms that education is the cornerstone of lisbon, contributing to both social and economic development.
mr president, the erasmus, leonardo and all the others, comenius, gruntwig and others, have been crowned with real success and are perhaps the most popular and best known of the european union's programmes to the general public. they have not only contributed to the modernisation of education and training systems, but have also made a major contribution to the strengthening of exchanges between young people, in particular by helping them to come into direct contact with the language, culture and education of other european countries. it is therefore very important that these programmes be extended to as many young people as possible, and especially to the least privileged. comenius student exchanges must cover at least one in fifteen students in the programme. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the granting of a community-wide financial contribution to the european schools is a good one, but it is not enough to ensure that the funds are used to finance the necessary measures. the budget must therefore be increased to meet the aspirations of the european people and to achieve the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, through the ongoing youth in action programme, the european union is trying to manipulate young people, to create illusions that it is interested in their participation in politics and to turn them into passive recipients and applauders of its anti-people policy which also creates a dead end for young people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the social partners are not involved in the decision-making process. when the whole philosophy of european union policy is to subordinate everything to the maximisation of capital profits, when for this purpose it abolishes the rights that existed by handing over young people to cruel and cynical exploitation, is it not a sham to allocate a few million euros to cash in on the sad future that capitalism holds out for it? is it not hypocritical to say that it is fostering solidarity among young people when the imperialist policy of neo-colonial wars is sending hundreds of thousands of young people to death, starvation and bankruptcy? the programme finances actions that will promote the so-called values of the european union, i.e. the creation of a non-franchised workforce and scientific capacity to maximise return on capital. it promotes voluntary work, that is, unpaid work, and social consensus. it proposes the creation of volunteers with specific qualifications for missions to countries outside the european union to set up agencies to promote its policy. at the same time, it funds state-sponsored organizations which have no connection with the youth movement and which, of course, fully accept the policy of the european union and appear to represent the youth of the countries. the way to tackle the problems of youth is through organized struggle, in conflict with the politics of the european union and the european union itself, to open the way at the national and international level for profound changes and upheavals for the benefit of the peoples.
mr president, commissioner, the culture 2007 programme is the main instrument for implementing community action in the field of culture. it sets a number of important objectives, such as the transnational mobility of cultural operators in europe, the transnational circulation of artists and cultural works, and cultural dialogue, which cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states because of their transnational nature. the programme is also the means of financing these objectives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the establishment of a european cultural heritage centre, the european cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the cultural, the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of pollution by gases from the atmosphere, as amended by the council directive of 18 december 1985, is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our rapporteur, mr graça moura, who has done an excellent job, is very familiar with this subject and his report takes account of the needs of small cultural operators and, by extension, of small countries.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, the report to our dear colleague mr hieronymi on the proposed programme to support the european audiovisual sector provides an opportunity for a brief but systematic analysis of the situation on the european audiovisual market, where small firms dominate fragmented national markets with little cross-border circulation. but the brief review today of the new results of media and media plus gives great hope, commissioner, that media 2007 will help to further stabilise competition between european and foreign audiovisual producers and that it will lead to a multiplication of the use of each of the 1055 million euros for investment, training and development projects. as the author of the opinion report on behalf of the committee on women's rights, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, on her suggestions for improving the proposed programme. it hopes that by enhancing new technologies and promoting the competitiveness of the european film industry, european diversity and the preservation and dissemination of the cultural heritage of cinema will be supported, and opportunities will be provided for quality projects that promote the european idea, human values, human dignity, mutual respect, equality between men and women and the protection of children and young people. at the same time, the programme's pre- and post-production interventions will help to overcome the weaknesses of small national markets in order to preserve and enhance the cultural wealth of small states such as my own. the rapporteur, however, notes that this is not achieved only by national but also by non-national european companies, provided they have access to specialised credit institutions. we hope, commissioner, that under your inspired guidance in 2013 the ratio of european and foreign audiovisual producers will be at least 50/50.
mr president, commissioner, i think we have all agreed on the findings, we have discussed them many times in our committee, the subject has been exhausted and the conclusions are common. the european audiovisual sector is marked by a high degree of fragmentation. european film production takes place within the framework of a single state, which naturally results in a cultural and linguistic diversity in film production. the great wealth of linguistic and cultural diversity in europe is, however, also the cause of the major structural problem of the audiovisual market in europe. the european union is not only a major trading partner, but also a major trading partner, and it is also a major trading partner of the european union. but the problem is not numerical. it's cultural first. for example, has european culture been spreading to asia or africa through cinema for at least the last 20 years? no, of course not.
i'm the deputy editor. mr president, the world health organization and the european centre for disease prevention and control have issued extremely serious warnings, based on scientific evidence, about a possible influenza pandemic in the future. we are therefore discussing a topical matter which directly concerns public health and, of course, from our discussion today, with the commissioner present, i expect to draw both conclusions and commitments for action. the possible source of the pandemic - i will be brief on this because it is well known - is the highly pathogenic avian influenza virus h5n1, which, if combined with the human seasonal influenza virus, is likely to take a highly aggressive form that is not covered by existing vaccines and that is precisely why there is a risk of a pandemic. and i would like to say here that the commissioner has already told us that he has started some discussions and plans so that the new vaccine that we will need to produce can be produced as soon as possible, not in the six to eight months that are normally required, but much sooner. so if the influenza virus - this pandemic - could spread from one continent to another within a few days, it is obvious that to combat this pandemic, a series of measures, vaccines and medicines are needed, that is, a proper overall planning. how many of these do the european union have today? the commissioner is here to tell us exactly what is planned so far for these plans in the event of a pandemic. and of course, it's a question that we have to answer in the light of the recommendations of the world health organization. the aim of these plans should be:- to ensure the necessary coordination between member states, and this will be done by the european commission;- to avoid panic among the public;- to combat any speculation in case more vaccines and medicines are needed;- to identify areas where mobility should be somewhat restricted, because at the same time, of course, the virus travels with people; - the identification of the population groups to be vaccinated as a matter of priority; i would say, for example, that we should have started vaccinating people in poultry farming with the seasonal influenza virus, so as to minimise the possibility of one person carrying both viruses at the same time, which is very dangerous, and therefore to reduce the risk of a pandemic. we must therefore strengthen the union's capacity to respond to an influenza pandemic both through a network of laboratories and through mechanisms and budgetary means. a key element of effective preparedness is the early development and quantitatively adequate production of vaccines and antiviral medicines. for example, the world health organization says that we should have about 25 percent of the amount of these medicines stored. do we have 25% ? i am very much afraid that we are below that rate and that we will suddenly find ourselves in need of producing huge quantities. i hope, and the commissioner has already told us in another meeting, that he has had some discussions so that we can somehow fill this gap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all of this will have to be done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. if it is connected to other community alert systems concerning animal health, food, feed and civil protection. the commission must in fact strengthen its coordinating role and we are here, commissioner, to support you effectively in that role. we must be ruthless with those member states which either do not submit plans or, if they do, the plans are incomplete. we must help them, of course, but we must show a special fortitude towards them because, as we said, a pandemic is something that we must avoid, or at least, if it comes, deal with it properly. it is necessary to have a comprehensive communication policy. it is very important not to panic, but to have a constant exchange of information with neighbouring countries, inspections and animal sampling and, finally, all that we need to regulate in relation to the restriction of the mobility of citizens, especially in countries where this flu is likely to appear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will support you in this process so that we can have a comprehensive and effective plan so that if, and if, this pandemic comes, we can deal with it properly, without panic and with good results for the citizens of europe. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, we must first ask ourselves, is there a pandemic? there is no pandemic. is there an epidemic ? maybe not an epidemic. we have 60 deaths on record, which is the number of car accidents worldwide in ten minutes. has the virus infected humans? yes, he has offended him. there was the case in thailand two months ago where the farmer died, while his son got sick and survived. is there a vaccine for that? if we accept what the hungarian minister of health, mr geno rats, said, yes, there is a vaccine and he has been vaccinated. so if there is a vaccine, as an institutional agent, the minister of health of a european country, says, then why don't we take the vaccine and distribute it around the world. many industrialists made huge money off each drug, but the ranchers lost. so what do we do about these farmers who have lost a lot of minutes? my country slaughters 25 million chickens. so we're going to give all these people some kind of subsidy? tomorrow we're going to discuss the budget. is there a fund for a pandemic of this kind? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
mr president, i should first like to thank and congratulate the commission for its rapid reaction to public health matters, a policy which does not fall entirely within its competence, and i think that is the context of the european parliament's resolution which seeks to coordinate the public authorities on this important matter. but, mr president, in the context of a comprehensive policy at national and community level, and in conjunction with the lack of a genuine communication policy to inform citizens at national and community level, the poultry market has been shaken by the sharp drop in consumption. the commission, in cooperation with all the commissioners responsible, including mrs fischer boel, should activate: first, the policy of insuring rural incomes against market crises. the council of agriculture ministers will have to decide on this matter in the end. secondly, substantial community funding for the problems of poultry farms and thirdly, the necessary marking of poultry for consumption as coming from controlled farms, a marking which will help to intensify controls in poultry farms and restore consumer confidence in this sector.
mr president, commissioner, the threat of the spread of the avian influenza epidemic and its possible transformation into a pandemic is a visible and appalling prospect for birds and humans. the commission and the council must define measures. limit the spread of the disease to domestic and wild birds. ensure that the spread of the virus does not extend beyond commercial and domestic poultry holdings where laboratory cases of the virus have already been confirmed. protect populations of aquatic birds from both spread and groups of their natural predators. the rules on euthanasia where cases have been found, and on their burial, should be observed. compensation for the professionals in the sector, and the citizens to whom we owe protection from misinformation, safeguard against speculation and support schemes.
in writing. the integration of existing eu-funded education and training programmes into a single 'lifelong learning' programme is not accidental. it aims to shift the responsibility of the state to provide systematic and scientifically organized education to each individual so that he can acquire in any way fragmentary knowledge and skills, easily adapted to market needs, as a prerequisite for the possibility of employment (employability) and an alibi for unemployment. this is why the term "learning" was chosen instead of education or training. the aim of lifelong learning is to meet the capitalist demand for flexible workers, adapted to their ever greater exploitation. it is the greatest contribution to the 'european ideal', i.e. the competitiveness of european monopolies. the first to take an interest in 'lifelong learning' were the big industrialists, who in 1995 called on the member states to 'treat education as a process that extends from the cradle to the grave'. the programme is implementing this requirement, so there are no pseudo-humanitarian slogans about improving national systems, combating discrimination, etc. the negative experience of the implementation of similar measures in higher education shows that the integrated programme is affecting all levels of education in each member state.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what you have forgotten to tell us is what the real situation is in bulgaria and romania during the accession process. the real unemployment in bulgaria and romania is alarmingly high. major industrial and livestock facilities were shut down. traditional crops such as vine and tobacco have been destroyed or are on the way to destruction. even infrastructure projects, such as irrigation projects, were dismantled. irrigation pipes, the water channels of irrigation stations and their equipment were almost completely destroyed. in bulgaria, for example, total agricultural production has been reduced by more than 50% in order to sell the products of the european multinationals whose interests you defend. with the restoration of land ownership, the average size is 1.5 hectares, or 15 acres. very small agricultural area with no land, hence room for efficient cultivation. so you'll buy them for free, for a piece of bread. european multinationals will buy the land of bulgaria and romania. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the health and education systems are falling apart. the romanian government, commissioner, is today aiming to achieve the 1989 living standards you accused. you talk about democratic freedoms, about rights, but you are silent about the legislative ban, the action of the romanian communist party. you are silent about the unprecedented prison sentence, which has been imposed since february 1999, on the president of the romanian federation of miners' unions, miron kusma, who was imprisoned because he defended the interests of the miners who were being laid off by the thousands. this situation has consequences for greece as well. the fact that wages are very cheap is precisely what is driving companies, particularly from the northern greek region, to move to these countries in order to make more profit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the structural funds are used to the full. so welcome to the european union. the land of the promise, of the 20 million unemployed, of the 50 million poor, the european union crushing the rights of workers to accumulate incredible wealth for big capital.
the commission's assessment report, mr president, is an objective and realistic picture of the situation in the two countries. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the legislation in force in bulgaria is applied in full, and that the legislation in force in romania is applied in full. it is a fact which no one can dispute and no one can debunk. the commission's report is not a report on the situation in the community, but it is a report on the situation in the community. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of human rights in the united kingdom. as the commission report has pointed out, there are serious shortcomings in the fight against corruption, the restructuring of public administration, the modernisation of the judicial system, the fight against piracy and infringement of intellectual property rules, the integration of the community acquis, agriculture as regards plant and animal health protection, external border control, state aid in the steel sector, the environment, nuclear safety. these are significant shortcomings which affect not only the two countries' path towards membership, but also the neighbouring countries and the member states of the european union. issues such as animal health protection, plant health protection, the environment, nuclear safety, state aid, tax, insurance and labour dumping are also causing serious economic and social problems in the member states of the european union. i believe, mr president, that it is in the interest of the european union and the peoples of the two countries to remain firm in defending its enlargement strategy and to make every effort to complete the process of early integration of bulgaria and romania into the european union. the balkans are facing serious developments and the accession of bulgaria and romania will contribute to peace, enhance stability and security. but the message must be clear. the accession process will proceed without concessions, but without new conditions, and with the firm aim of fully integrating and implementing european principles and the acquis communautaire. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress that what is urgent is the european commission's contribution to the use of pre-accession financial assistance for bulgaria and romania, towards the full implementation of the acquis communautaire. it is the responsibility of the council to adopt the european parliament's proposals for the 2006 budget.
mr president, the quantitative criteria for accession are tangible and measurable. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. it is the responsibility of the union that it has not clarified the quality criteria in an objective, reliable and functional way, that it has not defined its political geography, its political boundaries, that it has not defined the dialectical relationship between deepening and enlargement. if these major questions had been answered, we would not have the dilemma of turkey, we would not have the uncertainty of the western balkans, we would not have the worries about bulgaria and romania. the crucial moment for assessing the readiness of the two countries for accession was the signing of the accession instruments. since then, the typical transitional period of political, institutional and administrative adjustment has been rightly granted and extended. the commission's report on the state of preparedness for accession of the two countries, which was presented today, is also correct. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in employment, vocational training and promotion of equal opportunities is a very important one. the european union must not be the cause of disappointment for the citizens of both countries. the principle of non-automation between candidacy and membership, which i subscribe to, cannot be an afterthought, an after-thought. bulgaria, romania and the union of 25 the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it.
mr president, we greek meps of the european people's party strongly support the prospect of romania and bulgaria joining the european union because we believe, among other things, that it will lead to a strengthening of stability and security in south-eastern europe. the commission report refers to the progress made in both countries; and these advances are important. the commission has also taken note of the delays in certain areas. the fight against corruption, the reorganization of the judicial system, the protection of the frontiers are some of the problems that need to be solved more quickly. the commission has also taken the view that the situation in the romanian economy is not satisfactory, and that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the situation in the country is not worsened. we are following closely the reports of the competent bodies and hope that the necessary legislative reforms will be made more rapidly. we also hope that bulgaria will keep the promises it has made, especially regarding the koslodui nuclear power plant. but i think that what is more important than the adaptation of legislation is its implementation - the practical application of it on a daily basis. the commission must also keep a close eye on this matter. i want to believe that these weaknesses will be overcome within the next 14 months so that we can wholeheartedly welcome these two countries as new members of the union on 1 january 2007.
member of the commission. i should like to emphasise again what the situation is today. there is no doubt that this is a very important matter. we all agree. within the energy market, we have a great responsibility as a commission for looking at competition, prices and the possibilities of a guarantee not only for today, but also for the future. having taken that into account, we have to take our responsibilities and decide who has to deal with this. that is the situation today. we have not yet been able to draw the final conclusion as to whether it is a matter for the national competition authority or the commission in brussels. as soon as that has been decided, you will be informed.
member of the commission. i have taken over from my good friend, commissioner piebalgs. as you are aware, he is unable to be here today because he has to sign a very important agreement. the commission is very concerned about the sharp escalation in oil prices over the last two years. while the impact on our economy of this increase in oil prices is currently less severe than in the 1970s, it is nonetheless having serious repercussions, particularly for our most vulnerable citizens and oil-intensive sectors. the commission is actively responding to the challenge of high and volatile oil prices and is following a five-point plan in this respect. the main elements are: to manage our demand for energy by measures to increase energy efficiency and energy savings; to increase the use of alternative forms of energy; to improve the transparency and predictability of oil markets; to increase the supply of oil and gas by promoting an increase of investment in production and refining capacities and, finally, effectively to manage energy disruption. in addition, the commission is actively increasing cooperation with the european union’s main external oil suppliers through initiatives such as the european union-russia energy dialogue and the european union- organisation of petroleum exporting countries (opec) dialogue. the commission is also planning a proposal to implement an eu-coordinated system for security oil stocks. the commission does not have the competence to regulate the price of crude oil or petroleum products, particularly given that the oil market is a global one. nevertheless, the commission intends to continue to work in close collaboration with all the parties concerned to increase the level of transparency in the market in order to reduce speculation.
madam president, for the first half of 2005, the 70 largest oil companies are expected to have profits of $230 billion this year. in the face of this profit-making frenzy, the european commission and governments, sensing the wave of workers' indignation at the irresponsible actions of the multinational oil companies, have occasionally issued warnings to the companies, which continue to make huge profits. in fact, your reply today leads to the conclusion that this is a conspiracy of the european commission, the governments of the member states and the companies against the workers. governments use oil to raise taxes, since every euro that a consumer pays for gasoline is 70 cents in taxes, while corporate profits are rising. what concrete measures does the european commission intend to take in view of the winter? (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. the question is a very interesting one. the commission is aware of the great responsibility in the energy sector. i can assure you that we in the commission, in particular commissioner piebalgs and myself, are aware of our great responsibility where competition policy is concerned.
member of the commission. mr president, the honourable member has put a number of questions, and the first question is whether there is a binding obligation on member states to collect waste by category. the directive on hazardous waste prohibits the mixing of hazardous waste of different categories and the mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. other european union legislation concerning specific waste streams complements this obligation for separate collection of waste. in addition, member states may take additional measures in accordance with their national policies. the second question is whether the commission considers that the practice, particularly as regards collection, destruction, etc., is successful or not. the commission believes that there is a clear need for better implementation of the legislation, we have major problems in the implementation of the legislation and it is committed to improving the implementation of the legislation. the waste policy is therefore a priority area of environmental legislation, and of course there are directives for various waste streams, such as the lubricants directive, the battery directive which is under discussion, the electrical and electronic waste directive, the end-of-life directive for cars, etc., which specify specific ways of sorting as well as collection and disposal. the question the honourable member asks about disclosure is also very important, namely whether disclosure and publicity help to tackle the problem. it certainly helps, because publicity, publicity and the greatest possible awareness among citizens are important elements in finding better solutions to waste management. i would also say that the polluter pays principle must be applied as a precautionary measure in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. and it is also the responsibility of the member states to take the appropriate measures to comply with community legislation on waste. there is now a question of funding. the european union is financing the fight against waste, which is one of the priorities of the cohesion fund. this financing can be provided through the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, and it is of course for disadvantaged regions and less prosperous countries in the european union which are entitled to receive corresponding funds to implement the community acquis in the field of the environment. this aid over the period 2000-2006 is expected to amount to approximately eur 2 billion. there are of course various other funding, for example from life, and there is going to be the new life+, for various actions, such as raising awareness among citizens about environmental issues and in particular waste.
madam president, commissioner, my interest in this matter reflects the anxiety of civil society. is it possible to assess the long-term environmental, economic and social consequences of non-compliance with the relevant community legislation and to find a more effective compliance procedure than bringing member states before the ecj?
member of the commission. the question is whether there are other ways of dealing with this huge waste problem without going to court. and to be honest, my greatest pleasure will be not to go to court and not have these kinds of proceedings, but through cooperation, through raising awareness among citizens, through better understanding and exchange of experiences from different countries, through the application of modern technology, we can find solutions and answers to the problems that concern different countries in the waste sector. and of course i should tell you that within the framework of the thematic strategies which the commission is presenting at the moment, in a few days - if i remember correctly in november - we will also be presenting the thematic strategy on the prevention, reduction and recycling of waste. it is a very important strategy, which is horizontal, holistic, which tackles the problem of waste as a whole and will certainly provide answers to many of the problems that exist and which often lead to litigation and to the courts. i hope that in this way the waste in the european union will firstly be reduced - and this is the main objective, that is to say, produce less waste -, secondly, reused or recycled, and only if these possibilities do not exist, ending up either in incineration, preferably with energy recovery, or in landfills, which i would like to say, because they are of particular interest to greece, we do not even know how many there are, and in many cases they are a source of pollution and a deterioration of the quality of life of citizens and at the same time they create problems for biodiversity and climate change because they emit a gas which is one of the gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect.
member of the commission. the problem concerns not only ireland, but other countries of the european union too. this is a very important directive that aims at collecting in the best possible way the waste from electrical and electronic equipment, either for partial re-use, recycling or safe disposal. because problems exist, we are preparing guidelines that will soon be available.
member of the commission. i agree that it is best to prevent the creation of waste, and plastic bags create problems. it is much better to have paper bags, for example. certain member states have introduced paper bags and have banned the use of plastic bags. the exchange of best experience is what we are doing, trying to get best experience from various member states. we organise seminars and visits to member states to inform them of what is happening elsewhere and how they can deal in the best possible way with the various environmental problems, giving them guidance and sometimes even financing for eligible projects.
member of the commission. the commission is aware of the concerns raised by the honourable member with regard to sewer overflows into the river thames. a number of complaints were registered following events in august 2004, which saw large quantities of untreated raw sewage entering the thames. the commission has drawn the attention of the united kingdom authorities to these concerns in a letter of formal notice issued under article 226 of the european community treaty, which was sent in march 2005. the letter of formal notice stressed the need for member states to ensure the adequacy of their collecting and treatment systems under the council directive concerning urban waste water treatment. a reply has been received from the united kingdom, and this is currently being assessed. that assessment is being carried out together with that of cases raising similar concerns about excessive storm water overflows in other parts of the united kingdom. if i remember correctly, two are in england and one is in scotland. the commission hopes to be in a position to decide what steps to take next in this matter before the end of the year. the commission is unable to comment on the legal advice given by the uk department for environment referred to by the honourable member, as it was not aware that such advice existed or that access to it had been refused.
member of the commission. i shall do whatever i can within my remit, which is to see that the requirements of the directive are met. of course, i shall work with you in order to help london, as you stressed in your question, avoid the embarrassment that this pollution from overflows of raw sewage would cause to the 2012 olympics. it is interesting to know that, if the problem is not resolved by then, the site of the proposed athletes’ village will overlook the overflow at abbey mills, with its associated smells and unsightly mess. it cannot be ruled out that athletes may be allowed to practise on the thames or that events may take place on the river itself. the commission is unable to take a position on the arrangements being made in london for the 2012 olympics. i must repeat that our only involvement is to ensure that the requirements of the directive concerning urban waste water treatment are met. you are right to say that these spills occurred not only during the very heavy rainfall in august 2004. according to an environment agency press release, these spills occur about 50 to 60 times a year. the environment agency, which is an adviser to the uk government, has also reached the conclusion that the system of collection and treatment is inadequate. there were some suggestions on how to solve this problem. one was an interceptor tunnel underneath the river thames, which would be about 20 miles long and would take about ten years to construct. the directive on urban waste water treatment is a results-based directive and so it is not my business to suggest what method the british government should choose to solve the problem. that is a matter for the government. but there is a problem and we have therefore started infringement proceedings against the united kingdom. in december we will see whether we should proceed with the reasoned opinion in order to persuade the united kingdom authorities to take the appropriate measures to carry out the infrastructure works necessary in order to treat the water in an acceptable way. my final point is that, if untreated sewage is discharged into the river, then the thames estuary, which is an important wetland, will be endangered.
member of the commission. madam president, mr papademos has asked several questions on this subject and i am always in a pleasant or unpleasant position to answer. the pstataliia plant has been fully operational since december 2004 and provides for the tertiary treatment of urban waste water discharged into the sensitive saronic basin. during the construction and upgrading of the plant, complaints were received by the commission concerning the management of the sludge produced, the sludge sludge. in october 2002, the commission initiated infringement proceedings against greece under article 226 of the treaty on the grounds that the greek authorities had not planned the disposal of the sludge in a manner compatible with community environmental legislation. the infringement procedure was successful, as in august 2003 the greek authorities finally decided to proceed with the construction of a drying plant on the island of pystaya, where the sludge will be converted into a solid with sufficient calorific value for subsequent incineration in suitable facilities. similar applications exist in other european countries. it should be noted that in december 2004 the commission decided to co-finance the project under the cohesion fund. the project should be completed by the end of 2007. it is hoped that this will finally solve the problem of sludge management. however, despite all these positive developments, there is still the problem of managing the sludge already stored on the island, as well as the sludge that will be produced on a daily basis until the proposed drying plant is operational. one solution is to transport large quantities of untreated sludge by ships and trucks to the landfill site in upper lyosia, on the mainland, outside athens. however, this solution has some environmental problems: possible water pollution due to the discharge of sludge into the marine environment, effects due to emissions from transporting waste 21 km through a densely populated area, also a risk of contamination due to the spill of sludge during transport. the commission notes that the waste water treatment plant in the upper liège area is located in the municipality of liège, in the province of hainaut, and that the waste water treatment plant is located in the municipality of liège. the commission therefore considers that the method of disposal of sludge referred to above is incompatible with community environmental legislation. the national authorities are responsible for the selection and implementation of an appropriate method for the temporary treatment of the sludge until the completion of the proposed drying plant. the commission is assessing the interim solution proposed by the greek authorities, a kind of landfill procedure in conjunction with the operation of the upper liosian landfill, and if necessary, will certainly not hesitate to initiate legal proceedings against greece, because this is required not only by community legislation but also by the need to protect the health of citizens and the environment. within the limits of its powers, the commission is taking and will continue to take all appropriate measures to ensure that member states comply with community legislation.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. does the commission know whether this commitment will be respected and what alternative is being proposed? in greece we hear various rumours without any responsible information. could you enlighten us ? have you considered and evaluated this famous, secret for the greeks, alternative after december? finally, the contractor for the draining of the pistalia sludge has not yet been selected, and this is two years after august 2003. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter.
member of the commission. to be honest, the minister has not told me what the solution is which he has promised by the end of the year. i suppose he must have something in mind to say that, and certainly a minister and a government are not bound in this way unless they have something concrete, namely a plan for how to dispose of the sludge in the period up to 2007 when the drying plant on pytalia island will be finished. the problem is to be found in the intervening period and what happens to the sludge which is currently being deposited in the upper liège wastep with a partial treatment - it is in a pilot process at the moment - of soil treatment where the material produced can be used either to cover the soil or to strengthen the soil in certain areas. of course, i repeat that the way the sludge is being transported through a densely populated area to the landfill is not right. that is why the government, as of december and beyond, as it has announced, will have an alternative which i believe will undoubtedly be much better from an environmental point of view.
the commission is an important institutional actor, both in the judicial procedure on environmental matters and in the sanctioning procedure on infringements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but i feel that there is a contradiction between being strict, being justifiably strict on violations of european environmental legislation and accepting acceptable waste management standards. the community bureaucracy, the commission bureaucracy, should set out in a strict and binding manner standards for waste management. it has vast know-how, it has experience and the methods should not be left to the discretion of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is compatible with the common market.
member of the commission. the commission negotiated the new fisheries partnership agreement with morocco, which was initialled on 28 july. the agreement follows the new partnership format which the community has developed for relations with third countries in the field of fisheries. this new approach includes, among others, a clear commitment from the commission side to promote the general principles of conservation and sustainable management of fishery resources. the new agreement paves the way for a permanent policy dialogue on fisheries between the european community and morocco and envisages initiatives and measures in support of responsible fisheries policy. the previous fisheries agreement with morocco, which covered the period 1995-99, did indeed provide for fishing possibilities for sponge fishing. in fact, it included the provision of five licences, which were never used. the new agreement establishes different categories of fishing possibilities for community fishing vessels, covering a total of 119 fishing vessels and a quota of 60 000 tonnes for industrial pelagic fisheries. the commission is well aware of the greek interest in sponge fishing, since, as part of the preparations for the negotiations on a new fisheries partnership agreement with morocco, greece pointed out on several occasions its interest in including sponge fishing in the new agreement. during the negotiations, the commission took account of the greek interest and presented to the moroccan side a request to include sponge fishing in the agreement. unfortunately, however, at this stage, sponge fishing cannot be covered in the agreement. the scientific evaluations available do not provide sufficient data with respect to sponge fishing to allow us to cover this type of fishing in the agreement. however, were a favourable scientific assessment of sponge stocks to become available in the future, the commission could propose to the moroccan side the inclusion of this type of fishing in the agreement. this inclusion could take the form of a decision of the joint committee that is provided for in article 10 of the agreement. having said that, i wish to emphasise that both the community and morocco have agreed to the possibility of carrying out certain experimental fisheries under article 5 of the protocol. in this context, experimental sponge fishing can be envisaged. experimental campaigns could facilitate the preparation of a scientific assessment of sponge resources in the moroccan fishing zone.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore ask you, as you have promised, to speed up your scientific research so that they can continue to fish for sponges, otherwise these family farms will close.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pittella, who has set out both the political vision of this budget and the technical one, which is immediate and operational. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. so far the commissioner has told us that agricultural expenditure will be improved or fixed on the basis of a letter of amendment. i think it is not a question of credibility, when we are discussing this issue of agricultural expenditure in a large department, to discuss it under the influence of a letter of amendment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco market is not affected by the introduction of the new tobacco regime. i would like to ask the commission why tobacco is not included in the new draft budget, as it is for all products, and why it is included in the subdivisions in category 1 ? the amendment already adopted by the committee on budgets on gender equality, concerning the strengthening of the daphne programme and the programmes on the subsidization and funding of women's organisations and in particular the european women's lobby, should be supported. (the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, on the community's policy on gender equality, i should like to begin by thanking mr pittella for accepting the amendments on the inclusion of equality in all the social policy chapters. i would also like to support the amendment already adopted from the budget to increase funding for the daphne ii programme, which aims to combat violence against children and women. i also think it is important to support the amendments of the committee on women's rights on increased funding for women's organisations and in particular the european women's lobby. this is because the action of these organisations is essential to promote gender equality in social, economic and political life and to achieve the lisbon objectives of better and stronger participation of women in the labour market.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate our rapporteur, giovanni pittella, on his excellent and, i would say, daring work. the 2006 budget is being discussed in the midst of a serious crisis of political orientation in the european union, reflected in the deadlock over the new financial perspective. the council of ministers has unfortunately once again shown great political weakness, and this time with the draft budget. it is now a serious matter of credibility when political priorities are set at european level and then insufficient funding is not secured. the finance ministers have once again been governed by accounting logic. we have seen it with the linear reduction of credits without political reasoning and criteria. unfortunately, the objective was one: to keep the total budget below 1.01% of the total. the council, dramatically trapped, sees the budget as the minimum compromise instrument and not as a means of development, redistribution, solidarity and implementation of european policies. the question then is a political one. the council, the european governments, are they receiving the messages from our peoples, from our citizens? do they realise that only by strengthening policies aimed at growth, employment, solidarity and cohesion - especially now after enlargement - will they be able to respond to the needs of european society? mr president, we in this parliament will vote on the amendments which strengthen the community budget and the policies which europe and its peoples need today. but that's not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to put forward a new plan for europe and to express a real political will to implement it.
mr president, i shall make three brief political remarks. firstly, the total cancellation of appropriations for a sector such as tobacco does not reflect the sensitivity which our parliament has traditionally shown towards the most vulnerable sections of the population. secondly, the budgetary constraints of the 1% limit do not allow us to achieve the political adequacy of the european ambitions we want. major community objectives such as competitiveness, economic cohesion, sustainable development, small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation - in fact all the lisbon objectives - have been the victims of horizontal budget cuts by the council. but at the same time, the prestige of europe's own leaders, who set the bar high and then unconditionally surrendered to the logic of austerity, was also cut. but in fact, in the logic of misery, not austerity. because austerity is when you cut out the redundant, when you cut out the waste, but when you cut out the investment in the future and the hope, that's not called austerity, it's called misery. thirdly, we have today only 13 million euros in our emergency reserve. when did you say that? when all around us nature is taking its revenge on man, when the frequency of earthquakes and deadly hurricanes has become the new global nightmare. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. instead of singing, we become oracles. the british presidency may finally agree with the french by the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the idea of europe will have failed, because, unfortunately, mr president, all the ambitious objectives of europe that we want will have been abandoned. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the agenda calls for voting time. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
in writing. the framework decision and (much more) the report of the committee on civil liberties propose the adoption of a common definition and sanctions for membership of a criminal organisation, with particular emphasis on the liability of legal persons if they are deemed to be involved in organised crime activities. however, the legal order of each member state has a sufficient and sufficiently rigorous legal arsenal to combat organized crime, which is a component of the capitalist system and is reproduced by it. as with the euro-monitoring act, these new measures, which abolish basic principles of criminal law, are adopted so that they can be used against the popular movement and democratic rights, to strengthen repressive mechanisms such as europol and eurojust. the recent plot against the irish labour party leader, sean garland, who is in danger of being extradited to the united states on charges of 'communist conspiracy to undermine the dollar', is living proof. the european parliament has already heard a provocative statement presenting the activities of a political organisation (sine fein) as organised crime. the communists were and are the enemies of the common criminal law crime, which is often linked to the mechanisms of the bourgeois state. we are not, however, accepting measures which may constitute a pretext for the criminalisation of political action.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is being done in a haphazard way, inviting countries to take the lead and close large quantities, giving incentives to the vaccine and drug industries to increase production. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. the aim is to eradicate the disease in farmed and wild birds, which are the source and reservoir of the pathogen. if these aspects are not included, the problem may recur in the future. the new eu directive also, instead of introducing stricter measures than those currently in force, is becoming too lax on some issues by allowing large poultry farms to derogate from the prohibitions on intra-community trade in poultry, even in areas affected by highly pathogenic influenza. the eu's policy, even on pandemics, exploits them for the profit of capital, so it is 'harmful' to the popular interests. the solution is for the eu to 'fight' capital and war until it is eliminated.
president-in-office of the council. in response to the earlier point, i cannot claim to be familiar with the specific question. i think if i had seen the question i would probably have had an answer. however, i can assure you that it is a matter the council will look into and endeavour to ensure a reply is forthcoming. in relation to this question, the so-called green line regulation was adopted by the council on 1 may 2004 with a view to facilitating the reunification of cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community through the facilitation of trade between the northern part of cyprus and the european union customs territory. as the honourable member rightly points out in his question, the council adopted amendments to the green line regulation in february 2005 to try to extend its scope and effectiveness, thus contributing further to the integration of the island. in its first report on the implementation of the green line regulation from 1 may 2004 to 30 april 2005, the commission concludes that the crossing of persons is running smoothly, but that the volume and value of goods crossing the line remains limited. while the report mentions the last amendments adopted in february 2005, the commission implementing decisions concerning the new goods covered were still under preparation. therefore, a full evaluation of the effectiveness of these amendments was not possible. the commission is due to report again on the green line regulation in 2006 and will be reporting on the implementation of these provisions. as for other measures, which are intended to facilitate the reunification of cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community, the council is aware of its responsibilities and efforts are continuing in that regard.
president-in-office of the council. i thank the honourable member for the points that he has raised. i can assure him i have listened carefully to them and noted them. with the permission of parliament, i shall pass them on directly to the commission so that they can inform the ongoing work that the commission is taking forward.
president-in-office of the council. the european union foreign ministers expressed a desire to end the isolation of the turkish cypriots at the april 2004 general affairs council. at the council’s request, the commission produced two draft regulations to deliver on this commitment. perhaps some of the frustration of which the honourable member speaks reflects the fact that it has not yet been possible to agree them. however, i can assure parliament that we will continue efforts to achieve agreement. clearly that will involve a number of member states. i can assure you that we are determined, if we can, to reach agreement to give expression to that decision of the general affairs council.
president-in-office of the council. i would respectfully remind the questioner that i am answering on behalf of the presidency today, rather than the british government. she is welcome to correspond with me separately, in a different forum, about the views of the british foreign office on the licensing of flights. that being said, i share the member’s frustration about the progress we had hoped to see in light of that earlier general affairs council commitment. however, as discussed at great length in our previous conversation about future financing, securing agreement often depends not on the will of one country, even one country holding the presidency, but on the capacity to secure the support of all countries. that is why, notwithstanding the genuine frustration we share with her, i can only assure her that we will continue our earnest endeavours to reach agreement. at this stage, however, i cannot give her any guarantee of the date on which that agreement will be reached.
president-in-office of the council. i entirely agree with the honourable member about the importance of serbia and montenegro moving towards the european union. that is why i am delighted that the council authorised the commission to open negotiations for stabilisation and association and the agreement with serbia and montenegro at the general affairs and external relations council on 3 october, of which i have already spoken. a formal ceremony to open negotiations was subsequently held in belgrade on 10 october, in the presence of the commissioner for enlargement, mr rehn. the decision to begin saa negotiations follows the positive feasibility study that serbia and montenegro received from the commission in april 2005. as one of our presidency objectives, the united kingdom sees this as a significant step for serbia and montenegro on the road to the european union. it also affirms the european union’s commitment to the thessaloniki agenda, which emphasises that the future of the western balkans lies in the european union. the council has judged that the pace and conclusion of negotiations will depend in particular on serbia and montenegro’s progress in developing its legislative framework and administrative capacity, the effective implementation of the constitutional charter and, of course, full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. the council and commission will jointly review serbia and montenegro’s performance in these areas before negotiations conclude.
mr president, i would like to ask the president-in-office, mr alexander, two brief questions. first, given that a referendum will be held in montenegro in 2006 on the possible withdrawal from the common state of serbia and montenegro, how will this referendum in montenegro affect the course of the negotiations on the stabilisation agreement? secondly, how will it affect the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement, the parallel negotiations to be launched on the final status of kosovo and, moreover, whether mr alexander believes that serbia's position on the kosovo issue will affect the course of the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement.
president-in-office of the council. i understand the strength of emotion around such issues, not least given the opportunity that i have had in recent months to travel, not just to serbia and montenegro, as i have just described, but also to kosovo, and hear for myself the very real challenges that continue to confront kosovo in particular and the region more generally. in that regard, in the course of the conversations that i had both in belgrade and in pristina, i emphasised the importance of awaiting ambassador eide’s report. in that sense, our hope would be that this would provide the basis on which a way forward could be found that would be to the satisfaction not only of one element of one community but that would serve the broader interests of peace and security in the region.
president-in-office of the council. the council has not assessed the impact of the structural and cohesion funds on the social integration, education, training and vocational development of young people living in areas facing demographic problems. the third cohesion report on economic and social policy, which reports on the progress made towards achieving economic and social cohesion through scf, the eib and other financial instruments, was adopted by the commission on 18 february 2004. part of the report focuses on the impact of community policies, competitiveness, employment and cohesion and the impact and added value of structural policies on such areas. the council is aware of the importance of the role of young farmers, particularly in the development of the rural environment and environmental conservation. in 2003, 24% of agricultural holdings were headed by a person under 45 years of age. generational renewal must be guaranteed in particular by means of special early-retirement measures combined with support for setting up. during the current programming period, i.e. from 2000 to 2006, approximately eur 2 billion from the community budget will have been allocated directly to young farmers to help them establish themselves. that amount is earmarked for the financing of investments and to help them set up in business through consultational services. looking ahead, the council has recently adopted a range of measures in the framework of the rural development regulation for 2007-2013, in particular aid of up to eur 55 000 per holding, aid for modernisation and the possibility of utilising the national reserve to help young farmers to establish themselves.
mr president, i thank the minister for his reply and i hope that the funding will be decided quickly so that by 2010 and 2013 the things he has mentioned will be a reality. i would also like to ask whether provision will be made for education and culture in these areas, which is based, of course, on the reproduction of human resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the people of afghanistan have for decades now been paying in blood and in great destruction for the continuing interventions of imperialism, because the country is of great geo-strategic importance. it is a provocation and a historical mockery that the american and european imperialists are hypocritically interested in the blow of terrorism, human rights and democracy in afghanistan, and that is because they are the ones who have supported politically, morally, economically and militarily the most blind and reactionary forces in order to stop the afghan people's path to progress and turn the country into an advanced military base. the war launched by the united states of america and nato, with the consent of the european union in 2001, was aimed at achieving military and political control of the country that is currently under occupation. so it has built one of the largest bases of the united states of america threatening neighboring countries. the country is a hostage of the us's cronies and the only development it has is the cultivation and trade of opium. the efforts of the occupying armies of the united states and the countries of the european union are aimed at stabilizing forces and governments in which they will have absolute control. the conditions for any prospect of a solution to the people's problems are that all the occupying forces should withdraw and that the people themselves, despite great difficulties, should seek ways of peace and independence.
madam president, the massive violations of democratic freedoms and human rights, the imprisonment of political opponents, the attacks on the uncontrolled media undermine the prospect of free and democratic elections in azerbaijan. we saw that in 2003, in the presidential election, we had serious irregularities. but there was no reaction from the international community. how ready is the european commission today to activate the suspension clause of the partnership and cooperation agreement for violations of democratic rights? the azerbaijani regime, in violation of international law, allows flights to the occupied part of the republic of cyprus. the european commission must be firm and clear in its message to the azeri people. the same decisive message of non-participation in the european neighbourhood policy must be sent ahead of the parliamentary elections. the release of all political prisoners, respect for the rule of law, the holding of free elections and the democratisation of institutions should be the basic conditions for the further development of the european union's relations with azerbaijan.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is an excellent report which you have presented to us in parliament. the title of the report may at first sight seem a bit surprising: 'the barcelona process: a new look', but if you let me interpret it this way: it is about strengthening and deepening the partnership between europe and other mediterranean countries. this is also clearly expressed in the motion for a resolution. the tenth anniversary of the barcelona process is not only an opportunity to celebrate the achievements of the past - because there are achievements, even if not all of them have been achieved. but above all we must look ahead, we must build on these successes and harness the full potential of this cooperation for the future with determination and political courage. i agree with mrs jäätteenmäki when she says that the barcelona process will of course be necessary in the future. i therefore consider it particularly important that there should be a major summit in barcelona at the end of november, where heads of state and government can speak for the first time on this subject. we have presented a separate communication in the commission at my instigation. i think it is particularly important because it tackles precisely those points which all of us here - and i have heard this from you too - consider to be particularly important. that's three main points, and then i would add culture extra. the three points are firstly the question of political reform, and above all the promotion of human rights, democracy and good governance. i'll get to that later. the second point is the educational sector. you are quite right, mrs jäätteenmäki: this is something we have to work on, something we have to get stronger at. i am very fond of this and i want to carry it out. the third area is economic development. this is where we have perhaps achieved the most success so far, but where we also need to go further. i would like to go into this in more detail. we must also continue to work in the cultural field, which means that the anna lindh foundation, the dialogue between civilizations and cultures, the possibility of extending this network are enormously important. of course we're ready here. i would like to begin by talking about political reforms, democracy and human rights. it is in these areas that we must not hold back, but try to support the reforms from outside. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is very important that the neighbourhood policy builds on the barcelona process and provides the right instruments for this. i have visited many of these mediterranean countries in recent weeks - including tunisia, jordan and lebanon - and i have seen how efficiently we can work with this instrument, even though there are different categories of approach to human rights in these countries. we have thought of something special for the promotion of human rights and we are planning to provide additional funding in the form of a democracy facility as early as next year, certainly as early as 2007. this means that countries which are particularly well on the way to reform should be given additional support of at least 10% of the funds already allocated. i hope that this will provide an incentive for these countries to go even further and that other countries that are lagging behind will follow. the political and security dimension of the partnership must therefore also be strengthened. the political framework must also be used more effectively. i therefore consider the meetings of parliament in connection with euromed to be particularly important. but also meetings of the council of ministers and meetings in the troika format - all of which can contribute to this further development. secondly, it is essential to recognize the importance of education in the social sphere. one third of the population of the mediterranean countries is under 15 years of age. that means we need to put a special focus on education. the undp human development report has shown that education and, above all, the issue of gender equality will contribute to development. that is why i have put a special emphasis on the elimination of illiteracy in the spirit of the united nations millennium declaration by 2015. i hope it works. i want there to be equal opportunities for girls and boys to be enrolled in all schools and also to receive equal education. i also want to see women in particular being given special support. we have planned our own scholarship programme, which will provide postgraduate scholarships for women in particular, so that there will be more development in this area. i also believe that the issue of migration is a central issue in the social sphere. i have received today, for example, the deputy foreign minister of morocco, mr taieb fassi-fihri, and we have of course discussed the issues currently being discussed in ceuta and melilla. we must not be indifferent to that. we must work together to find solutions here, on the one hand, solutions which concern the whole of the european union in relation to the whole of the mediterranean, but also the sub-saharan countries and africa. of course, we must also try to cut off the trafficking so that people do not fall victim to these terrible traffickers. but we must also create additional development opportunities for these countries so that such migration does not occur. on the one hand, refugees must be treated in accordance with the convention in full respect of human rights, and on the other hand, the illegal pressure on refugees must be stopped. this is certainly one of the important topics of this summit in barcelona. on the economic side, we have done a lot to ensure the free trade area by 2010 in the area of normal trade in goods; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the community. the south-south trade the so-called agadir process must be further developed here. but other issues are also important, such as transport, energy, the environment. there will be a conference on transport in marrakesh in december. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. the environment should be protected as far as possible. you are right, mrs jäätteemäki, to place particular emphasis on the question of cultural cooperation. we too want to pay greater attention to this cooperation in the future. of course, everyone knows that the barcelona process, on the one hand, offers the chance to bring israel and palestine to the table, but at the same time the middle east peace process is overshadowing the barcelona process. so it is essential that we also move forward here. i am thinking of mr wolfensohn, who has done a really good job here as the quartet's representative and whom we fully support.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs jäätteenmäki on her report and her willingness to cooperate, which resulted in a resolution with a full set of facts and political proposals. the 10th anniversary of the barcelona process is a great opportunity to take stock of our achievements and, above all, to redefine our political vision and strategy in the new context of the enlarged european union, the challenges of globalisation and the growing threat of terrorism. the barcelona process deserves our particular attention because it is the most complete expression of the european union's foreign policy, since it is a multilateral, comprehensive partnership and is expressed through an integrated strategy. it is absolutely linked to the vital interests of the european union, since it can contribute to peace and security in our region, but also affect peace and balance in the world. the report so far is not satisfactory. weaknesses and omissions were made on both sides. lack of foresight, political will, adequate funding, failure of partners to promote reforms and cooperation among themselves to create attractive markets and economies. what i find worrying is that this multilateral relationship and process has not contributed to solving the age-old problems, such as the israeli-palestinian and cyprus issues. it is also worrying that it has not brought the peoples together. the citizens have not become partners in this process, which is ignored on both sides, on both sides of the mediterranean. they have not realised the challenges that we face living together, our commonalities, or even the essence of our differences. i hope that the 2005 session, 10 years after the original, will clearly prioritise this need for civil society involvement in the barcelona process. we expect initiatives such as the euromed platform mentioned by mrs jäätteenmäki, as well as other partnerships at all levels, such as local government, regions and universities, to be encouraged. the mobility of citizens in all social and professional groups must be encouraged. the role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly is very important, it is already beginning to emerge, and we hope that it will contribute to this mutual understanding and to the forging of a common conscience. we are waiting for a real dialogue of cultures, in the full sense of the word, which will not be merely a coexistence for the exchange of business cards, but where we will engage in dialogue with a willingness to discover our differences and find our common ground. the dialogue between cultures must be the full breadth and depth of the word; cultural norms, interpretation of history, lifestyle and the position of women. and here, commissioner, i am glad that you have referred to this in particular, but i would like to point out that there is a lot of work in the committee on women's rights, not only the opinion attached to the report, but also a report drawn up in 2002 which formed the basis for the first regional programme for women in the mediterranean that we have today. what we are asking for is more than education and the labour market. we are asking for a real look at the situation of women, and from the european commission, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the results of your policy to date, and the inclusion of the gender dimension in all three pillars of the barcelona process.
madam president, the 10th anniversary of the barcelona declaration demands a frank and calm assessment of the policies and actions of a truly historic initiative such as euro-mediterranean cooperation. in 1995 we set ambitious targets because the regional environment was much more favourable. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is a political union of the peoples of europe. the impasse in the middle east and palestinian peace process has had a decisive and negative impact on euro-mediterranean cooperation and continues to have such an impact. it was and is the basic condition for achieving the objectives. the report is not very encouraging. but i would like to make two main points. the question is how barcelona's strategy will progress in the coming years. i believe that it is particularly difficult to coexist the european neighbourhood policy project with the euro-mediterranean process when there is overlapping of objectives and policies. it is difficult for the european union to convince our mediterranean partners of the sincerity of its intentions without considerable financial resources and with a limited community budget. in the euro-mediterranean cooperation there has been an institutional inflation with the continuous creation of new institutions and bodies. how will they function without adequate funding? how will serious initiatives, such as those of the spanish prime minister, mr tapatero, on the alliance of cultures and on dialogue between religions be implemented? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what is needed is a realistic road map and realistic priorities for the implementation of the objectives of euro-mediterranean cooperation.
ombudsman. mr president, i wish to thank you for this opportunity to address parliament and to present the annual report for 2004, my first full year in office. the year 2004 was hugely significant for the european union: a year of historic enlargement, european elections, a new commission and intense debate about the constitution. these events and the popular attention they attracted had important consequences for the ombudsman, as i will explain in a minute. the annual report records our progress in handling complaints, in promoting good administration and in making the ombudsman’s work better known to citizens. in total, 3 726 complaints were received, a 53 % increase compared with the previous year. the rise in complaints does not result from worsening administrative behaviour by the institutions; rather, it reflects citizens’ increased general awareness of matters european and growing knowledge about their rights and about how to exercise those rights. as i have mentioned, 2004 was a year in which european subjects figured prominently in headlines throughout the union. i also made intensive efforts to inform citizens about their right to complain to the european ombudsman and to spread the word about the positive results that have been achieved. all in all, i gave over 30 public lectures and presentations and held over 150 meetings with ombudsmen, public officials and other interlocutors in the member states and candidate countries. during 2004, i was able to help almost 70 % of the people who complained to me. the help took one of three forms: opening an inquiry, transferring the case to a competent body or advising on where to turn for a prompt and effective solution to the problem. i closed 251 inquires during the year. in 45 % of the cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration. such a finding is not always negative for the complainant, who at least has the benefit of a full explanation from the institutional body concerned of its actions. furthermore, even when there is no maladministration, i may identify an opportunity for the institutional body to improve the quality of its administration in the future. if so, i point this out in a further remark in the closing decision. whenever there is maladministration, i try, if possible, to achieve a positive-sum outcome that satisfies both the complainant and the institution. in 28 % of cases, my inquiries resulted either in the institution concerned settling the case to the satisfaction of the complainant or in a friendly solution. when a friendly solution is not possible, i close the case with a critical remark or make a draft recommendation. an example of a draft recommendation accepted in 2004 was a case in which the commission granted ex gratia compensation to a small company that had been given insufficient time to prepare a proposal for a research and development contract. if a community institutional body fails to respond satisfactorily to a draft recommendation, the ombudsman’s ultimate weapon is a special report to the european parliament. only one special report was made in 2004, following the commission’s refusal to reconsider its rules on the grading of press officers in its delegations. i made the draft recommendation in this case because the commission failed to provide a coherent and convincing explanation of the variations in its current practice, despite having every opportunity to do so during my inquiry. in my view, it is important that the european institutions should be willing to think again, rather than give the appearance of acting in an arbitrary way. i am grateful for parliament’s support in this important issue of principle, as expressed in paragraph 11 of mr mavrommatis’s report. two own-initiative inquiries addressing systemic issues were closed during the year with positive results. the commission accepted the need to improve the administration of the european schools and gave a commitment to cooperate with parents. i encouraged the commission to seek to ensure that the schools themselves acknowledge the need to empower parents and to win their trust. the commission also accepted and implemented a draft recommendation to introduce an internal complaints procedure for seconded national experts. i would now like to say a few words about my priorities for the future. the first priority is to promote a citizen-centred approach by the eu institutions and bodies in all their activities. to this end, i will seek every opportunity systematically to reach out to the institutions to encourage best practice and promote friendly solutions. the active cooperation of the institutions and bodies is essential to the success of the ombudsman’s work for citizens. the annual report contains many examples of the institutions taking prompt action to settle cases brought to their attention and responding positively to my proposals and recommendations. during visits to the institutions and bodies, i underlined the value of reacting promptly and constructively to complaints. the ultimate goal for us all must be to ensure the best possible service for the citizen. i will continue to push for an end to the present confusing situation in which different institutions and bodies apply different codes of good administration. parliament has already approved, on 6 september 2001, the european code of good administrative behaviour. that text contains the rules and principles that should apply to all the union institutions and bodies. the code has received wide recognition internationally, in the member states and candidate states, in the council of europe and elsewhere in the world. it is, by all accounts, a european success story of which both parliament and the ombudsman can be justly proud. i was encouraged by the positive reaction of the president of the commission on this point when i met the college of commissioners in may this year. with the cooperation of the commission, i believe that it would be possible for a common code to be adopted in 2006. i also intend to revisit the question of the ombudsman’s statute. my principal objective here is to ensure that citizens can have full confidence in the ombudsman’s power to find the truth when hearing witnesses or inspecting documents. i would also like to cooperate with parliament to ensure that citizens’ complaints about violations of the fundamental rights mentioned in the charter can be brought before the court of justice if an important issue of principle cannot be resolved in any other way. parliament already has full rights as an institution to initiate cases before the court. in that context, it could be useful for the ombudsman to have the power to intervene in such cases; a power, i note, that has already been given to the european data protection supervisor, with whom i had a very friendly and productive meeting last week. a third priority is to deepen my close cooperation with ombudsmen in the member states through the european network of ombudsmen. the network makes it possible to transfer cases rapidly, share best practice and promote a free flow of information about european law and its implementation at the national, regional and local levels. the aim is to promote good administration throughout the union so that citizens can enjoy their rights under european law. i am delighted that, following a valuable proposal from the de rossa report last year, the committee on petitions participates in the network as a full member and was represented at the meeting of national ombudsmen, which took place in the hague in september. i would like to thank the members of the committee on petitions and, in particular, this year’s rapporteur, mr mavrommatis, for their support and constructive proposals as set out in parliament’s report. i have already mentioned today many of the matters on which the report contains wise advice, at least to the ombudsman. as regards other points, i have already undertaken to ask to appear before the committee on petitions whenever i deem it advisable and necessary to submit a special report to this house following the rejection of a friendly solution or draft recommendation. earlier this month, i presented the committee with two special reports. the first was on the financial treatment of commission staff whose children cannot attend the european schools because of their degree of disability. the second report found that the council has given no valid reason for continuing to legislate behind closed doors. the council could easily amend its rules of procedure to provide for open legislative meetings. i am also committed to improving information to citizens about the services provided by members of the european network of ombudsmen. i intend to introduce an interactive guide on our website to help complainants find the appropriate ombudsman to deal with, be it at the european, national or regional level. a few weeks ago, we celebrated the first ten years of the european ombudsman. to mark the occasion we published a volume tracing the history of the institution. we have also held a number of successful commemorative events, including one for the european parliament on 27 september this year. further events will take place in the next few weeks in both strasbourg and brussels. i believe that the relationships of goodwill, trust and understanding that have been built up over the last decade are a precious resource for improving the quality of public administration in europe to the benefit of citizens. the european parliament and its committee on petitions constitute vital partners for the european ombudsman in this regard.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank mr diamantoure for the cooperation we have had throughout the preparation and drafting of this report. i would also like to thank the committee on petitions, mr libicki, all my colleagues here today and sir robert atkins and all those who have helped with this report. the ombudsman is an independent institution and a monitoring mechanism of the european union's administration. the report presented by mr diamantouros at the committee on petitions' meeting in strasbourg is a key source for the european parliament's annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman. it is a fact that complaints increased in 2004 by 53% compared to the previous year. although it was estimated that enlargement would be the main cause of the increase in complaints to the european ombudsman, only 51% of the increase came from the 10 new member states. however, the increase in complaints does not necessarily mean that there are more instances of maladministration by the eu institutions, but that citizens are more aware of their rights. this is mainly due to the ombudsman's intense activity. during 2004, numerous visits to member states and third countries, public lectures, press conferences and other meetings helped to inform citizens about its role and about the right of citizens to complain. however, despite mr diamantoure's public information work, there is still confusion about the european ombudsman's areas of competence. in 2004, 74.8% of the complaints received by the european ombudsman were outside his remit. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 2004, 251 investigations were closed, of which 4 were self-employed. 12 amicable settlements were proposed, 36 criticisms were made, one of which was to parliament for not taking sufficient steps to promote substantial compliance with the smoking rules on its premises. 17 draft recommendations were also drawn up and 1 special report submitted. an important factor in the ombudsman's effectiveness is his cooperation with the institutions of the european union and the european parliament in general. as an example, i would mention mr diamantou's regular briefings and meetings with the committee on petitions and its bureau, as well as his meeting on 25 may 2005 with the college of commissioners. the conclusions of this meeting highlight the genuine commonality of interests between the commission and the european ombudsman in ensuring that both the corrective and the intervention aspects of the ombudsman's work are carried out successfully. it is a fact that most of the complaints relate to cases of mismanagement. according to the ombudsman's 1997 annual report, maladministration occurs when a public authority fails to act in accordance with the rule or principle by which it is bound. 22% of the cases of maladministration relate to lack of transparency and refusal to provide information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, 9% relates to judicial errors, 7% to abuse of power or unfairness, 6% to cases of negligence and 5% to legal error. in the light of these elements, the ombudsman should therefore define the concept of maladministration from the point of view both of the institutions and bodies he deals with and of the cases complained of. mr president, mrs wallstöm, i would also like to point out, as i have already said in my report, that it would be essential for the ombudsman to be present in the committee on petitions of the european parliament in order to discuss any form of refusal on the part of the institution or body seeking a friendly settlement. the ombudsman's annual report shall, inter alia, reflect the efforts made by the ombudsman to expand and further strengthen the network of national and regional ombudsmen by developing the exchange of information and best practices. the participation of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in this network would facilitate practical cooperation between the european institutions and national and regional ombudsmen and would allow for an increase in its regular contacts with the committees of petition of the national parliaments and with the ombudsmen of the member states. of particular interest is the fact that 69% of the complaints are against the commission. the european commission, for its part, should deal with complaints of infringements within a reasonable time, so as to ensure that citizens' complaints are dealt with promptly and effectively. finally, the de rossa report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2003 was a reference point for my report. a comparative study of the ombudsman's reports for 2003 and 2004 has produced a positive result and directs us to focus on the points of particular interest to the committee on petitions. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. in conclusion, i would like to thank all of you and the secretariat of the committee on petitions, of course, and all the colleagues who have helped with their amendments to draft this report.
in writing. the kke is categorically opposed to the anti-people draft eu budget for 2006. the adoption of the resolution by epp mps, social democrats and others, signals the intensification of the anti-people attack by eu and bourgeois governments on the social partners, at the expense of the working class and the popular strata, to increase the profits of eu capital. it is a "precursor" to the anti-people reactionary action plan being discussed at the informal summit in england, for the deepening of capitalist restructuring within the framework of the lisbon strategy, drastic cuts in social benefits, in agricultural production, in small and medium-sized enterprises, and transfer of resources to strengthen the military repressive mechanisms. the tobacco farmers are targeted with the €1 billion cut. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of tobacco in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include tobacco products from third countries. the eu's decisions on the unpopular revision of the cap and the limited support for agriculture until 2013 are also being trampled on. while unemployment and poverty are growing exponentially, the needs for public health, education, etc. are enormous, funds are being transferred to communication policy in order to mask the imperialist and anti-people character of the eu. the struggle of the labour movement against the budget needs to encompass the whole of the anti-people policy of the eu.
in writing. the institution of the european ombudsman was decided at the maastricht summit and has been in operation for 10 years. it is intended to investigate complaints concerning maladministration by the eu institutions and by governments in the member states. it is clear that this institution serves the needs of the eu's appearance in the eyes of the citizens, to shift the reactions from the anti-people policy it implements to painless channels, that is to say whether it is implemented with good or bad management, the privatization of everything, the removal of wage and social rights of workers, the policing and repression of trade union and political action, etc. we do not underestimate the suffering of workers from cases of maladministration, nor the value of facilitating their relations with the 'bureaucracy of brussels' or governments in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to pave the way for the solution of the acute problems of the workers, the struggle of the working people's movement as a whole against the anti-people policy of the eu needs to be intensified.
mr president, i should like to refer briefly to the recent youth uprisings in the french suburbs, a subject which i believe concerns every european country. we have seen children of 10 to 20 years old turn blindly against their fellow citizens, but also against the material symbols of a society that we believe is organized and prosperous. is it right to regard these children as outcasts of our societies and to hand them over to any kind of repression? the children are the future of our societies, but one wonders how these young people are being left behind and, in effect, how confusion is being created as to what europe's future should be. it is the duty of all of us to give everyone a chance to live with dignity. we must ensure, especially for children, access to education and employment, and to living in a humane environment where our states do not intervene to punish, but to help develop. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, one of the darkest spots in europe is the issue of paedophilia. it's spread all over europe. it's filthy what's happening through the internet. there's a loophole, at least in my country, and the material can and does circulate freely on the internet from person to person. a few days ago twenty people were arrested for trafficking very hard pedophile material: two, four, five, six-year-olds, animal butchery and such vile things, and none of them 'came out.' they wouldn't let the tv broadcast their names. we protect them under the umbrella of individual rights. but what individual rights, mr president, can a man have who molests a child of three, four and five years old? when a thief is caught, all his details are immediately made public. the pedophile is arrested and protected by the principle of protecting individual rights. we can't close our eyes: we have seen it here in belgium, we are seeing it now in greece. let's protect these kids from the pedophiles.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, the concept of globalisation is not new, it has not been introduced recently. it started in rome as ecumenism, in the last century the communists tried to impose it as internationalism, and today globalization is the answer of capitalism. i would like to ask any person here in europe - the merchant in cologne, the craftsman in marseille, the farmer in greece: are they happy with the results of globalization? the only happy people are the chinese, with 12% growth. where do we win? what 's going on in europe ? that countries with strong economies, like germany, are now in deficit in their economies? what do we get ? that we're raising unemployment and we can't even fix it? where we win: that all the products are from china? is it a lie that the products are from china? is it a lie that we're trying to invent, now in retrospect, a way to keep all of china from coming here? this is the reality. third countries took our factories and we took the inhabitants. so we have these events in france. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but these people have no jobs because the factory where they worked has left for north africa or the balkans. so globalisation is not good for us europeans. and how smart we are! we took our currency and we appreciated it against the dollar by 50%. so how can we do any work with the euro? how will we be able to cope with globalization? how are we going to secure a sustainable pension? do you know what the average pension is in my country, greece? that's the daily allowance of a member of parliament. the 270 euros we get here a day, the greek farmer doesn't get it a month. can we ensure a european pension that is sustainable? can we guarantee jobs for all europeans? can we secure the cotton that is in greek warehouses, and europe does not take it to buy cotton from third countries? can we secure the oil from spain that europe doesn't get but gets from tunisia? this is the reality. what globalization are we talking about? what are the results? i repeat, what is europe's advantage? what have we done for the european citizen? so we played the american game to make the capital pay. the only happy ones are carrefour and lidl. how could you? taking advantage of the world. i went here to strasbourg to lidl and bought some products. i bought the same products in my country for three times the price. the same product, same name, same quantity. how will the small trader then cope? how will the craftsman stand it? so we're headed for a contraction of the economy. a problem that we'll find ourselves facing. and, look, i don't know if this reckless expansion of europe will be its downfall, but its biggest problem will be the economy. globalisation will seriously damage the future of europe. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, the process of so-called globalisation is a demonstration of the barbarity of capitalist development and the imperialist imposition of capital's choices, with painful consequences for the working class, the popular strata and the environment. globalisation is a central ideology of bourgeois and petty-bourgeois opportunist ideological currents with different shades but also a common pursuit to try to conceal its capitalist and class character. the european commission's communication on the social dimension of globalisation analyses the phenomena from the perspective of the interests of capital and attempts to obscure the real causes of contemporary problems. at the same time, the so-called need to accept and reform the imperialist associations is being proposed as a strategy for the new economic and social reality that is being formed, at regional and international level. the european union's response to the crisis has been capitalist restructuring, with the main feature being the promotion of competitiveness. the lisbon strategy and the success of its updated formulation are the key parameters of the commission's choices and proposals for the european union's contribution to the process of globalisation. the evaluation of all the evidence shows that the term "globalization" is a misnomer. it covers the nature and the crisis of the system. the era in which we live is not the era of globalization but the era of imperialism. the working class and workers in general reject the reactionary process and the course of the development of so-called globalization and fight for radical changes and popular prosperity.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the commission is to be congratulated for its contribution to the establishment and work of the reporting committee of the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation and for its willingness to contribute effectively to the monitoring of its work. the commission communication on the world commission report covers a wide range of issues concerning the internal and external policies of the european union when it operates at global level. the rapporteur, mr brejc, of the committee on employment, is to be commended for having made a basic report in his comments on this communication, which has been transformed into an extensive list of wishes and recommendations in order to highlight the main objective of the two preceding texts. the aim, of course, is to distribute the benefits of globalization more fairly among the world's people and to better anticipate the costs often associated with sudden global changes. this broad catalogue of both the commission's communication and its report must be incorporated into the daily legislative and executive work of the member states. it has been rightly stressed that education in developing countries across the spectrum is a key instrument for creating quality jobs that will ensure a better life for the people of the countries in which they were born. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let us help, as european institutions, to create the instruments to oversee the multilateral system of the world economy and to deal with the coherence and consistency between global economic, social and environmental policies. in this context, we also welcome the global action of social organizations to promote good social governance, particularly with regard to the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, which the commission supports. the world space has a familiar name in greek. it's called "ecumenical", a word that gave many languages the term ecology, care for the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company, which will be able to compete with the european union in the field of asbestos. we have five years in the european union to achieve the lisbon strategy, to make europe the leading power in the knowledge economy with respect for the environment by promoting a social model that we can propose to the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must close the gap between it and its competitors. the commission's proposal for a single deadline is designed to achieve this. however, i do see the following problems: the first is the crossborder dimension, which the commissioner has also stressed. given that the digital transmission of our neighbouring countries affects european digital integration because of the problems of frequency coordination, i ask: what measures does the commission intend to take and what agreements does it intend to conclude to help neighbouring countries to move towards digital broadcasting? the commission is also considering whether the accession negotiations with the applicant countries will take into account the intention of those countries to take the necessary measures, agreements and commitments. the second dimension is the geographical dimension. the choice of technology, the cost of installation and operation and the timetable for implementation also depend to a large extent on the geographical configuration of a country. for example, the coverage of mountainous or island areas is more difficult than the coverage of lowland areas. does the commission therefore consider that there is a need to promote digital cohesion actions to bridge the so-called digital divide? and finally, i ask: is it justified to favour certain technologies, such as set-top boxes, over other providers? does that not contradict the principle of technological neutrality?
mr president, commissioner, digital television offers a number of benefits to the viewer: improved image quality, better sound, better image retrieval via portable and mobile devices, interactive services. digital television also improves access for people with disabilities, such as those with hearing and vision impairments, by providing ancillary services such as improved subtitling, audio commentary and symbol commentary. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the broadcasters are able to receive the full amount of the programme they need to broadcast on the digital platform. in addition, the switchover to digital television and the subsequent abolition of analogue television also result in the liberalisation of analogue frequencies which can now be used for new innovative services. the liberalisation of frequencies must be accompanied by policies aimed at increasing pluralism and in particular cultural diversity in the broadcasting of european and independent producers. the aim must be to produce television programmes which highlight the educational, cultural and informative mission of television in a qualitative way.
mr. president, the cia maintains a network of secret prisons around the world. america has also admitted to using a policy of abductions, so-called "renditions", in order to take people, even european citizens, and take them for interrogation to places we don't know. the us president today threatens to veto a bill passed by the us senate to enforce the obvious - at least a few years ago - that international law should apply to american detainees around the world. all this in 2005, from a great country, from a country with a huge democratic tradition, from a country that insists every year on releasing a human rights report, condemning other states on earth for violating them. mr president, the policy of the united states affects us all, whether these centres are on european soil or not. the argument of the terrorists for the double standards of european societies is something they pray to have in order to be able to recruit new terrorists, in order to be able to undermine our own policy. are we going to let them? unthinkable questions, before the unveiling of the us prisons, must be asked. one of them: are there any member states of the european union or candidate countries which currently maintain prisons of this kind? secondly, are there any member states of the european union or candidate countries which are currently sending their own prisoners to the prisons in the united states? who supposedly wash their hands, but use this network for their own prisoners? it must be answered. thirdly, has the united states sent to these prisons people kidnapped from europe? mr president, in the fight against terrorism, the end does not justify the means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and let's not allow any other country to do the same.
mr president, some time ago, intelligence led to the revelation of the great barbarity of torture in the abu ghraib prison in iraq and guantanamo in cuba. today, the press reports, although not yet confirmed, have not been denied by the us authorities. mr president, i fear that in the name of fighting international terrorism, we are facing a new middle ages. we are facing an immediate threat to democratic civilization in europe and, even more so, european governments and european institutions cannot remain indifferent. i would like to draw particular attention to the immediate reaction of the legal affairs committee of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. unfortunately, we have not seen this direct reaction from the council of europe from the european commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. what the european commission, mr barroso himself, mr frattini and mrs ferrero-waldner, as responsible for transatlantic relations, must undertake is an investigation into all sides, to find out where, by whom, how and when these black sites were set up. the european union has a political and moral obligation to cooperate with the american congress. we are already aware of the initiatives of senators john mackein and john kerry in this direction. the same initiatives must be taken by the european parliament. mr president, the promotion of transatlantic relations is inextricably linked to respect for democratic values and the principles of international law. this is a message that must be sent with clarity to the american leadership.
mr president, commissioner, first of all, the framework for the functioning and the purpose of the occupational pension institutions (ops) should be clarified. they are financial market institutions and cannot be associated with or implied to gradually acquire such a coverage as to replace social security systems even partially. social security schemes must continue to guarantee the general cover of employees while they are public, i.e. in the event of the failure of the insurance agency to pay pension benefits and obligations, the state must cover its financial obligations. on the other hand, if the institutions for occupational retirement provision (iesp) are unable to meet their obligations, the state has no financial and guarantee intervention. i am quite clear that these institutions are useful as financial institutions which guarantee supplementary pensions, provided that they are decided on in the context of collective agreements. it should of course be stressed that they provide pension income only in the case of employees creating a degree of discrimination in relation to those who do not have a stable job or are part-time. it should also be noted that these financial institutions, the foundations, are only able to carry out crossborder cooperation in the countries of the present euro area. in view of these features and the development of the implementation of the legislation in the member states, it is appropriate to promote the directive in all member states, but to make it more flexible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states, and that the directive is not simply a matter of transposing the directive into national law, but that it is accepted by the social partners, employers and employees. in this respect, the use of averages to determine the extent to which the institutions cover the workforce or the assets of these institutions and their accumulated reserves as a percentage of gdp or per insured person does not seem to be relevant. on the other hand, the emphasis on the factors which have contributed to the development of the institution seems to be particularly important in certain individual countries, where the confidence of the workforce reaches an average of 45%. those factors contributing to the very heterogeneous application of this directive in the various member states should be eliminated.
the commission's work programme, mr president, reflects its honest efforts to serve the imperialist interests of the european union and the choices of capital in the best possible way. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission is trying to adapt its legislative programme for 2006 to the new situation, not by changing policy direction but by taking into account its commitments for its five-year term and the choices of the monopolies. the main thrust of its policy is communication policy. the use of force, the buying of consciences and class collaboration become the means for the capture of the popular masses and the acceptance of the most reactionary anti-people measures. further liberalisation of markets. targeting electricity and natural gas. completion of the internal market in services, postal services, etc., privatisation of public utilities, new shipping policy measures, promotion of new tax measures to the detriment of workers. a single strategy to promote the anti-people lisbon objectives on the basis of national action programmes and to promote anti-working class projects for youth, women and workers in general. the commission's programme is in complete contradiction with the demands and aims of the workers and that is why their struggles over the next period will escalate for the right to work, the improvement of living standards, the defence of popular freedoms, peace and equal relations.
mr president, the history of reach is a history of continuous weakening of the original commission proposal and each time, mr de maij-weggen, the commission comes along and celebrates a different proposal than the original one it had put forward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. today, under pressure from the chemical industry lobby - and no one here can pretend not to know this - and from certain member states, germany in the lead, we are faced with a bad compromise by the people's party, the socialists and the liberals, a compromise which, with a gun to mr sacconi's head, weakens the proposal of the committee on the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european left and the greens have no intention of voting for this bad agreement.
mr president, commissioner, the science of chemistry and the chemical compounds produced by this science have helped people in their lives to solve problems, that is a fact, as is the fact that today we have thousands of compounds and products on the market and many of these compounds are dangerous and can cause damage to both the environment and health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly enforced. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i am referring to the issues of environmental protection and public health, but also to the need to adapt to new data generated by the introduction of not only quantitative but also qualitative criteria, such as the hazard of chemical compounds. this regulation should regulate matters relating to the protection of the environment and public health and at the same time allow the european chemical industry to adapt to the planned transition phase. in other words, with the regulation we can have a concrete example of the practical application of the model of sustainable development, which is based on the harmonious combination of its three pillars, which are, i remind you, the protection of the environment and public health, economic growth, social cohesion and the increase in employment. i would like to stress that we can have this model of application, expressing the hope that the european chemical industry will respond in the way it knows best - namely innovation - so that it will not only adapt but also strengthen both its competitiveness and its jobs. innovation, i.e. the synthesis of new compounds that are environmentally and health-friendly, is the key to achieving a harmonious synchronisation of the three pillars of sustainable development. in conclusion, i must stress that i have confidence and i am investing in the co-decision process to synthesise all aspects of this complex issue so that we achieve the best in this regulation.
mr president, the benefits for public health, the environment, the production of safer and more human-friendly products, the benefits of developing new innovative products, the protection of the european chemical industry against competitors from third countries, improved transparency, increased consumer confidence in the industry, the benefits for small and mediumsized enterprises which are mainly users rather than producers of chemicals, the protection of the health of workers in the chemical industry, the reduction of accidents, a predictable regulatory and regulatory system, reasonable implementation costs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. the citizen is entitled to reach, which is probably tomorrow's must and we can redefine it left-leaning and green, but today we need reach. i thank the commissioners and the greek commissioner for their support on this important matter.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, this has been an excellent debate, with honourable members speaking with knowledge, experience and passion. sixty-one separate members of the european parliament have spoken and i have listened with care on behalf of the council to all of them. it is vitally important that the burdens which reach imposes on industry are as low as possible. this is an industry that employs many hundreds of thousands of our european citizens, but it is important that the burdens are consistent with meeting our shared goals of protecting human health and the environment, and we believe that the emerging views of parliament, the council and commission do this. a focus of many speakers has been the needs of small firms in the chemical and related industries. the council shares that concern, and in its compromise the presidency has attempted to put forward a range of measures to help them. these include ‘one substance, one registration’, the role of the agency in assisting small firms and a number of measures to help them capitalise on their innovation. many members have mentioned the word ‘balance’ this afternoon. reach is in many ways a balancing act and we believe the emerging consensus between our three institutions represents the only achievable balance on this delicate, complex and very important dossier. i very much welcome and share the widespread support expressed here today for the need to avoid unnecessary animal testing. clearly, for now, non-animal alternatives do not exist for all the tests we need, so the role of ‘one substance, one registration’ to avoid duplicate testing is key. we also want the scope to amend the list of test methods approved as rapidly as possible as non-animal alternatives come forward. in its amended form, reach will target the most hazardous substances; pbts, vps and vbs will be registered early. they, cmrs and other substances of very high concern, such as endocrine disrupters, will be subject to a rigorous authorisation process, including substitution. a key principle of the reach approach is to lay the responsibility for demonstrating the safety of chemicals firmly upon the chemical industry. the reversal of the burden of proof will mark a positive and dramatic improvement on the current regime and is something that member states and the council have seen as vitally important. reach is a significant improvement on the status quo. it will give us the information we need to address substances of concern. it will promote innovation in the industry itself through reducing the current existing burdens on companies wishing to introduce new and greener chemicals and through promoting substitution of older, more polluting substances. europe has been debating reach since 1998. we have come a long way in understanding both the substances and the concerns of all stakeholders. i argue that now is the time to seize this once-in-a-lifetime chance to agree on what is before us and overcome the problems of sound chemicals management. the current regime for chemicals is flawed, bureaucratic and slow and, in too many circumstances, it is frankly ineffective. more than 40 laws, over 100 000 substances and almost 40 years after the eu first started to address chemicals, we still have not got there. chemicals pose a huge challenge and a huge opportunity to modern society and we need to take this on now. reach, as it is emerging in parliament, the council and the commission, is the best tool we have to do this, hence its importance to us all. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission also shares the view that this was an important and convincing debate. i would like to say again that our concern was to find a solution or to help find a solution. it is not possible to satisfy all sides on such a subject. there can be no complete compromise between those who fear for their jobs and their future and those who fear for the health of their children. it is not possible to find a perfect compromise, and it is the essence of compromise that you have to meet each other. i say this to the two speakers who have taken the controversial view in this debate. i think it would be wrong to adopt a position which, without any regard for the competitiveness and future prospects of one of europe's most important industries, sets rules which do not exist anywhere else in the world. it would also be wrong to fail to do what is possible to achieve the best for the health and environment of our citizens. the commission once again underlines its conviction that the compromise presented here is balanced, and i would like to expressly reiterate my opposition to the allegation that this proposal dilutes the objective of the commission's original proposal. i think you should leave it to the commission to decide how it will assess the changes to its own proposal. we are discussing a commission proposal and the commission does not consider that the amendments proposed here weaken or water down its proposal, but rather that they actually reinforce the objective itself. i would point out that the requirements are even more stringent in the area where most substances are found, namely in the low-volume area from 1 to 100 tonnes. it is also true that in practice instruments have now been found which will enable small and mediumsized enterprises, above all, to deal with this very demanding body of legislation. it has been pointed out on several occasions that the chemical industry in europe is a medium-sized industry. i would also like to say this to those who have said to representatives of other parties that the compromise in question or the solution that is in sight reflects the interests of the large chemical industry in europe. this is nonsense, because the chemical industry in europe is not characterized by large companies. you will be surprised to know that the average size of a chemical plant in europe is 74 employees. in other words, we are dealing with a very small and medium-sized structure in which we have to consider very carefully what requirements we impose on the companies and what we do not. it is a body of law with which no one in the world has any experience, and we should also be aware today that only actual practice will show us whether our assumptions were completely correct or not. and we should be open to improvements, not only in the course of the discussions, but also in the course of the practical application that follows. i can assure you that, as far as the commission is concerned, we will take full responsibility - particularly in relation to the agency, which will have to do a lot of the work - and do what is necessary to make the agency as efficient and as effective as possible. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief. first of all, i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate tonight, which was very important, very interesting and which will contribute to the adoption of the proposal we are discussing for the benefit of the health of european citizens and the environment. i would like to congratulate again the rapporteur, mr sacconi, mrs ek, mr nassauer, on the really great efforts they have made to reach this compromise which concerns one of the most important issues of reach. the commission fully supports this compromise and i am sure that it will be equally strongly supported in the vote on thursday. there are, of course, certain other issues, such as the issue of licensing and substitution of care by the chemicals agency, on which i am sure parliament will be just as clear. the commission welcomes the convergence developing between parliament and the presidency and will work to facilitate an agreement on reach so that reach becomes law as soon as possible. the commission also supports the rapporteur's amendments concerning the time limitation of authorizations, but on the condition that the duration is fixed by the agency on a case-by-case basis. the rapporteur is looking for a more concrete and operational solution on substances in products, similar to the one sought by the uk presidency, which the commission could accept. thank you very much for your attention and for participating in this important debate.
i'm the deputy editor. mr president, within the european framework there are a considerable number of decentralized or quasi-autonomous functional bodies, which are identified under the heading 'regulatory bodies'. this situation suggests a concept of multilevel governance. the conceptual approach and the functional inquiry of regulatory authorities in the european union is characterized by pluralism. the challenge is therefore to establish clear and, as far as possible, uniform conditions for the establishment, operation and supervision of this peculiar, sui generis form of european governance in order to make the regulatory bodies more transparent and coherent than they are at present. the excessive increase in the number of regulatory bodies would undoubtedly lead to an increase in european regulatory intervention, to the fragmentation and opacity of european policies and, by extension, to the difficulty of functional coordination. the european parliament considers that the provisions of the draft interinstitutional agreement submitted may constitute a minimum set of common principles and rules for the structure, operation and control of regulatory bodies in order to integrate them harmoniously into the framework of the fundamental principles deriving from the system of the treaties. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of electricity and natural gas is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre and the right)
member of the commission. the short answer to that question is that the commission is not considering alternatives, for example the envisaged tobin tax, which is a rather controversial proposal contested by many. the proposals that the commission has examined are those that have emerged from discussions amongst our member states. they are, as i say, subject to staff working papers. they are not currently subject to the initiation of the commission itself. obviously, should a so-called tobin tax start to be canvassed or promoted by a large number of our member states, that is no doubt something that the commission could examine and bring forward views on.
member of the commission. the honourable member has made a perfectly valid observation. it should be pointed out that although a fuel tax would have an impact on prices, it may in fact contribute to putting air travel on an equal footing with alternative means of transportation, such as road travel, for which taxes are currently paid on fuel, and which are often the only option for the less well-off traveller. the point made by the honourable member will no doubt be taken into consideration by those interested in pursuing this matter.
member of the commission. the honourable member baroness ludford asks for clarification regarding special searches in relation to eurodac and action taken by the commission. i am glad to respond to this question, which falls within the field of responsibility of commission vice-president frattini. firstly, a search is defined as special when it aims not to determine the member state responsible for an asylum application, but to guarantee to each individual the exercise of his or her rights as provided for in the data protection directive. article 18 of the eurodac regulation sets out the procedures for the exercise of the right to information and to access to, correction or erasing of personal data processed by eurodac. these rights are granted by eu data protection legislation and they aim to ensure the protection of the right to privacy of the individual. indeed, in accordance with article 18(2) and under the eurodac regulation, any person residing in a member state has the right to obtain in any member state data relating to her or him that is recorded in the central database and that the member state transmitted to the central unit. she or he can subsequently ask that member state to correct data that was factually inaccurate or to erase data that was unlawfully recorded. it is worth noting that only a few member states sent such searches to the central unit. under the system laid down by eu data protection legislation, the member states’ data protection authorities and the european data protection supervisor are the competent authorities to monitor the lawfulness of personal data-processing activities by eurodac. during a recent eurodac users’ meeting, the commission reminded eurodac users of their legal obligations. at another meeting organised by the european data protection supervisor, the commission drew the attention of the edps and the national supervisory authorities to the high number of special searches noted in the eurodac central unit. the commission is following this issue closely since it is important to clarify whether activities carried out by national authorities within the framework of eurodac comply with our established data protection rules.
member of the commission. first, i will pass on your concerns to commissioner frattini. second, the commission has asked for further clarification from one member state where a particularly high number of searches were noticed in a very short period of time. you will understand that at this stage, without knowing the exact reasons for these numbers, i do not want to name and blame any particular member states. i repeat that, even if we are surprised by these numbers, there is no evidence at this stage that the eurodac regulation has been incorrectly applied.
member of the commission. let me start by pointing out that the ultimate responsibility in decision-making to facilitate the political process to determine kosovo’s future status is in the hands of the united nations secretary-general, in line with un security council resolution 1244. the commission is satisfied with the un secretary-general’s recent recommendation and its subsequent endorsement by the security council that says talks on kosovo’s future status should go ahead. the commission is also pleased with the appointment of president martti ahtisaari on 1 november this year as the un secretary general’s special representative or status envoy to lead the talks on the future of kosovo. the commission fully supports the efforts of the international community and of president ahtisaari to prepare and work out a balanced and sustainable settlement in kosovo and we shall obviously work closely with president ahtisaari to achieve this objective. concerning the eu’s participation and the commission’s role, i would like to point out four things. first of all, we must ensure that the outcome is compatible with the european perspective for kosovo and covers the whole western balkans region. secondly, we need to empower the local authorities, our future interlocutors and, at the same time, maintain a streamlined international presence as a security guarantee in kosovo. thirdly, and i am sure that the european parliament agrees with me on this issue in particular, our common goal must be ‘status with standards’. it is of paramount importance that the rights of minorities and the protection of cultural and historical sites are ensured in order to achieve a sustainable settlement that facilitates stability and the european perspective for the whole region. and finally, economic development is crucial for the future of kosovo. i shall soon present a joint paper on the eu’s overall policy on kosovo with javier solana. in that document we will outline how we will facilitate the status process with appropriate financial resources, something on which the commission would like to work closely with parliament. i count on your support for this very important endeavour.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and his staff for their reply and for their cooperation and i would just like to remind you of two things. firstly, it is very important to support kosovo's european perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it is very important, since a joint text is to be drawn up with mr solana, as the commissioner said, that the european union has a specific negotiating tactic on the specific points, so that we can help to deal with the problems that will arise, but at the same time, all of this together, to form the european perspective.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the commission's action in the field of restructuring is a pan-european activity. the commission does not have specific mechanisms for anticipating business restructuring and future economic and labour developments in every sector and for every type of employment in island, rural and remote regions. each member state has the tools to ensure supervision of individual sectors and of its own labour market. however, the commission may introduce specific surveillance for a specific sector or region. the restructuring and employment communication of 31 march 2005 gives the social partners the opportunity to address the commission in this respect. in its communication on industrial policy of 5 october, the commission also identified certain industries that could face structural changes in the coming years. in this context, it is necessary to be able to anticipate and facilitate such changes at regional, national or european level. however, restructuring can also occur in the tertiary sector and needs to be addressed in detailed studies. the commission cooperates with the dublin monitoring centre and takes an active part in its sectoral and restructuring monitoring projects. the commitments and agreements of the european union concluded at bilateral and international level affect some of the determinants of restructuring, such as the degree of market opening, market access, technological innovation and its diffusion, and the social provisions contained in these types of agreements. the commission has several instruments at its disposal to contribute to the sustainable development of regions, including in particular the european employment strategy, the european social fund for investment in human capital, the european regional development fund for investment in infrastructure, productive investment and the development of internal potential. the structural funds provide assistance under medium-term strategic programmes to anticipate and better manage industrial developments and minimise their impact on workers. in this respect, the commission's proposals for the future 2007-13 programming period also consider monitoring and managing change as a priority under the competitiveness and employment objective. this will lead to a focus on three important issues: the significant employment inequalities, the continuing rapid pace of economic and social restructuring brought about by globalisation and the development of the knowledge-based economy, and demographic changes resulting in an ageing workforce. this regulation provides, inter alia, for a crisis reserve of 1% for convergence regions and 3% for other regions, which will enable the member state to use the funds to better manage economic and social restructuring or the consequences of the opening-up of the world market. moreover, the commission has recently proposed the establishment of a globalisation adjustment fund to counter any adverse effects of restructuring. if established, the fund will support workers affected by the crisis linked to globalisation. in the context of educating future generations, the european education programmes erasmus, socrates and leonardo enable thousands of young students to study abroad. the framework programmes for research financed by the european union also make it possible to finance very important projects at european level, particularly in the fields of labour, education and training and innovation, which open the way to further activities.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his rather informative reply. i would like to ask you specifically whether you have foreseen where this proposed fund for restructuring aid will be financed from and whether there is any provision for making all these supporting measures public in order to strengthen the confidence of europeans in developments and not to discourage them in the face of the phenomenon of globalisation.
mr president, on the dialectical relationship between consolidation, deepening and enlargement, i was satisfied with mr brok's remarks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a role that is visible, i like to think is familiar. firstly, we have supported in practice the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. we were the first to condemn the acts of accession of these two countries to the european union. secondly, we have supported turkey's european orientation, with a view to its compliance with international law and the european acquis. the occupation of the territory of the republic of cyprus - the casus belli - the violations of greek airspace, the circumvention of religious freedom and the threats against the ecumenical patriarchate continue. thirdly, albania is largely supported financially by the migrant exchange of its citizens working in greece. greece, as a country of immigration, is proportionally the first country in the european union, based on its population size. fourthly, we support the european orientation of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is why we support the european perspective of the countries in our region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. ladies and gentlemen, the full acceptance and application of the principles, values and rules of the union is the responsibility of these countries. but it is also the right of the european union, of all its political and institutional actors, and of its member states, to control the course of their integration. the challenge is common.
the strategy of enlargement and integration into the european institutions is the only credible and effective proposal from the european union, the only powerful incentive to start the process of change and reform. today, what we are witnessing in relations between the european union and the candidate countries is a mutual distrust which is also having a negative effect on public opinion in europe. we cannot demand changes and reforms if the objective of future membership is not clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is true of turkey. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. how does the european union intend to react if turkey continues this practice? the practice towards human and minority rights? the practice against cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission, with its proposals to strengthen the european strategy for the balkans, is indeed moving in the right direction by reaffirming the strategy adopted by the european council in thessaloniki in 2003. supporting the european perspective of the western balkans with a view to their future integration into the european institutions is a security investment for the european union itself. negotiations on the conclusion of stabilisation and association agreements with albania, serbia and montenegro, and bosnia and herzegovina must proceed smoothly. i would also suggest to the commissioner that the timetable for completing these negotiations should be made clearer as a strong incentive for these countries. the possible withdrawal of montenegro should not adversely affect the negotiations with serbia. serbia has a crucial role to play in the stability of the balkans. the european union and the european commission must be closely involved in the negotiations on the final status of kosovo in accordance with the principles of international law. the european commission must, however, take a special interest in the rights of serbian minorities in kosovo. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that i fully agree with the commission's proposal for the candidacy of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but on the issue of the name pending, i would say that 'it takes two to tango' and unfortunately the leadership of macedonia is trapped in a dead end.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, this debate comes at a critical stage in iraq’s political transition. when this parliament last discussed iraq with the commission and council in july, iraq’s political leaders were in the process of negotiating a new constitution. one month ago, iraqis voted to approve that constitution which would, for the first time ever, provide them with guarantees on their freedom, security and human rights. the constitutional referendum marks a further step by the iraqi people on the road to democracy, freedom and peace. in one month’s time they will vote again, this time to elect a new government that will need quickly to tackle important tasks such as planning and delivering much-needed services that will provide hope for a brighter and better future for millions of iraqis. last month’s referendum was remarkable in many ways. along with january’s elections, it provided iraqis with their first real taste of democracy. they participated, for the first time, in political decisions that will affect their own, and their country’s, future. it was humbling, particularly for those of us who come from countries which often take our freedoms and democracy for granted, to see the courage and determination of those who exercised their democratic rights and took part in the voting, braving difficult conditions and the threat of violence. european union support for the constitutional referendum had a significant impact. the commissioner will in a moment no doubt detail the valuable assistance which the commission provided to the process in support of the independent electoral commission for iraq and of the un. the united nations has played, and continues to play, a key and outstanding supporting role in the constitutional review and election processes. the united nations assistance mission for iraq played a vital role in assisting the iraqi electoral commission under the most difficult of circumstances. the decision to approve the constitution paved the way for december’s general election. this should represent another major step in the political transition that will eventually lead to iraq assuming its full role in the international community. iraq is, of course, still some way from achieving that aspiration. although a large majority of voters voted in favour of the constitution, the results of the referendum show there are still substantial divisions to be overcome between iraq’s ethnic communities. a review of the constitution will take place early in the new government’s tenure. this offers an important opportunity for iraqis to forge a broader consensus on the future of their country, and will assist the creation of an inclusive political system. iraq’s political leaders will need to resolve key issues, including federalism, dealing with its political past, and the management of natural resources. dissatisfaction also threatens the election process. it feeds the sense of frustration and disenfranchisement that some communities feel. it also breeds the sympathy which extremists and terrorists use to justify maintaining the cycle of violence and the insurgency. it is imperative, therefore, that iraq’s political, ethnic and religious leaders do all they can to address these issues. we hope that the new parliament and government is as representative and as inclusive as possible. turning now to international assistance to iraq’s process of political transition, the eu and the wider international community have already provided significant and valuable support. i look forward to the commissioner describing the commission’s invaluable and ongoing assistance. i would like to mention an important step taken towards closer partnership between the eu and iraq through the signature of the joint eu-iraq political declaration on 21 september. this paves the way for regular political dialogue with iraq on issues of mutual interest, such as promotion of good governance, protection of human rights and conflict prevention and resolution. during that visit, the iraqi government stressed how much it values the eu’s assistance, particularly in supporting the constitutional and electoral processes and work to improve capacity in the rule of law sector, including through the eujust lex mission. many neighbouring countries and other regional players are making concerted efforts to engage constructively. in particular we welcome the arab league’s suggestion to work with iraq in holding a national dialogue conference early next year. a preparatory meeting is due to take place in cairo in a few days’ time, on 19 november. this meeting has the potential to lay the foundations for post-election international engagement and support for the new government. the council has strongly urged regional states, in particular syria, to support the political process in iraq. this includes cooperating with iraq to prevent cross-border transit and support for terrorists and insurgents. as we approach this landmark election we should consider what implications the formation of a new and long-term iraqi government might hold for our engagement with iraq. our first objective must be to continue to provide support for the election process. the iraq government has specifically requested this. the eu will provide support to the election monitoring process, including through supporting the work of domestic election observers. i know that some of you were present in iraq for the january elections. i hope that it will again be possible for members of this parliament to show their support for iraq’s aspiring parliamentarians in december. i have already said that the review of the constitution during the early part of the new government’s tenure will be key. the eu stands ready to support actively these important efforts, and is well placed to provide expert advice and technical assistance. in the longer term, we also need to continue support for the vital rule of law sector and consider its enhancement. the eu is playing a leading role by becoming a supporting donor of the rule of law sector working group, which aims to coordinate donor and government activity in this sector. the eu’s rule of law mission for iraq, eujust lex, is due to reach the end of its mandate at the end of june 2006. the iraqi government has asked for the programme to be extended and expanded to include wider training of judicial, police and prison officers. the council is considering how to respond. strengthening respect for human rights is also key. iraq has asked for help in developing its capacity to implement human rights principles and to accede to key human rights conventions. the european union is uniquely placed to provide this support and advice, and the eu stands ready to offer further support in this area. both the eu and iraq hope to broaden and enhance their partnership further, as the political process goes forward, through the establishment of contractual political dialogue and other appropriate contractual relations. let me say once again that as iraq approaches this milestone in its political transition, now is the time for the international community to provide its full support to the iraqi people. the european union, along with others in the international community are, and should continue to be – as in so many other developing and recovering countries – at the forefront of reconstruction and development. i look forward to discussing this with parliament and hearing honourable members’ views. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, it is almost exactly four months since we first discussed iraq, as lord bach has said. i remember saying then that for the iraqis the hard work was only beginning. i truly meant it. today, the iraqis have a constitution. they will soon elect a constitutional government. but today iraqis are also aware of substantial divisions that still need to be overcome in the country. they are now facing two very critical challenges: on the one hand, ensuring inclusive electoral consultations in december and, on the other hand, after doing that, carrying out a comprehensive review of the constitution, which has to be more inclusive. we stood by the iraqis during the constitutional process and will also do so during the preparation of the election process and the elections. by providing another eur 20 million in support, the commission was the sole supporter of the united nations and the un-led constitutional support project. we feel part of a process that allowed the iraqis to have their say on the constitution by casting their ballots on the referendum day. with regard to the elections, you surely remember how hopeful i was in july that we could also dispatch an electoral observation mission. but today we must accept the evidence that the security conditions do not allow it. this does not, however, prevent us from assisting in other equally effective ways. we are providing eur 30 million to the un electoral support project. while i speak, several european electoral experts are working side-by-side with the independent electoral commission for iraq and with the un to ensure proper preparation of the elections and also to set up a transparent domestic monitoring system. but the road leading to democracy and peace in iraq does not end with elections. inevitably, it crosses the path of regional cooperation. iraq, its neighbours and the other states in the region are called upon to play a key role by strengthening good neighbourly relations and by cooperating to improve regional security. i am very happy to say that the secretary-general of the arab league, mr amre moussa, has also gone there now and that there will be a conference next year, together with the arabs, in order to enhance this relationship that has been hampered in the last few years. iraq will be a federal iraq. functional central institutions will be set up to support the state structure that the iraqis themselves have chosen. to that end, suitable legislative and institutional frameworks need to be established. viable solutions will have to be identified rapidly to ensure continued progress towards stability and democracy. inclusiveness is absolutely the only way forward. we shall also consider how best we, the european union, can help the building-up of institutions that favour an inclusive approach. we shall also encourage the efforts of the arab league and others in the region – such as jordan, for instance – to promote inclusiveness and national reconciliation. i am convinced that the recent visit of kofi annan has had a positive effect in advancing that understanding among different parties. the political process and stability in iraq is important for all of us and for its neighbours. the recent events in jordan very clearly remind us of the importance of succeeding in this inclusive approach, which is crucial for the whole political stabilisation of the region. for the iraqi citizens, it is very important that they really have the feeling of freedom and can exercise their freedom. in this regard, we shall not forget that most iraqis are still struggling for their children to go to school, for their hospitals to be opened in order to fight the most ordinary diseases, for access to water, jobs – the basics – and for their livelihood. it is an unsustainable situation for any people in any country, and therefore also for the people of iraq. their needs will continue to be at the core of our assistance to iraq in 2006. i should like to elaborate on what we have been doing. we have supported the political process. in addition, we, together with the united states, have co-hosted a very important conference – the iraq international conference – in brussels on 22 june. that was instrumental in mobilising international support from over 80 countries and organisations for the iraqi transitional government and for the institutions for the transitional period before the december elections. we have also always assisted in reconstruction: we delivered an assistance package of eur 580 million through the international reconstruction fund for iraq. we have always tried to work towards meeting the basic needs of the population such as water, sanitation, healthcare and job creation. we are also working together with two ministries – the energy and trade ministries – on institution-building. for the future, we want to support the political process for the election. we also want to set up joint working groups in areas of common interest such as trade and energy. we want to support the wto accession request, initiate negotiations for an eu-iraq agreement on trade and cooperation and progress on the opening of the commission delegation in baghdad in 2006. the union has much to offer beyond supporting the reconstruction process. we want to be a meaningful partner for iraq. the iraqis are looking forward to that. we shall meet their expectations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, after your very interesting speeches, i should like to make the following remarks: the first point concerns the commissioner's last sentence. the european union has a very important role to play beyond reconstruction. and our question is how do we translate this very interesting idea into concrete policy. the second point concerns the adoption of the constitution. i would agree that the adoption of the constitution, despite the fact that a significant group did not respond, is an important event. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. for example, the issue and role of religion, the federal model, national identity and access to natural resources, particularly oil. the third point concerns the elections. the elections are indeed very important. the new parliament will be concerned, as the constitution states, not only with the revision of the constitution but also with the implementation of certain provisions of the constitution. the fourth point concerns an issue which, unfortunately, despite the efforts and the process of democratization, still remains open. it's a matter of safety. i do not want to reopen a debate that has already been held in parliament and in the council and in every member state. but i want to say this: there are many studies - many of them, mr president-in-office, have been published in newspapers in your country - which raise questions about the continued presence of foreign troops in iraq. i would like to repeat here, and i will end here, the proposal we discussed in the european parliament: i think the time has come to replace the foreign military forces in iraq with a united nations peacekeeping force.
mr president, the international community has welcomed the results of the referendum as an important step on the road to democratization in iraq. it is, if one is to stick to the participation rates and the figures of the result. but i fear, mr president, that everyone is creating his own virtual reality for iraq. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. instead of gradually being tempered, the decentralised tendencies of the national and religious communities are reinforcing and undermining the objective of iraq's national unity, identity and sovereignty. the majority of sunnis are consciously outside the political process. the process of political reconstruction is leading to the creation of a loose state with at least three speeds. on the one hand we welcome the move towards a democratic iraq, and on the other hand we welcome the establishment of a theocratic shiite regime in the south and a quasi-independence of the kurds in the north. the consequences for peace and stability are obvious. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. but i fear that the hopes and wishes expressed here today do not correspond to the harsh reality of the military occupation and the serious strategic mistakes that the united states continues to make. mr president, an old arab proverb says: "better 100 years of tyranny than one year of chaos". and while the tyranny of the hussein regime has been overthrown, the conditions that are being created daily are pushing iraq into a long-term chaos.
mr. president, i wanted to talk to you about a very serious matter. i wonder which lady this morning didn't put lacquer in her hair. and which one of us hasn't sprayed his armpit? so in this way we are helping to create the greenhouse. it's just things that we don't even follow ourselves. you're wasting your efforts, mr. mayor, if you don't get the americans to play by the rules. i'll give you two numbers: the united states emits more pollution than three quarters of the un member states. new york state emits as much pollution as all of africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a tragic reality. and we also have to see what the world's most populous country, china, which alone has a quarter of the world's population, is going to do. we in europe, whatever we do, cannot be effective. we have a huge climate problem, and it's not limited by borders. we can't lift the wire. so we must convince the americans not to have disastrous results. the path that's mapped out with mathematical precision is that we'll have the same luck as the dinosaurs. we all need to understand that the threat of bin laden's terrorism is far less than the environmental threat posed by the americans. so if we want to get results, we have to get the americans on board.
the agenda calls for voting time. (results and other voting details: see minutes) - before the vote:
the time for voting is over.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it has once again been a high-quality debate on an important subject, similar to the last time we had an opportunity to debate these issues in this chamber. a number of speakers including the commissioner and mr poettering have underlined the significance of the iranian president’s statement for the wider middle east peace process, and with that i would concur. president ahmadinejad’s comments caused concern about iran’s role more widely within the region and indeed about its future intentions. the fact that these comments were made on the same day as a horrific attack on israeli citizens should reinforce for all of us the lesson that incitement to violence and to the terrorism that it breeds are despicable and unacceptable. frankly it is clear what iran must do. it must renounce groups using terror and violence, including the kind of sickening propaganda that was referred to by mr poettering, and support a solution to the palestinian question based on the principle of two states living side by side in peace and in security. there is no reason why an islamic political system such as iran’s should deny fundamental democratic rights such as freedom of choice and freedom of expression and there can be no excuse for any system abusing human rights, as a number of speakers have made clear in the course of their contributions to this debate. on the wider nuclear issue, iran must provide objective guarantees that its nuclear programme is solely for peaceful purposes. the governments of the european union are now in close consultation with each other and key partners such as the united states, russia, china, india and south africa about the next steps. we all look to iran to reinstate the suspension of uranium conversion activity which it agreed to last year and which the iaea board itself has said is essential for confidence to be rebuilt and we urge iran to come back to talks on long-term arrangements on the basis of the paris agreement. on 7 november, as speakers have mentioned, european union foreign ministers reaffirmed the union’s support for a diplomatic solution to international concerns over iran’s nuclear programme which should include an agreement on long-term arrangements. such a solution would help create the climate we believe to be necessary for a better relationship with europe generally and the international community as a whole. working and engaging with iran is of course a challenge, but we must do our best to meet that challenge in the important weeks and months ahead. our preference remains to aim for a mutually beneficial relationship based on cooperation and our shared interests, in that europe wants to see iran realise its potential and to grow and prosper. that is certainly what its young population deserves and that is, as ms beer said, why it is important to keep open the links so that the other iran, as it was described – the more open iranian society to which speakers have addressed themselves today – can welcome the efforts which are being made to maintain that dialogue, certainly by the commission and by others. but a relationship of this sort will also need to address the european union’s main concerns, including, of course, nuclear proliferation and human rights. in conclusion, on behalf of the presidency, let me say simply this: iran stands at a critical juncture. the world is watching to see how its new government faces up to the very important choices that it has to make in the weeks, months and years ahead. we from a european union point of view will continue to encourage iran to address international concerns about its policies and about its statements. i hope that iran does this and that its relations with the wider world and the european union in particular are therefore able to evolve in the direction in which i believe this house wants them to develop. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am conscious that your direction to honourable members also, no doubt, includes the presidency, so i shall endeavour to keep my answers as brief as is appropriate, given the range of questions that we have been asked. in response to question 1, the assessment of the impact of international agreements in terms of companies relocating and restructuring is not within the council’s competence. the council does not have any forecasts for the restructuring of companies. the european social fund is the main financial tool through which the european union supports member states’ employment policies within the framework of the european employment strategy. set up by the treaty of rome, it is the longest established structural fund. the structural fund supports measures to improve employment opportunities and to develop human resources and integration into the labour market in order to promote a high level of employment, equality between men and women, sustainable development and economic and social cohesion. furthermore, the council will be taking forward discussion of the commission’s proposals for a globalisation adjustment fund, which could provide assistance for those affected by economic restructuring. rural development also makes european union funding available in parallel with national funding for developing rural areas. in 2007 to 2013, this money will focus on increasing the competitiveness of european agriculture, food and forestry, land management and the environment, and quality of life and diversification in rural areas. thus the european structural fund and rural development funding provides the tools to help workers adjust to the situations referred to by the honourable member.
mr president, i would like to ask the council representative whether the restructuring fund will have specific financial resources and whether the british presidency has already used the open method of coordination to bring forward new proposals for the management of restructuring.
president-in-office of the council. i would suggest respectfully that the honourable member is trying to tempt me into discussions as to the approaches or suggested approaches of one member state or another, when my responsibility today is to speak on behalf of the council. i can assure him that from a presidency point of view the statement that i shared with parliament and which was agreed by council members on 13 july is a strong basis on which, as a united front, we can confront the threat of international terrorism. let us be very clear: the terrorists want to deny us not just life, through their vicious and unprecedented attacks on us, but also our way of life. that is why i think the statement made by the council on 13 july is such a strong reflection of pan-european sentiments as to how we should deal with these challenges.
president-in-office of the council. the council has not discussed the level of member states’ defence budgets as this is a national responsibility. as regards defence capabilities, ways are being sought to improve them by increasing levels of research spending, as well as research collaboration, tackling capability gaps and training. for this reason, and following up on the discussion at the informal heads of government meeting in hampton court, the presidency has asked the high representative, in association where appropriate with the presidency, the future presidency and the european commission, to take forward work in this particular area. working with the presidency, the high representative will present a summary of his initial orientations ahead of the december european council.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, the presidency is fully aware of the importance of reaching an agreement on the new financial perspective by the end of the year and will do everything it can to facilitate this. this has been something of a recurring theme of the discussions in the chamber this afternoon. to this end, the council undertook a series of bilateral consultations with member states during the summer and discussions on this issue resumed in the council on 7 november. they will continue, of course, at the general affairs council on monday, 21 november. the presidency will continue to work towards an agreement, but until such time as it might be ready to submit to the council an overall compromise proposal, it cannot comment on what such a proposal might or might not contain.
mr president, do you intend to inform the european parliament, before the december summit, of the compromise text being prepared by the presidency? given that the united kingdom led the way in june in preventing an agreement, is the presidency sincerely prepared to move towards an agreement with the twenty-five? does the council consider that the british presidency is in danger of becoming one of the most ineffective and unsuccessful in the history of the european union?
in writing. the responsibility for the production, proliferation and use of weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, biological) lies solely with the imperialist powers, including the eu countries. this is the historical truth that the european parliament's resolutions are trying to conceal. they indulge in a rhetoric and a feigned interest, without ever naming who produces, distributes and uses these weapons. in earlier and more recent history, the kla has always been used to subjugate peoples to imperialist domination. hiroshima and nagasaki were bombed by the us. phosphorus bombs (napalm) were first used in the gramm war against the greek democratic army and in vietnam by the united states. the depleted uranium from the us and nato wars in iraq, afghanistan and yugoslavia. the chemical and biological weapons were sold by european companies to saddam. they were recently used by the us in fallujah. whenever and wherever the wmds were used they had and have the identity of imperialism. the european parliament's resolutions not only make no mention of all this, but shift the responsibility to smaller states and individual parties, with often slanderous accusations, in order to create pretexts for new interventions and wars, and to safeguard their sovereignty.
, in writing. the statements by the iranian president that 'israel must be wiped off the map' are reprehensible. but no reasonable person can believe that israel is seriously threatened by these statements, and needs the 'solidarity' of the european parliament. the statements of the iranian president are mainly for internal consumption, to amuse the iranian people's opposition to the despotic regime and the deterioration of the people's living conditions. the european parliament's officials know this. the reasons for their haste to issue a condemnatory resolution are part of their broader plans in the middle east. at the same time, they use the statements as a pretext to accuse iran of supporting "international terrorism", advocating the us policy of threatening military intervention against iran and syria. it is no coincidence that the british prime minister, who holds the eu presidency today, spoke out about military intervention in iran. we voted against the resolution not because we have any feelings of solidarity with the iranian regime, but because we do not recognize any right for the eu, nato and the usa to pretend to be the guardians of human rights and international law when they themselves are flagrantly violating them and supporting all kinds of authoritarian regimes when it serves their interests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs martens. the report reflects the reality and outlines the prospects of the development strategy for africa. the situation in africa, which is dominated by the least developed countries, is due to both internal and external factors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: but the leap of external factors is our concern. and it's not just because the european union is by far the largest donor of official development assistance that we're concerned. it is not just a matter of increasing aid to 0.7% of gross domestic product by 2015. we are concerned in the sense that development aid will, as the report emphasizes, go hand in hand with improved quality, efficiency, transparency and visibility. the challenge for the european union is, in my view, to: first, to overcome the fragmentation of development assistance, and to build a coherent approach. secondly, the link between the union's policy and the millennium development goals. thirdly, the establishment of effective coordination of development aid between the member states and the commission, and between the union's own policies and its development policy. union action must be guided by a clear timetable, by specific objectives and by a sequence of objectives and means. the report i am co-signing shows that this is a necessity. the commissioner summed up the challenge of africa in the phrase: 'one africa, one europe, one goal'. the european union is the only institution in the world which has the power to impose sanctions on the countries of the region. we are in solidarity with you, commissioner, in this flagship initiative to respond convincingly to the challenge of africa.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the gross violation of human rights in burma has been the subject of several resolutions of the european parliament. the resolution also calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years, and for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience. in addition to all this, burma is a major producer and trafficker of drugs, hiv is a major player, and burma has a dismal record in this area. these are issues that certainly should concern the international community because the situation is not only not improving, but is getting worse. for these reasons, there is a need for the un security council to intervene. we believe that aung san suu kyi, who has international standing and has been honoured with international awards, can unite political parties and all the conflicting political groups and guarantee autonomy to national minorities so that there can be democratic, judicial and political change in burma. the report, which was recently drawn up on the initiative of president vaclav havel and the reverend desmond tutu and which confirms with precise data the dramatic situation in the country, highlights this need for a wider dialogue. the dialogue, as i said, must be conducted not only at the internal level but also at the international level. i think therefore that the european commission should take the initiative to the un security council in order to find a solution to give burma a democratic future, but first there is intense pressure. (applause from the centre and the right)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am delighted to be here today with commissioner mandelson. i should like to make some introductory remarks on the preparations for the world trade organization ministerial conference in hong kong next month, before handing the floor to commissioner mandelson who is spearheading the negotiations on behalf of the european union. the members of the european parliament know that this is a crucial time for the world trading system. the doha development agenda, launched in qatar in 2001, is an ambitious agenda. the goals the global trading system has set itself are high, and rightly so. there are few more important issues than the need to reach a consensus on trade liberalisation that will be good not just for development in the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries, but also for our businesses here in the european union. i would like to remind members of this parliament of some of the important matters at stake. the last trade round added over eur 400 billion to global gdp, and estimates suggest that success in cutting trade barriers by a third in the dda would increase incomes worldwide by more than eur 500 billion. the global economy enjoyed a boost last year. real export growth of 9% helped it to grow by 4%, but a successful dda tackling barriers to trade will continue to fuel world growth for years to come. these trade negotiations are not simply about altering the relative size of different countries’ slices of the world’s trade pie; they are about making a bigger pie for all members of the global trading system. the dda provides a real opportunity to improve terms of trade across the world and to demonstrate practically that 149 countries can work together for the common good. a successful dda will help underpin the status of the wto as a multilateral institution and help underpin the multilateral trading system. that has to be good for all member countries. a successful conclusion to the dda is absolutely central to showing that the world has the capacity to confront its multilateral challenges with the necessary purpose to overcome them. however, let us not forget that doha is a development round. it is an opportunity to tackle some of the most fundamental injustices at the heart of world trade. this is an important issue, and it will be important at hong kong that we reach agreement on an interim package of measures for developing countries, as proposed by commissioner mandelson. in particular, the eu would like to see wto members endorse strong special and differential treatment to give developing countries the flexibility to make their own development choices; agree a package of measures for developing countries related to implementing the uruguay round; agree to provide complete market access for all least-developed countries to all developed country markets, as the eu has already offered; agree to eliminate all forms of export subsidy; agree that ldcs should not be forced to open their markets in these negotiations; and agree to take strong action on commodities of special importance to poor countries, address the issue of preference erosion and simplify the rules applied to exports from least-developed countries. i would like briefly to turn my attention to some of the detailed issues at stake. commissioner mandelson will obviously go into these in a lot more detail, so i will simply say that, on agriculture, we have a chance in hong kong to tackle distortions in the market that work against the poorest countries. developing countries would benefit from the eradication of trade-distorting export practices and the reduction of domestic subsidies that can undermine otherwise competitive production in these poor countries. combined with lower tariffs, this will give all developing countries improved market access to sell agricultural goods to the eu, the us and each other. this would in turn help those countries reduce the still high levels of poverty, particularly in rural areas. we are all aware that the idea of increased agricultural imports into the eu, particularly for the larger emerging economies, is liable to raise concerns in some member states and i certainly do not under-estimate those concerns. for in europe we spend over 40% of our budget on agriculture to support around 5% of our workforce and only 2% of eu gdp. japan subsidises its rice by around five times its market value. the us cotton industries receive usd 4 billion a year in subsidies: more than the total income of the four west african nations most dependent on cotton. meanwhile, in many sub-saharan economies, agriculture accounts for more than half the workforce and for more than half of gdp. we must work towards abolishing all developed countries’ trade-distorting subsidies. the effects on poorer countries of the developed world’s agricultural policies are unsustainable and need to be changed. we in the eu have led the way in making those changes. the reforms of the common agricultural policy that we have already agreed are significant and are not always recognised fully by our wto partners. we have also responded promptly and positively, with the commission making offers in the negotiations. we now need to see a response from others to what we have put on the table. a successful conclusion on the nama negotiations could increase global incomes by over eur 40 billion a year within a decade. that is a great potential prize. if we cut all trade barriers by half we could raise the annual income of developing countries by more than eur 110 billion – three times the value of all aid budgets put together. of course, while south-south trade has the potential to grow through the nama negotiations, so too do our own economies in terms of increased trade with partners across the world. european exporters still face significant tariff barriers to other markets. the eu could gain eur 20 billion per year from nama alone. so the potential wins from agriculture and nama are clear, but it is important that the potential long-term benefits from services liberalisation and trade facilitation, resulting in greater real market access, are also given equal weight in the negotiations. that is something that the commission and commissioner mandelson have been pressing for very strongly on our behalf, because services make up 70% of world output, but only 20% of world trade. currently both the developed and the developing countries have restrictions on services, and gains on services liberalisation could double the gains from the liberalisation of trade in goods. we all agree that we need to find an effective way of making progress on services. however, i personally believe that we must avoid imposing prescriptive requirements on developing countries to liberalise services. i also wish to speak briefly about the dangers of inaction. i am sure the eu is aware that there are those who feel that the approach we are taking is not the right one. however, in a changing world economic landscape, it is perhaps inevitable that we hear calls for a more protectionist approach to be adopted, within both the developed and the developing world. it is clear that we must resist this trend. protectionism benefits only small, isolated groups within society; often those with the loudest voices. it impedes growth, stifles competition and innovation and, in many instances, is just plainly unfair. nonetheless, it would be equally wrong for us to ignore the genuine concerns that prompt such responses in the first place. those concerns are often over the impact of liberalisation on specific communities that are heavily reliant on particular industries. they arise when people feel that the global trading system has forgotten the human element in its negotiations. whilst the benefits of trade liberalisation are global, we need to recognise that change can be both local and profound in nature. that is what we are doing with the offers that are being made by the commission. however, this is also why we need to work hard to ensure that poor countries get the support they need to adjust and take advantage of new trading opportunities. with the other developed countries we must build on commission president barroso’s pledge earlier this year to increase aid for trade to eur 1 billion a year and enhance further trade-related assistance, including investment in infrastructure within growing aid budgets. the eu is by far the biggest provider of trade-related assistance worldwide. we are therefore in an excellent position to encourage others to join us in a significant and effective initiative. in conclusion, hong kong presents us with an opportunity to make significant progress in increasing global trade flows, but we also have an opportunity to ensure that the world trading system is fairer and spreads the benefit of trading more widely. we must not lose sight of the balance needed between the two. that is what the council, working with the commission and mr mandelson, who is leading the negotiations on the eu’s behalf in consultation with the european parliament, is seeking to achieve. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, this is an important debate. much rides on the doha round: for us in europe, for developing countries and indeed for the whole of the global economy. in just over one week, the hong kong wto ministerial will begin. i know some of you will be there, so it is essential that i report to you formally on where we stand and that we discuss the situation that this round faces. we are far from where we hoped to be. like pascal lamy, i had hoped that in hong kong we would be able to complete two thirds of the work of the round, notably by agreeing full modalities in the main areas of negotiation. the reason we have not achieved this is simply that after we agreed on the framework agreement in july 2004, the talks were simply becalmed. some negotiators went through a period of posturing which we were able to break only in july of this year. although the united states finally put forward an agriculture offer in october, this was many months later than we had hoped. the eu responded within the same month with our own agriculture market access offer. still others continued to frustrate the negotiation. for far too long we have been stuck on one issue and one set of interests – that of large-scale agriculture exporters – rather than pushing ahead on the whole doha agenda. so, although it is fashionable to blame the european union for holding up this round by being reticent on agriculture, in fact the opposite is the truth. we have moved the round forward in agriculture, not just once, but three times in the last eighteen months. the truth is that others have been holding back, not because we have done or offered too little, but because they have been demanding too much. this is a development round, not an agricultural exporters’ round, and the two should not be confused. in view of this delay, rather than go to hong kong with great expectations and an equally great risk of failure, wto members, on the advice of pascal lamy, decided to lower the ambition for this meeting. i was the last one reluctantly to accept this, but in doing so, i made clear that it cannot mean lowering ambition for the round as a whole. we must still aim for a successful outcome across the whole negotiating agenda, delivering significant development gains by the end of next year. let us be clear, the doha round is too big to fail. it is not just about trade, it is about maintaining the credibility of multilateral cooperation; showing that multilateral institutions can find global answers to global issues; proving that trade genuinely can be put at the service of development. the best way to promote development is to open new trading opportunities to developing countries and then help them with aid to exploit those opportunities. this is even more true for industrial goods and services than it is for agriculture trade, and it is true especially for trade between developing countries. the biggest trade opportunities for developing countries are with other developing countries. the biggest obstacles to this trade are the tariffs on industrial goods that exist between developing countries. i regret that we will not be able to advance this substantially in hong kong. that is why we need a tailored development package for the poorest countries, not as a substitute for what we could achieve later, but as a down payment on it. the main elements of my development proposal which i first made at the zurich mini-ministerial in october and for which i have been pressing since are: first, all industrialised wto members should commit to providing duty- and quota-free access to all products from the least developed countries; second, we should adopt a package of special and differential treatment proposals to confirm the flexibilities for those ldcs that exist in the wto; third, we must enshrine in the wto’s intellectual property agreements conditions for better access to cheap drugs against pandemics; and fourth, we should adopt a strong aid for trade package along the lines of what was agreed at the gleneagles g8 summit. the commission has set an example with the eur 1 billion per year pledge made by president barroso at the g8. i hope the wto partners can agree to these ideas in hong kong. let me turn now to other aspects of the negotiations. on 28 october, the eu put a comprehensive negotiating offer on the table, including on agricultural market access. this created a much-needed opportunity to move the whole round forward. it was a necessary and right thing to do, as it allowed us to have the first real negotiations at the political level on industrial goods and services, anti-dumping rules and development. it began to rebalance the round. i deeply regret that, rather than seizing this opportunity and building on it, our negotiating partners decided to take the easy way out, rejecting our offer on agriculture and criticising it – often in immoderate terms – rather than engaging with it and enabling us to move forward. let us be clear about the value of our offer on agriculture. it goes much further than we went in the uruguay round. it has to be seen as a whole, not just in terms of the tariff reductions that we are tabling, but including our major contributions on reducing domestic support through cap reform and our offer to eliminate export subsidies altogether. we will reduce trade distorting subsidies by 70%. already under the 2003 cap reform, 90% of direct payments to farmers will no longer distort trade. under our proposal, our average agricultural tariff will fall from 23% to 12%, which incidentally is the same as the current us level. taken as a whole, this is the most substantial offer ever made by the european union in any trade round. each element of it – not just the tariff cuts – will provide substantial improvement in market access, as required under the 2004 framework agreement. it will create significant opportunities for agricultural exporters without wiping out preferential access for poor developing countries or doing excessive damage to our own agricultural sector in europe. we have to strike a balance. in my view this is the right balance to strike. we have a responsibility to take into account the impact of reform on european farming communities. what is more, this is a round for all developing countries, notably the poor and needy ones, and not just for competitive agricultural producers who should not seek, in my view, to maximise their own competitive advantage in world markets at the expense of other developing countries in the wto. we saw last week with sugar how sensitive the problem of preference erosion for needy acp countries is. it behoves us all, not just in europe but in the wto membership as a whole, to take this fully into account. we ignore this at everyone’s peril: those whose livelihoods are threatened by it and those who will bear responsibility if they do not respond to the issue of preference erosion. our offer is therefore substantial, measured and credible. it has injected realism into the agricultural negotiations. whereas the us demands on tariff reductions and – to a lesser extent – the g20 proposals would without doubt benefit these countries, they would also have a devastating employment effect on our own farmers and on poor countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific, much of whose agricultural trade, if we were to accept these demands, would simply be wiped out. let us therefore be very clear. i have no plan to make a further offer in agriculture. this is not justified and would further unbalance the negotiations. the time has come for others to match the effort we have made. governments and citizens in europe need to believe that structural change and possible job losses in agriculture will be balanced by the creation of new jobs and new opportunities in other sectors. that is why our negotiating objectives on non-agricultural market access, on industrial goods and services are so important. they are crucial to growth and jobs in europe and are a vital part of the lisbon agenda. i will vigorously pursue these interests and, in agriculture, i will also insist on an agreement on, and an extension of, a register of geographical indications. that is how multilateral negotiation works. there have to be gains all round. that means that others now have to engage seriously in creating new market access for goods and services, which matter not only to europe but also to the world economy and, crucially, to development. this means cutting industrial tariffs as they actually applied, not only lowering bound levels agreed 12 years ago in the uruguay round. this, after all, will be the effect of our proposals in agriculture because, unlike many developing countries, our bound and applied tariffs are usually the same. this does not mean going back on our commitment that developed countries will do more than developing countries. of course we will. we do not expect offers from the least-developed and other weak and vulnerable countries. nor do we expect other developing countries to match the level of market opening by developed countries. but they must do something. that is the principle of this round. we also need progress in trade in services. the current negotiating approach based on requests and offers has not yielded satisfactory results. we need to create a platform for genuine multilateral negotiation which, so far, does not exist. this reflects the importance of services in the modern world economy. it is important not just to us but to developing countries as well. these countries must clearly remain free in services to pursue national policy objectives and fully to safeguard their national right to regulate. what we seek is equal treatment for foreign service suppliers in some sectors, not a commitment to deregulate markets or privatise existing operators. here again, our proposal excludes weak and vulnerable countries and gives flexibility to other developing countries. to conclude, i will do my utmost to make a success of hong kong, to lock in the progress we have made and to establish a platform for us to finish the job in 2006. above all, it is essential that the meeting does not end in acrimony. i will defend and explain europe’s proposals. i will pursue europe’s interests and i will maintain the ambition of the round as a whole, building consensus whenever and wherever it is possible to do so with our negotiating partners. i hope that they will do likewise. they must stop hiding behind unfounded criticism of the european union; stop hiding behind patently unrealistic and tactical demands, and join in a real negotiation on all the issues. if they continue merely to ask for more from europe without paying into the pot themselves, they – not we – risk destroying this round. they will come away, if that happens, with nothing at all. let us rather work together for an outcome that boosts the world’s economy, generates political confidence and helps the world’s poor. that is how we went into this round; that is how we want to come out of it. the possibility still exists, the need is as urgent now as it was when we began the round. everyone must now pull together to make it happen and achieve the objectives that we first set out for ourselves when we agreed the doha charter all those years ago. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, no one can doubt the significant potential benefits that will result from the successful completion of the current round, benefits for both developed and developing countries. these are economic, social, environmental and, above all, developmental benefits. it is precisely these benefits that mandate our obsession with high expectations for the doha development agenda. the setting of less ambitious and realistic targets should only concern the hong kong conference and not the doha round as a whole. the declaration to be adopted at the ministerial conference is intended to consolidate the progress already made in the areas concerned and to set clear objectives for the course of the negotiations. it also has to ensure concrete, tangible results in the area of trade and development. the agricultural sector is, and rightly so, the spearhead of the current negotiations. the democratically legitimized position of the union is the result of the last revision of the common agricultural policy. the european union, as you rightly said, commissioner, has made substantial and credible offers in the current negotiations. we expect our partners to make similar concessions and to seek the necessary flexibility to allow the necessary balanced progress in the individual areas of the doha agenda. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the doha development agenda is based on the principle of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the doha development agenda. i am referring in particular to the areas of services, industrial products, trade facilitation, protection of industrial and intellectual property. the european union, as the world's largest trading power, as the leading actor in global trade diplomacy, is called upon to meet the challenge of the doha round, this round of development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. that is our mandate, too. the mandate of the european people's party, as it was expressed seven months ago, in time, in the position paper adopted by the european people's party. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i'm the editor. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education and the media, i am particularly pleased to see today's debate in the house on the motion for a resolution by the committee on culture on the olympic truce ahead of the winter olympic and paralympic games in turin in february. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on culture and education, as at the previous olympic and paralympic games in athens, today expresses its support for the idea of an olympic truce and asks the council to take concrete measures to ensure that it is observed during the games in turin. as you all know, the idea of the olympic truce goes back to the olympic games of ancient greece. in ancient times, the greek city-states participating in the games would cease all hostilities from the seventh day before the games began until the seventh day after they ended, so that athletes, performers, and spectators could travel to olympia without fear, participate in the games, and return safely to their homeland. from the ninth century bc, when the institution of the olympic truce was born with the signing of a treaty of peace between the kings of sparta and illyria and pisa, until 393 ad, the year of the abolition of the olympic games, the olympic truce was held for 12 centuries continuously at its proper height and contributed to the respect of the institution of the olympic games. today, on the threshold of the 21st century, the idea of the olympic truce is being revived, as it were, as a bridge between ancient tradition and the modern world. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the decision-making process. in this way, we are not only reviving the whole idea of the olympic games, of which the olympic truce is an integral part, but we are also giving a new dynamic and perspective to the olympic games. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olympic games are held in the most appropriate manner, and that the olympic games are held in the most appropriate manner. in 1992, the international olympic committee called on the international community to cease all hostilities during those olympic games. in 1994, during the lillehammer olympics, the ceasefire in sarajevo was established and, four years later, in february 1998, during the nagano games, conflict in the gulf was averted thanks to the intervention of the un secretary-general, mr annan. the united nations general assembly has adopted a series of resolutions since 1993 calling on states to respect the olympic truce. these resolutions have been adopted by all the member states, which is a rare occurrence at the united nations and which proves that the idea of the olympic truce is an objective for the entire world community. in july 2000, following a proposal from the greek government, through the then minister of foreign affairs, george papandreou, who was also its inspirer, we proceeded to institutionalize the olympic truce by establishing an international truce centre and an international olympic truce foundation, both of which were established by the international olympic committee and the greek government, in order to provide a forum for discussion with the aim of resolving disputes and consolidating the culture of peace through sport, the olympic ideals and the mobilization of young people in particular. it is worth noting that our colleague, mr stavros lambrinidis, was the first director of the international olympic truce centre and coordinator of this effort. the idea of the olympic truce, my dear colleagues, comes from the deep conviction that sport and sporting ideals can contribute to the creation of a peaceful and better world. it is the longest-lasting peace treaty in human history and is an extremely valuable tool for diplomacy, offering a vital opportunity for peaceful resolution of crises through dialogue and education. this achievement will be a small revolution in today's terms. i believe that we must contribute by our words and our actions to making this a reality.
member of the commission. madam president, i have both an easier and more difficult task owing to lack of time. minister pearson described many reasons why sport, education and social development are so important in our policies in the union, but also vis-à-vis third countries and with regard to our developing goals, especially the millennium goals. i fully agree with mrs martens. sport and physical education can contribute to attaining the millennium development goals. we welcome the work done by the united nations in this field, in particular the creation of a special international platform on sport and development. we also welcome the proclamation of 2005 as the international year of sport and physical education. the commission is, and will be, further involved in these activities. in particular, we will now participate in the closing conference of this initiative, which will focus precisely on the issue of sport and development. as you have mentioned already, this year was preceded by the european year of education through sport 2004, which was a very important year for our area of cooperation. i will officially report to the parliament by the end of this year on these activities and on subsequent recommendations or conclusions. i therefore believe there will be more time and space to deal with the results of this initiative. naturally, we are working on the basis of the nice treaty and the declaration annexed thereto. this limits the possibilities for the commission but, in close cooperation with member states, a lot has been done and a lot is on the rolling agenda of our sport ministers. nevertheless, when it comes to funding projects in the field of sport and development, the european union’s support for such initiatives could only be channelled through the existing programmes in the field of development cooperation. this is already the case. projects using sport as a means for development have been co-financed, for example, in the field of non-formal education, social integration or to encourage women from disadvantaged communities to participate in sport. i would like to confirm to honourable members, and especially to mr sifunakis, our unconditional support for the olympic truce. on several occasions sport has been shown to achieve results where other means have failed. the joint parade of the north and south korean delegations under the flag of the korean peninsula during the opening ceremony of the games in sydney was an outstanding and very strong example. in this context, i welcome the initiative of the european parliament in view of the winter olympics in turin in 2006, which is very near. this follows a similar initiative on the occasion of the summer olympics in athens in 2004. the european union should indeed take the lead in lending support to initiatives promoting peace around the world. let me nevertheless stress that it is for member states to take the final decision. i would like to assure you, however, that within my portfolio i will do my best to promote the olympic truce. to conclude, i would like to say that there is a strong and growing engagement in parliament and the committee on culture and education in the sports area. i congratulate you for this, because it is important for the overall development not only of sport, but also of our european spirit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, sport is a human right. with this slogan the united nations promotes sport as a means of avoiding conflict, as a factor in reducing poverty and as a means of wider development. as we approach the end of 2005, the international year of sport and physical education, it is important to take stock of what we have achieved at european and international level. the committee on development has chosen to make this assessment from the point of view of the contribution of sport to the promotion of education, health, development and peace. in the same context, on thursday 3 november 2005, 190 of the 191 member states signed, in the presence of mr kofi annan, at united nations headquarters the text of the armistice to apply for the duration of the olympic and paralympic winter games in turin in february 2006. the defence of democracy and freedom, the preservation of peace among peoples, the defence of human dignity and the protection of young sportsmen and women is the responsibility of all of us. the olympic games are therefore a great opportunity for the european union to promote these ideals in turn, by calling on all the peoples of the earth to respect the armistice during the winter games in turin. in the development sector, support for the continuing training of physical education teachers and sports editors through programmes can also have a positive impact on combating racism and xenophobia and ensuring equal opportunities for both sexes. well-known athletes like pele, ronaldo, zidane and many others, as un goodwill ambassadors, use their names to highlight the importance of fighting racism and poverty. sport could also have an economic impact if a country that invests in the physical fitness of its citizens, starting with young people in schools, can reduce health expenditure in the long run, given that, according to a united nations report, 40% of illnesses worldwide are linked to lack of exercise and poor physical condition. in conclusion, the 20th winter olympic games in turin are a great opportunity for all mankind to respect the truce and at the same time to defend, in the name of sport, health and development in the context of noble friendship. the european union will also be the great beneficiary of its efforts to consolidate peace and progress in the world. good luck, turin, with a truce and development!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, a great european intellectual of the last century said that the world had inherited three things from greece: the olympic games, philosophical thought with socrates, plato and aristotle, and the theatre with aeschylus, euripides, aristophanes and all those great greeks. i consider it more important than all the olympic games. they started in greece in 776 b.c., when we all know what the framework of organized life in europe was. so greece then imposed the armistice. he said, 'there will be no olympics if there is a war.' in the 6th century, when alexander i, king of macedonia, came to fight in person at ancient olympia, he was asked two things: first, the judges wanted to establish that he was a greek - a finding they made immediately - and, second, they called on him to stop some skirmishes on the northern side of his country, a condition that became respected. the olympic games were suspended in 393 for purely political reasons, which we all know. the olympic games began in 1896 and we saw the war stop. they didn't happen in 1940, nor in 1944, because of the war with the nazis. in 1972, we had the tragic events in munich. the other two olympic games, in los angeles and moscow, were marred by the political boycott of the teams of the two great nations. so we must protect the olympic truce. it's a sentence that comes from the depths of time. so let us ask the ioc to make certain olympic sports take place in the country of origin of the olympic games, in ancient olympia: the marathon to be held there, on the classical route, where it was first held with philippi. only then will we give the olympic games meaning again. the olympic truce must come into our lives today, we must convince the big ones not to make wars at the expense of the small ones.
mr. president, you can't play and fight at the same time. you can't send some of your young people to a sports field to fight in peace and some of your other young people to a war field to kill each other. this is the simple message of the olympic truce: the olympic truce is not a magic wand to solve wars, it's a window of opportunity. six years ago, on the occasion of the athens olympic games, greece and the international olympic committee, samarang and papandreou at the time, instituted this institution again. today, this romantic idea has become a reality. the united nations has unanimously endorsed it. no other resolution in the history of the united nations has ever had unanimous support. leaders from all over the earth have signed it. in 1994, 10,000 children in bosnia were vaccinated because there was a day of truce. was that a romantic move ? certainly not for the children. in 2004, in athens, north and south korea marched into the stadium under one flag. romantic ? only the olympics have done it. mr president, we as europeans, a european union which has emerged from the war, should likewise send a symbolic message. i hope that we will all march to the olympics with our own flag in one hand and the european flag in the other. there's no reason why that can't happen. it can be done and we have to ask for it.
mr president, we are 25 countries here, next year we will be 27, in a few months we will be 30, how can we get along if we do not respect the institutions? the institution of the european parliament, the decisions of the un, the decisions of the security council, the decisions of the european union. in any case, if we ourselves do not respect the institutions, the visitors will not respect them either. in any case, the european union, the un, parliament have recognized skopje as fyrom. so it is not possible for everyone to make personal policy here. we're making things difficult, not easy. the point is in a negotiation. when everyone, regardless of motive, plays their own politics, then we are not pushed to a right result. let's protect the institutions. if we ourselves do not respect the institutions, no citizen in europe will respect them. so if we want to have a result and a rational procedure and real democracy, there must be respect, mr president, for the institutions and i ask you to give the appropriate directive to the members of the european parliament so that they respect the institutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the new directive is necessary to take measures to protect public health and poultry farming from avian influenza, but also to prevent the virus from mutating from low to high pathogenicity and the risk of spreading to humans. the measures proposed in the directive are the right ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this will allow large poultry industries affected by low pathogenic influenza to make use of the derogations and to market infected poultry and poultry products instead of destroying them. this will spread the disease to importing countries. if certain countries want to make use of the derogations, the derogations should be granted only for their territory and they should be responsible for it. the other states must, however, be able to refuse to allow the marketing on their territory of products which are marketed by way of derogation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that the disease is contained in the vaccines.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand from the speeches that have been made that the subject cannot be exhausted in the short time available for this evening's debate. this is a matter of considerable importance for the european legal area and the latest considerations on the relationship between the court of justice and the national courts also call for careful reflection, which i shall certainly do. it is obvious that criminal law affects the unlawful behaviour of individuals and, if the matter is a matter of community competence, it is frankly difficult for parliament - the representative institution of democracy - not to take part in the formation of criminal law. this would mean that, excluding parliament, only two of the european community institutions - the council and the commission - participate in the decisionmaking process on matters of community competence. this is a fundamental justification for the court's judgment and a principle which we shall of course examine in more detail. how can a wrong legal basis be changed into a correct legal basis? there are three instruments that can be considered. as has already been said in the speeches of some honourable members - for example, president gargani - if the substance of a measure needs to be changed, this is done by withdrawing the measure itself - for example, a framework decision - and replacing it with a proposal for a new directive, both in legal terms and in substance, thus applying the codecision procedure. it is possible, however, and i do not know whether such cases already exist, that a framework decision has a legal basis which is not relevant, but its content is accepted. in this case - if parliament and the council agree on the need to amend the legal basis alone, confirming the content - i personally see a second instrument, which is not the withdrawal of the proposal and its replacement by a new initiative, but an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the council whereby, in a short time and with savings of means, an agreement is reached on the amendment of the legal basis alone and the confirmation of the substance. this is a hypothesis on which it will be very interesting to hear the opinion of parliament's legal affairs committee. there is a third way, which we have already applied a few days ago and on which we await the court's decision: the right to bring an action before the court of justice against a framework decision which contains an incorrect legal basis. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that the commission will exercise this power only when necessary. i repeat that criminal law is a serious instrument of the legal system, and that the criminal law - which, as the fathers of the law have taught us, is the last resort for punishing individual offenders - should be applied only when absolutely necessary.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission has been reviewing council regulation (eec) no 4056/86 applying eu competition rules to liner shipping for the past three years. after extensive consultation with carriers, transport users, member states and third countries, we believe that the ability that shipping lines have to fix prices and regulate capacity is no longer justified in today’s market circumstances. the current exemption is unique. no other economic sector – even those that directly compete with liners – benefits from such a generous exemption. collective price-fixing and capacity regulation are by definition hard-core restrictions to competition. these types of restriction have as their goal the artificial maintenance of high prices. participants in such a cartel may benefit. their customers most certainly do not. and nor does the wider economy. the present system can only be explained in an historic context. price-fixing by liner conferences actually results in higher prices for exporters. eu shipping lines are faring well. four out of the top five world carriers are eu based. yet our exporters repeatedly draw our attention to the need to stop allowing price-fixing. as regulators, our duty is to ensure that the rules are in tune with market conditions. the exemption from competition rules for liner conferences is a relic of the past. the last twenty years have seen considerable changes in the liner market, with an increase in cooperative arrangements between shipping lines in the form of consortia and global alliances that do not include price-fixing. this goes to show that conferences are not central to the continued good health of the maritime industry. the sector is important for the health of the economy as a whole. scheduled services in container transport account for approximately 40% of the eu-25’s external trade by sea in value terms. today, conferences are allowed to fix prices on all major shipping routes and these prices are generally assumed to act as a benchmark for prices on all shipping routes to and from the eu. in addition to the benchmark effect of the conference tariff, an average of 30% of the price of transport is made up of charges and surcharges jointly fixed by lines participating in conferences and the same levels of charges are very often applied by non-conference carriers. this means that 18% of imports and 21% of eu-25 exports are affected by carriers’ ability to jointly fix prices in the liner conference block exemption. these figures show how important it is to unleash further competitive forces in the liner sector, much in line with the lisbon agenda and in keeping with the goal to transform europe into the most competitive economy. i welcome the work carried out by parliament in reacting to the commission’s white paper of october 2004. i welcome in particular parliament’s recognition that the rules for the sector must comply with article 81. i am aware of the concern in certain quarters about the consequences of abolishing the conference block exemption. what does abolition of conferences mean? it means reliance on market mechanisms to determine price and capacity as in all other sectors of the economy. we have carried out an extensive economic impact assessment: three independent studies were commissioned. the results show that if shipping lines are no longer allowed to operate as a cartel, that is likely to result in lower transport costs to the benefit of exports throughout the eu and with a positive impact on developing countries. service quality and innovation are likely to be improved. a more competitive environment should allow eu carriers to compete and grow. smaller carriers will also have an opportunity to grow if they follow an innovative business model. no impact is foreseen on employment or in investment in new vessels. both carriers and shippers recognised that the most recent study by global insight was of a high standard and that its results were based on thorough research. we have the solid backing of the european shippers’ council representing more than 100 000 european exports from the smallest to multinationals. we have the support of unice. the liner industry itself is more divided. this is only to be expected as the industry has been insulated from competition and benefited from a legalised cartel. but even so, much of the industry now accepts that the future must be based on competition and that the days of special regimes are counted. in any event, as regulators we have to look at the larger picture. our concern is the competitiveness of eu industry. this includes shipping lines as well as their clients, our exporters. if we look at the majority of shipping lines, price-fixing is becoming less and less relevant to their business strategies as they seek more effective ways of ensuring their survival in a changing and challenging environment. i would also like to assure parliament that the commission pays great attention to the international implications of any regulation that touches the shipping industry. we are aware that liner conferences are tolerated in other jurisdictions and have engaged in bilateral contacts so as to ensure that our partners are aware of whatever changes are brought to our legislation. although the commission is firmly convinced of the benefits of putting an end to the conference system, it is equally convinced of the need to give the industry sufficient time to adapt to a fully competitive market. i intend to put a proposal to the college of commissioners for the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 4056/86, including a substantial transition period before the conference system is abolished. to conclude, the commission is committed to better regulation and to the lisbon agenda. i believe that abolishing the conference system will make the application of competition rules to the maritime sector simpler, more cost effective and fairer. abolition of the conference system will bring significant opportunities. i am confident that both the liner industry and its clients will reap the benefits.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the work he has done in this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for the work he has done in this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for the work he has done in this report. i would also like to thank the european commission for its willingness to cooperate throughout this process. i am particularly pleased about the white paper initiative. it gives us the opportunity to assess the current situation, to study the real challenges for european shipping in relation to the competitiveness of the european union and the lisbon objectives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. the point of dispute on which the honourable members' attention was focused was the transport of scheduled services between ports in different member states or between the european union and third countries, and in particular the system of conferences. i shall not go into that in detail, because the commissioner has set the framework for the discussions. the conferences have, over the years, ensured efficient services and price stability on the market, contributed to the development of european and international trade, to the good health - to quote the commissioner - of the shipping industry by giving the opportunity to participate - and this is important for us - to shipping companies of all sizes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the trend of mergers creating giant companies that can impose their terms and conditions on trade and industry is clear. the first three european companies account for 35% of the world fleet, while new maritime powers are emerging, such as china, south korea and taiwan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. my proposal is that the european commission should not propose to repeal the regulation. the commission will continue to consult the parties concerned, both shippers and shippers. to propose a revision of the existing system, in particular by excluding the possibility of directly fixing the fares at the conferences, allowing the fixing of some indicative prices, always on the basis of the case law of the court of justice of the european communities, and calculating the additional loading and dispatch charges in a transparent manner and after dialogue with the shippers. we also propose that, whatever the solution chosen, a transitional period be provided for to allow all the players to adjust. in conclusion, i would ask the european commission to take into account, in drawing up its proposal, the legal and operational systems in force in other countries, such as the united states of america, australia, canada and japan, because a departure from the european system could create destabilising trends on a global scale and lead to protectionist measures.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the shipping conferences were set up as a form of association of liner shipping companies to better cooperate in order to control the lucrative sector of sea transport fillets. today, the same business groups are calling for the regulation 4056/86 to be changed, and the european commission agrees with them, repeating the same argument, namely that these changes are necessary in order to provide users with cheaper services. but it is life itself that confirms that, through this whole process, the big business monopoly groups involved in maritime transport have been the winners and the workers the losers. today, things have changed. companies are merging or buying each other out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the concentration and concentration of capital in this sector has now reached such a stage that there are virtually no companies - measured on the fingers of one hand - controlling the transport of scheduled services. it is characteristic that a european shipping company manages 550 ships and another, asian, manages 112 ships. to talk of competition in such circumstances is only hypocrisy. as regards cabotage, although regulation 4056/86 has been superseded by regulation 3577/92, we do not agree to the inclusion of inland transport in the competition rules because, having had experience of my own country with its insular nature, the consequences are painful, both for shipbuilders and for islanders.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, indirect taxation is a key lever for draining the people of their income and is therefore unpopular. the continuing tax exemptions on capital and capital gains, under the pretext of increasing investment, are accompanied by a simultaneous increase in indirect taxes and a decrease in the income of the people. we therefore oppose all forms of indirect taxation, and in particular the value added tax system as it currently operates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. at the same time, there are voices that, under pressure from the commission, there may be a further increase. of course, for corporate profits, he's pushing for a 10 point tax cut. it is ironic, but we may eventually come to the oxymoron of seeing the fixing of a vat ceiling at 25% as a positive step, because that will ensure that it does not go any higher. the 15 to 25% rates, which do not allow for any distinction between essential or luxury goods, the uniform rates which call for the poor worker and the rich income earner to pay the same consumption tax or make toothpaste and a pleasure boat taxed at the same rate, are many times higher than the direct tax rates on capital. there are even proposals to abolish the progressivity of direct taxation and to introduce a single rate at the same level as that of indirect taxes. the inability to generalize the experimental directive, which allows a lower rate of vat to be applied to labour-intensive services, is characteristic of the single strategy of capital and of intra-capitalist contradictions. the period of application of this directive, which allows member states to apply a reduced rate of vat to certain activities in order to maintain the same number of jobs, has been extended twice. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we are fighting with the workers to protect the people's income, to abolish indirect taxes and to implement a progressive tax policy on income and capital, to stop workers, pensioners, the unemployed and the popular strata in general from paying for the damage and to stop taxes from being one of the tools for redistributing the income of workers in favour of big capital.
in writing. the eu's decisions for the wto ministerial conference are characterized by the imperialists' desire, especially the us and the eu, through the rules of international trade, to plunder the markets of developed and developing countries at the expense of the peoples and with devastating effects on the environment. the joint resolution, which was supported by the epp, social democrats, liberals and uen, endorsed the eu's aggressive policy against the people. the liberalisation of services, promoted by the bolkestein directive in the eu member states, is chosen as an international strategy within the wto by the eu to strike at collective agreements, and workers' rights in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures, such as the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of a new system of farm subsidies, the introduction of new systems of farm subsidies, the introduction of new systems of new systems of new systems of farm subsidies, the new systems of the new systems of the new systems of the oldestest. at the same time, the dominance of monopoly pharmaceutical business groups continues. the wto is an imperialist international body that serves profit and the perpetuation of the rule of capital. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy by promoting the development of the wto, by promoting the development of workers' struggles and by strengthening the anti-imperialist and anti-monopoly struggle to enable the peoples themselves to determine their future by forming agreements on the basis of mutual benefit.
in writing. joint resolution attempts, in a provocative and unacceptable manner, to slander the socialist republic of vietnam by denouncing human rights violations. the aim is to exert pressure and create a climate for the overthrow of socialism and popular conquests, so as to create the conditions for the plundering of the country. the eu's intervention strategy through the creation of a financed 'opposition' is well known. it is unbridled audacity to invoke the 30th anniversary of the great victory of the vietnamese people over american imperialism, and to dismiss the government for lack of democracy. the heroic people of vietnam won their independence with the heavy blood of millions of people murdered by imperialist interventions. where is the sensitivity to the human rights of the tens of thousands of vietnamese who were murdered, of the thousands of children born with enormous problems as a result of the use of chemical 'agent orange'? why does the otherwise sensitive eu not ask the us and the multinational monsado to pay for the victims of chemical and biological warfare? the european and american imperialists will never forgive the country that managed to crush the three great imperialist powers, the usa, the uk and france. we express our sympathy and solidarity with this heroic people-symbol in the history of mankind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the past few days european citizens have been following the reports of the cia's secret prisons in europe, of the abduction of terror suspects, of the secret flights of american planes, of torture. the illegal action of a great state like the united states of america on an independent continent like europe and the violation of human rights are an insult to europe, which gave birth to democracy and guaranteed freedom, the presumption of innocence and security three centuries ago with the declaration of the rights of man. ironically, these revelations coincide with the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. the century in which we live has many achievements to show. but for the first time, on such a large scale and with such intensity, two of the most important goods, security and freedom, are colliding in the international arena, crushing human rights between them. someone once said that democracy is when someone knocks on your door at dawn and you know it's the milkman. the european parliament, the institution representing the european citizens, has the minimum obligation to raise its voice and to safeguard the feeling of freedom and security of the citizens in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, the rapporteur, mrs fourtou, and her fellow members of the committee on petitions have worked very hard on this report, an initiative from this house in response to thousands of petitions received by the committee. i would like to thank all those involved for their work and valuable contributions to this difficult and delicate debate. this is indeed of concern to many eu citizens, as shown by the number of petitions received. two fact-finding missions were sent to valencia, which gave the committee members an opportunity to meet with representatives of all those concerned and to have a first-hand experience of the situation on the ground. you know better than anyone else the issues at stake. mrs fourtou’s report touches upon a number of important topics which have attracted the political attention of this house. the commission, within the limits of its competences, has looked into this matter mainly from an internal market perspective. in concrete terms we have analysed the public procurement dimension of the spanish law. i shall concentrate on that. the commission takes the view that the approval of integrated action programmes under the valencia land planning law involves the award of public work and service contracts. early in this process the commission considered that the valencia land planning law raised questions with respect to eu public procurement legislation. contracts were awarded without transparency or publication of notices in the eu official journal. there were no objective selection or award criteria, no appropriate price clauses, and no equality of opportunity for all those interested in the business opportunity. the commission therefore decided to launch infringement proceedings against spain on this issue and sent a letter of formal notice on 21 march 2005. since then, we have been working together with the relevant authorities to correct the defects that were detected with the application of the existing law. however, the draft new law that was submitted to my services does not correct all problems identified. in addition, the practical situation has not changed. public authorities continue to award public contracts without following appropriate tendering procedures. in view of this lack of progress, in a few days i plan to send a letter to the competent authorities in spain asking them to take appropriate measures to remedy the situation. reconciling planning requirements and procurement laws can be highly complex. however, this must not be an excuse for not applying the eu procurement rules. these rules bring benefits for public authorities, by increasing competition for public contracts and lowering the price of works, supplies and services. therefore, you can count on my commitment to ensure that eu public procurement rules are respected, both in the letter and the practice, of whatever legislation is approved in the future. mrs fourtou’s report also raised a number of other issues of concern, but as they fall outside the scope of community competence, the commission is not in a position to address them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, as a member of the second european parliament delegation which visited the spanish authorities in madrid and the regional and local authorities of the autonomous region of valencia in june 2005 and met with groups of stakeholders, i am obliged to state publicly that all actors showed an excellent willingness to cooperate with meps and showed an understanding and concern for the just but not for the illegal demands of citizens. the rapporteur, mrs fourtou, has done a great job in drawing up a report on behalf of the committee on petitions and has used her powers of deduction with great skill to retain as much of the essential information as possible, which makes sense in a report which the house is called upon to vote on in accordance with the rules of procedure and its legal obligations and not in excess of them. unfortunately, when the fourtou report was voted in the committee on petitions, amendments were included which infringe the principle of subsidiarity, as well as complaints which were not accompanied by the appropriate evidence. we therefore support the amendments by the rapporteur and her group to delete the inserted details. the amendments restore the dignity of the non-legislative text, which, of course, has no impact. we are also trying to improve the unacceptable, instructive and offensive imperative for a member state, in particular in paragraphs 6 and 11. the amendment to paragraph 11 in particular highlights the more general problem of excessive urbanisation of the mediterranean coast in general and highlights the general nature of environmental protection. as regards recital i, our amendment corrects the vagueness of the text and recalls the infringement procedure already in place under article 226 of the treaty and european legislation, as you have mentioned, commissioner, and that is why we ask for the amendments to be voted on by those who will vote for the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, i am pleased, firstly, that the council will now negotiate with us on cfsp matters at the level of ambassadors, which enhances the role of parliament in the drafting of the cfsp. secondly, i am pleased that an agreement on the 2006 budget was reached in good time. the british presidency made the right decision in this respect, as no one would tolerate two major deadlocks at the end of a presidency and mr blair wanted the 2006 budget to be finished on time so that he could have more room to negotiate the budgetary perspective. thirdly, the payment appropriations for 2006 are 1.01 compared with 1 in 2005, while the uk proposal provides for 0.98 for the seven-year period 2007-13. we have achieved more than the british presidency anticipates for the next seven years, but we have no reason to celebrate. we cannot achieve european integration with so little money. i would like to reply to the minister that he does not agree with what he said here today, that the allegedly necessary financing of category 3 and the legal use of the flexibility instrument are 'exceptional events'. i am afraid that the minister should not have said that in his speech, because we are far from achieving more integration with less money, and that is necessary. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to thank parliament for the debate today, and i congratulate once more the whole parliament negotiating team. with the result that was negotiated in this political environment, in which we all participated, we have achieved the optimum possible outcome. i wish parliament a successful vote on thursday.
the agenda provides for the follow-up to the commission's statement on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2006.
vice-présidente de la commission. mr president, first i want to thank the representatives of the political parties for their comments and reactions today. this is the second time the plenary sitting of the european parliament has considered the commission’s 2006 work programme, and i hope that both sides will become a bit wiser as a result of this procedure. let me say a few words about the process. i think it is worth recalling that the current commission sets its objectives over a five-year period, and a single annual work programme cannot encompass everything that we wish to achieve under our mandate. some things will need to be reserved for inclusion in the work programmes in 2007 and beyond. i remind members that it is always possible to make an adjustment to the work programme in the mid-term review. this so-called catalogue of additional items, which has been and will be communicated regularly to the european parliament, contains information on issues of particular concern to members, which some of you have mentioned today, that are not necessarily addressed in the priority list. the commission has greatly appreciated the new process of involving committees in identifying priorities and discussing the commission’s work programme. it is now taking shape in a more serious way, so that we get into the political priorities and have a real political discussion, which will be very helpful in the future. in response to mr swoboda’s remarks, the commission will discuss the review of the sustainable development strategy in its meeting this afternoon. this represents an integrated approach to the objectives of economic prosperity, environmental standards and social cohesion. this approach is built on the idea that these policy areas are mutually supportive. we continue to pay full attention to social issues. the work programme includes a green paper on the evolution of labour law, which is expected to launch a wide debate, in which the eu institutions, member states, social partners and experts will participate. the aim is to establish conclusions about the main trends in the recent evolution of labour law, both at eu and national level. it will also identify the most crucial and urgent issues to be addressed. a communication on social services of general interest is still planned for 2006. i also underline that the commission, by giving such priority to the renewed lisbon strategy, shows a strong commitment to a europe of solidarity, accompanied by prosperity and employment. we will continue to put every effort into an effective and credible action by member states and all stakeholders. without a collective effort, the strategy on growth and jobs cannot succeed. the credibility of our work depends on detailed preparation, including the necessary consultation of stakeholders and the carrying-out of impact assessments, which i know is also of interest to the european parliament. i would also like to underline the importance of the commission’s dialogue with the other institutions during the preparation of the 2006 work programme. the many contacts we have had with the european parliament in the context of the new framework agreement have provided a valuable insight into parliament’s expectations of the commission for the coming year. when the work programme was being prepared, parliament presented the commission with an important list of priorities. we have also had very constructive contact with the conference of presidents in the context of implementing plan d. i know that both our institutions are committed to realising its objectives. i take note of the comments you have made today on the commission’s 2006 work programme. the commission will examine your resolution with great interest and respond accordingly. let me again mention my appreciation of the fruitful cooperation we have had in 2005. i look forward to building on it in 2006 to make sure that our work programme is implemented with determination and success. i also thank you for the comments on the eea report, which i was pleased to be able to present. we know the content of that report very well and it has to be taken into account. i think that, when it comes to combating climate change, the commission is showing leadership on the world scene. i do not see any other partner today playing the same role. of course, we will continue to strive to ensure the commission upholds this important role. we will have to lead the way on this particular issue as well. (applause)
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 12.05 p.m.) )
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between us and the distinguished gentlemen in the front seat: they are chosen by their governments to serve the authority. you are elected by the people to defend the republic. what do the chosen come to ask of us the chosen? to bind our peoples, to prevent the right of free speech! that's what they want! are we going to do it? imagine if the technology had been developed in 1940 and this directive had been in hitler's hands! he would have killed far more than the 6 million jews. imagine if the stalinist regime had it in its hands! maybe he was still in the stuff. the european parliament has been asked to do this for a long time. we must not allow it! they call us "the counterterrorism charity"! so bin laden and his ilk will use a pay phone, get prepaid cards, and if they want to use the internet, they'll go to an internet cafe to do it. what are they telling us? and who is the final recipient? the final recipient will be the cia. you're going to give the people of europe to the cia? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. long live the freedom!
mr president, the subject we are discussing today is one of the most difficult and important, because we are called upon to strike a balance between the good of individual freedom and the good of public security. i consider it a great success, thanks to the efforts of parliament, the commission and the council, that the original plan has been considerably improved. it leaves member states wide latitude, first, to determine within the 6-24 month period the retention period of the data, second, to determine the offences for which the data will be used and, third, to allow the prosecution authorities access to the data, which requires prior judicial authorisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not, however, in a position to vote in favour of this because i believe that these measures will in practice prove to be completely ineffective. it is certain that criminals will easily bypass them or find other ways of communicating, and thus achieve their criminal goals, and the measures will remain. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection board, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection supervisor and the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. finally, as the european data protection supervisor also states in his opinion, the technical difficulties in implementing the measure are insurmountable, so i cannot give a positive vote.
madam president, the proposal for a directive under discussion reveals in a characteristic and cynical way, i would say, the character of the european union itself, which does not hesitate to abolish, i repeat, to abolish and not to restrict, as you say, individual and democratic rights that have been secured as a result of the struggles of the peoples. in this case, freedom of communication and the protection of personal data and privacy are being abolished, i repeat, abolished. the core of communications secrecy is being removed. there's a law enforcement agency that monitors everything. everyone is under surveillance, and there are even criminal and administrative sanctions on companies that don't comply with surveillance. the scope of surveillance includes every element of communication, and the directive is so bold that it calls on those who are being monitored to pay for the cost of monitoring! the directive also violates constitutional provisions, such as the constitution of greece, and provisions of international conventions, and it is clear that it opens the way to the abolition of individual rights and freedoms. we reject the draft directive, which cannot be improved.
madam president, today's compromise removes all the protections that the civil liberties committee had imposed and is a monument to non-harmonisation. the council is reconciling the now usual pretext of fighting terrorism with only one thing: the obligation to retain information which is now voluntarily retained in the hope that it will help to catch certain criminals. at the same time it refuses to provide anything tangible to protect millions of innocent citizens and their rights. so while mr clarke is talking about harmonisation, his proposal leaves intact the exceptions in paragraph 15 (1) of the previous directive. the result is that the council gives the member states the go-ahead to retain whatever data they wish, for whatever purposes they decide and for as long as they deem appropriate. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. my party, pasok, will vote against. president-in-office, on a personal note, it has been a great pleasure to work with you, both professionally and personally. this is not personal, this is political. what we have in the end is a proposal with a roar for police access and with a whimper for the protection of fundamental rights. it is shame that we missed this opportunity.
madam president, the future of the european union as a democratic community of principles and values is linked to the consistent stance of the institutions and the member states in defending human rights, the rights of minorities, democratic freedoms. the european union must, first, take initiatives to create a new effective institutional framework for the defence of human rights within the un. secondly, to give high priority in its relations with third countries to the ratification and implementation of all international treaties for the protection of human rights and against the prohibition of torture. third, to contribute to the shaping of an open and democratic global system of governance of the information society and to tackle the digital divide, which creates new relationships of dependence and hegemony between developed and developing countries. fourthly, to apply, without discrimination and in accordance with the wishes of the member states, all cooperation and association agreements and to implement the mechanisms provided for.
mr president, commissioner, we are very pleased with today's commission communication, but we note that this important matter was put on the agenda of the house at the last moment, without the committee on culture having been informed in advance of the specific proposals you have announced. we also welcome the fact that the proposed directive mainly concerns audiovisual content on television. i would like to make a few points. the revision of the directive and the extension of its scope to non-linear media should not result in the relaxation of its regulatory provisions. the principle of cultural diversity and pluralism must be safeguarded, regardless of the medium by which audiovisual content is transmitted. the respect of quotas for european works and works by independent producers must remain at the heart of the directive. the provisions of the directive on advertising and the protection of minors need to be strengthened. it is said that the status quo remains. it is not possible to promote the interests of industry at the expense of viewer rights and the quality of television, nor to expect the market to regulate these important issues on its own. the title "audiovisual without borders" is correct. in short, we need a directive which will provide european television with the necessary balance between quality and audience.
member of the commission. mr president, i understand the message from honourable members, but i strongly disagree that we have not answered the question; indeed, we have. if the answer is not convenient for the honourable member, that is something else, but i have answered and i will answer again. the premier league sells rights to its matches to media operators throughout the world, including a large number of eu countries. premier league football is very popular, for example, in ireland, and the premier league has changed its rights policies as regards ireland as a result of the commission’s intervention. to put it plainly, there is a clear cross-border element, which the commission was well placed to address when the case began in 2002. whether there are a couple of lawyers or far more than a couple, that is up to them; we are willing and able to deal with this case and have had some success, for we have solved a problem in which competition was harmed.
mr president, does the commission agree that major international sporting events should be broadcast exclusively by pay-tv networks, in other words, pay-per-view? do you wonder if all citizens have this possibility, although some international federations have complied with it and leave the broadcasting of these international events free? why are you not taking action against the member states of the european union which for almost 12 years have not sent in, as they should have done, the list of sports which must be shown on free television?
member of the commission. only 50% of the funds earmarked have been spent so far under the ignalina international decommissioning support fund. this is not to say that the remaining funds allocated to this important aid programme will not be disbursed. as already stated, the ebrd fund covers projects that are realised over a long period. the funds are disbursed as necessary and the commission will follow the implementation of the use of community money, because the commission entrusts its contribution to the care of the ebrd, an internationally recognised and respected financial institution. commission departments chair the assemblies of contributors, at which the major financial decisions are made, and periodically seek additional information from the ebrd and reserve the right to audit as necessary. i believe that all commitments from the ebrd side will be fulfilled.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i am happy to answer the first question from mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou. several actions undertaken by the commission in the field of transport and energy demonstrate the importance attached to people with special needs. in the public service sector, the commission has committed itself to creating appropriate legal bases so that member states can guarantee users of quality transport services at affordable prices. in 2005, the commission stepped up its efforts by defining the basic principles of its passenger rights policy. the commission has asked for equal treatment for passengers with reduced mobility! as regards rail passenger rights, it proposed a regulation which is currently being negotiated in the european parliament and the council, which reached political agreement on 5 december. the proposed legislation requires, for example, that the right to equitable access to rail services and to information on accessibility conditions be respected. it obliges railway companies and station managers to provide free assistance to passengers with reduced mobility, both in stations and on board trains. at the same time, the commission is responsible for the accessibility of trains and stations. in the context of the implementation of the directive on the interoperability of the rail system, the commission is developing a technical specification to improve the accessibility of public areas of railway infrastructure for persons with reduced mobility. particular attention was paid to the problem of the platform-train interface and the requirements for evacuation in the event of danger. however, as regards the specific transport needs expressed by citizens, member states could go beyond community legislation. as regards public services, community legislation lays down detailed rules on possible public intervention. the introduction of a system of social fares for certain categories of passengers, for example large families, remains the responsibility of the member states. all such initiatives are supported by the european union's strategy to improve the active integration of disabled people. the priority theme for the second phase of the 2006-2007 action plan is the promotion of accessibility of transport services and non-discrimination, in line with the recently adopted commission communication on the situation of persons with disabilities in the enlarged european union. that, madam member, is the answer i wanted to give you.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for the great deal of information you have given and i congratulate you on the programme you have already decided on. i would also like to ask you whether children, young people and people of small stature in general are among those who should be specifically protected by the legislation proposed by the commission.
member of the commission. the commission is aware that turkey has blocked applications by the republic of cyprus for membership of a number of international organisations, as was clearly mentioned in the 2005 progress report on turkey, which we published in november. the commission fully shares the position set out in the document defining the framework for accession negotiations, in other words the negotiating mandate of the union that turkey should progressively align positions within international organisations with those of the eu, including in relation to membership of all member states in relevant organisations. this position is reflected in the commission’s proposal for a revised accession partnership with turkey, in which one of the short-term priorities is that turkey should ‘progressively align policies towards third countries and positions within international organisations with those of the eu and its member states, including in relation to the membership by all eu member states of relevant organisations and arrangements such as wassenaar. the commission will use all the instruments at its disposal, in particular the negotiating framework and the association agreement, as well as the accession partnership in order to ensure that turkey aligns progressively with the community acquis also in this regard. i remind you that this was one of the key issues that was discussed on 3 october when the decision on the opening of the accession negotiations with turkey was taken. i would also like to point out that the eu presidency has just made a demarche to turkey concerning the cyprus application for membership in the wassenaar agreement.
mr president, i should like to thank commissioner rehn in particular for his reply. i would like to point out, however, that we are all aware of the institutional framework which now governs turkey's relations with the european union. the question is how turkey will be pressured to apply and respect the acquis communautaire and european legality. the commissioner, speaking on 23 november in the joint parliamentary committee between the european union and turkey, said: 'the time for celebration is over, now comes the time for delivery'. what is this "delivery", commissioner? will the commission propose to trigger the suspension clause if turkey continues to disregard the acquis communautaire and is not bound by paragraph 7 of the negotiating framework for the next year, the next two years?
madam president, i think parliament is aware of the commission's intention to reduce and better target state aid, with an obvious emphasis on the poorest regions of the european union. however, these state aid restrictions should be limited. a large and parallel reduction in the funds received by the regions through the structural funds on the one hand and state aid on the other risks being disastrous for their substantial development. obviously one such example is, as already pointed out, the regions which fall victim to statistics and on the one hand see aid through the structural funds being reduced due to enlargement and on the other hand see the european commission saying 'you can possibly get state aid until 2009 but from 2009 onwards there is a problem'. that's not fair! the koterec report has been repeatedly mentioned by parliament. it is the third time that he has made such a point and it must be taken into account by the commission. the problem of islands, particularly in relation to the additional transport costs for island regions, must also be tackled. i have examples from greece, which show that the cost of transport on the islands is three times as much as if we had to travel the same distance on land. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the community's financial resources are being used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
mr president, i think that if someone wanted to give a title to the views expressed by certain member states in the council, he would say that the title is 'how to get more europe with less money'. that, in my view, is simply not possible. i think there are many contradictions in the discussions in the council and in the proposals of the british presidency. in this debate there is a great contradiction between the words and the ambitions on the one hand and the fact that we give the community budget only 2.5% of public expenditure in the 25 member states on the other. the commission has also been very active in the debate on the future of the community, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but they forget what these same member states, the net contributors, get through the single market and through the structural funds, because a substantial part of the budget of the structural funds goes back to these member states in various ways that are known and that i do not need to analyse. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the common agricultural policy is ever to be revised, i suggest to the british presidency that we start with the large farmers, who also receive the bulk of the aid, and not with the poor farmers of the south, if we want the common agricultural policy to have a social content. in any event, as coordinator of the european people's party on cohesion policy, i would like to say that parliament has expressed its views. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and spirits is a very good one. parliament will not be silent; the commission is not prepared to accept any agreement in the council, any decision taken next week. we are here to fight to the end for cohesion policy, mr president, and we will exercise all our rights. (applause from the centre and the right)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i always enjoy these debates. on the basis of this morning’s debate, i shall miss them! whether you will miss the british presidency is perhaps a different judgement altogether, given the comments i have listened to during the last hour-and-a-half! i will not be able to address every single point or charge that has been put to me in the course of the last couple of hours, but i will endeavour to answer some of the specific points that have been put to me by honourable members. mr poettering began the debate with what i judged a rather unworthy charge that i, and the presidency, had got out of our beds too late. if 4.30 a.m. is judged to be too late, then i apologise unreservedly to this house! in the last 24 hours, more seriously, not only – as you would expect – have i met with our prime minister, our chancellor of the exchequer and our foreign minister as we prepare our revised proposals, but i have also met with the heads of mission in london of every one of the other 24 member states of the european union. so i will happily discuss how late we are working and how early we get up, as we endeavour to secure the deal that we believe is necessary for europe’s future this weekend. as to the issue that you raised, mr president, i can assure you that there was no discourtesy intended, nor is any intended now, in relation to the timing of the revised proposals being tabled by the european presidency later today – not least given the timing of this important debate. first, these will not be wholly new proposals but will simply be revised proposals, the principles of which i set out in my introductory remarks. secondly, the charge has been levelled that our prime minister is somehow not available for scrutiny on this, the second negotiating box. our prime minister will be coming to strasbourg tomorrow to hold further discussions with the conference of presidents. thirdly, notwithstanding the criticism that has been directed toward the british presidency in the course of this debate, i would respectfully reply that, as mr titley generously acknowledged, criticism of the presidency’s engagement with this parliament is surely not something that deserves to be articulated by honourable members. my visit today is one of more than 80 visits by british ministers in the course of the british presidency. mr schulz was brave enough to acknowledge our friendship before this house, so let me further imperil his reputation by saying that i also like and admire him. let me return the candour with which he spoke to me directly. mr schulz, you discussed whether a cut on a rise was still a rise, and spoke of what you described as ‘the new arithmetic’. i should like to be clear that in relation to both the commission’s proposals and the luxembourg presidency proposals, an unfunded offer is no offer at all. we need a deal that commands the support, not simply of those who spend the money, but also of those who contribute the money. as to the titanic, i accept that trying to secure agreement amongst 25 member states of this union does involve a ‘titanic’ challenge, but i believe that it can end in agreement rather than tragedy. in only a few days’ time we will all find out. to mr watson, who said that no deal is better than a bad deal, i certainly find myself on common ground on that particular issue. although i admire his erudition, his critique of how budgeting should work did rather call to my mind that it perhaps accounts for why the liberals have now been out of power in the united kingdom since 1929. mr cohn-bendit spoke of a vacuum of achievements during the british presidency. perhaps he chose to ignore the development agenda, of which a number of honourable members have spoken in this debate today. also, given his concern for the environment, i am surprised that he did not pay due tribute to the work of margaret beckett, on behalf of the european union, in persevering to secure agreement during what i judge to have been a hugely significant conference on climate change in montreal, just last week. mr farage began his speech by accusing my foreign office officials behind me as being both able and ‘treacherous’. i was on the point of jumping to their defence and refuting this allegation, before one of them asked me to say that yes, that was entirely true! we had the ghosts of christmas past and robin hood bumping into the sheriff of nottingham in mr farage’s contribution. suffice to say, the kindest thing i can find to say about that particular speech is rather than being a convincing case, it turned into more of a fairy tale. mr kirkhope, who, perhaps in a sign of disrespect to the presidency, has now left the chamber – i wonder whether he has returned to his bed rather than got up from it – made perhaps one of his final appearances as part of the epp before this chamber. something of a swansong before being banished to new irrelevance by the incoming leader of the conservative party! he suggested that the presidency would not be able to afford his fees, if he was representing us. i do not know the level of the charge-out rates being sought by the present leader of the conservative party in the european parliament, but i sincerely hope it is not very much, on the basis of the speech we heard this morning! (applause from the left) mr voggenhuber did not hold back and accused us of being surrounded by ruins at this stage in our presidency. he then went on to follow the charge by suggesting that our presidency proposals were framed by national egotism. this is a serious point, and i think it deserves a serious reply. there is absolutely no doubt in my mind that had the british presidency sought to succumb to national egotism, it would have been far easier domestically for the united kingdom and for the british government to assume an approach which continued to advocate immediate and fundamental change, for example to the common agricultural policy and the wider european union budget. it has been a far more challenging route to walk to suggest that, notwithstanding our continuing desire to see more fundamental change in the union, that there should be a clear recognition of the urgent need to find the resources to fund the costs of enlargement, and that explains the basis of the proposals that we tabled initially last week and the revised proposals that we will table later today. mrs de brún spoke of the need for further work to secure the peace process in northern ireland, and on that specific point i listened very carefully to her in relation to the proposals that, in turn, we shall make. let me deal, finally and briefly, with the issue of transparency which was taken up by mr titley. i was invited to inform honourable members as to the further progress during the presidency. i can assure this house, not least on the basis of the strength of opinions articulated within this chamber on the matter, that we are making continuing efforts to increase the transparency of the council. we tabled an options paper last month. there are proposals that have now been discussed both in coreper i and coreper ii, and we continue to hope that the council will adopt conclusions this month on the important matter of transparency. however, most honourable members directed their interventions towards the important issue of future financing. let those who criticise our proposals today pause, if only momentarily, to reflect on what we may all lose, but particularly the new member states, about whom a number of honourable members have spoken. speaking for just a second as a united kingdom minister rather than solely on behalf of the presidency, let me underline that we are willing to pay our fair share of the budget but not more than our fair share. back in june, we were asked to make a net contribution of an extra eur 20 billion or more above and beyond the eur 50 billion we were already going to pay, or, to put it another way, to make a net contribution about a third more than france as a share of gross national income. so let me be crystal clear on this point: that was not fair then and it is not fair now. we did not accept it then and we will not accept it this week or, indeed, next year. instead, for the first time in 30 years of our membership of this european union – 30 years, in which we have always been a net contributor to the union – and after years of paying far more than countries of similar levels of prosperity, we intend to make a contribution roughly in parity with similar-sized countries, like france and italy. we believe that is transparently and eminently fair. others have alluded, at least briefly, in this important debate to this week’s other major event: the wto ministerial meeting taking place presently in hong kong. a globally oriented europe is also one that takes seriously its responsibilities to tackle global poverty, and i once again pay due tribute to a number of honourable members who have brought this to our attention this morning. following its decisions earlier this year effectively to double the level of development assistance by 2010, this union needs to take the lead in securing a truly ambitious conclusion to the current wto trade round. we have in our hands the potential to create a fairer trading global system that will allow hundreds of millions to lift themselves out of poverty. this is no zero-sum game. a fairer global trade system can also act as a spur to the reforms that europe needs if it is to enhance its competitiveness and deliver on its promises of social justice. we need an outcome to the round, whether in hong kong or indeed in the months and years to follow, that is, therefore, pro-poor in the world and pro-jobs in europe. let me finish my contribution to today’s debate, however, by casting our minds back to july when we took over the presidency. a number of honourable members have referred to the speech that our prime minister made at that time. but let us remember also the context of that speech coming, as it did, soon after the twin rejection of the european constitution in france and in the netherlands. there has been a lot of debate as to the exact significance of those two votes. what, if anything, was wrong with the constitutional draft itself? what were the citizens of europe telling us about the way in which they wanted the european union to be run? i would agree with the commentator who said that what we saw in june was the rejection not just of the text but of the context. people in france and in the netherlands did not have deep-seated objections to a particular subparagraph or clause of the draft constitution. rather the basic question, which should still be in our minds today and in our minds during this european council, which these european citizens were asking, is what did the european union deliver for them? they were not sure enough about the value added to their lives. they did not know enough about the decisions it made and they had not got the trust in europe’s politicians to steer the right course. people were uncertain about the broader forces of global change, about the economic challenges facing europe and what they might mean for them and for their families. who can blame them at a time when one in ten european citizens today are out of work, in which one in twenty are long-term unemployed? it is the duty of those who believe fundamentally in social justice to ask how the european union can be part of a solution to that challenge. the answer to people’s justifiable concerns about change is not, i would argue, to turn inwards, retreating into a politics of anxiety and, indeed, an economics of protectionism. that way offers no solution and, i would argue, no hope. if we are to meet the challenges of today’s world, we must turn outwards with optimism and determination and become a globally oriented europe. that is what will inspire us in the days ahead. i can assure you that i will, in turn, pass back the comments that i have received in the course of this morning’s debate to our prime minister and to other members of our government ahead of his visit here to strasbourg tomorrow. i can assure you of our best endeavours in the critical days and hours that lie ahead. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address three points in my final speech. firstly, on a very important subject, development, and on what is being announced as an agreement in the european council on the development policy and development aid of the european union. secondly, an analysis of the conclusions of this debate and, thirdly, i would like to address myself specifically to the british presidency. on development, i would like to correct what the distinguished member of this house, mr martinez martinez, said. i spoke about this in my opening speech and i made it very clear, saying that i was very proud that the commission had made a contribution to making this consensus on development aid policy possible now - the consensus that we can say exists between the commission, parliament and the council - and i went even further: that the commission will fulfil its role of checking and informing the european public whether member states are actually respecting the commitments they have made themselves in the field of development aid. i therefore want to make very clear our commitment to an ambitious policy of development aid; our responsibility as the european commission in pursuing this policy and our willingness to continue to work with this parliament and the council so that the european union can strengthen its leading position in world aid to the countries most in need of our solidarity. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the sometimes lively proposals made by the speakers during this sitting, there is in fact a strong feeling of unease which has been expressed on the threshold of a date of very great importance for the union. in the case of the united states, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
colleagues, please be quiet. our debate is not yet over.
in writing. i have opposed the proposal for a directive on data retention because, despite the improvements to the original proposal by the british presidency, following the efforts made by members of parliament, i still believe that these measures alone will prove ineffective in practice. and yet they open a great crack in personal freedoms, with painful consequences. my guide is always the monumental phrase of the us president benjamin franklin in 1759: "they that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither".
mr president, we know for a fact that: (a) the us has in the past committed unlawful torture and inhuman treatment of detainees, such as in abu ghraib; (b) the president of the united states has threatened to veto the amendment of the united states senate prohibiting the torture of prisoners outside the borders of america; - mr alexander, why did you not mention this, instead of just applauding mrs reis's statements? - the american congress, to its credit, often investigates such complaints. we don't know for sure: (a) whether the usa or european countries maintain or have maintained secret prisons and where; (b) whether the united states has abducted european citizens or others from european territory for the purpose of transporting, interrogating and possibly torturing them; (c) whether european governments or authorities have condoned or participated in such illegal activities. the question is therefore what the european parliament will do now. will he investigate this too or wait for others? if we do not act immediately, then the elected representatives of our peoples will end up watching the revelations of the international press and reacting as mere commentators on the events. i therefore support the immediate establishment of a parliamentary committee, but apart from the prison issues, mr president, i believe you should turn your attention to a broader issue, which is at the root of all the ills of today: the relationship between the fight against terrorism and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is a fact that romania and bulgaria have made considerable progress in integrating and implementing the acquis communautaire, thanks to the consistent support for their enlargement strategy from the european union. we welcome all these changes and reforms in the political, economic and social spheres. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of environmental protection, the question of external border control, the question of the fight against organised crime, nuclear safety and food safety are also issues of concern and interest to european citizens. the european union, for its part, must remain firm in its decisions on the two countries, decisions which must not be taken lightly. this would be a mistake for both countries and for the european union. the european commission, for its part, must help in the context of the pre-accession strategy and in the context of existing programmes for the transfer of community know-how. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the first is the question of bulgaria's obligation to respect the provisions of the accession act on the safety of the nuclear power station in kosloduy. the second, for romania, is the major humanitarian problem created by the adoption of children. i hope and believe that the romanian authorities, in compliance with international law and with romanian law, will solve this humanitarian problem affecting foster parents in europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would also agree with those in this chamber who have stressed that only the accession of bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007 will complete the fifth enlargement. it's important to remember that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are still some unfinished business, but the fact that they have achieved what they have achieved shows the political will in both these countries to fulfil the commitments they have made to the european union, to participate fully and actively in the european family. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first concerns the koslodui nuclear power station. i think that bulgaria should honour the commitment it made when it signed the accession treaty and close units 3 and 4. at the same time, however, i believe that bulgaria needs help to fill the energy gap that will be created, such help as is being given to slovakia, as i am informed, so that it too can fulfil its obligations in the field of nuclear energy. the second point concerns bulgaria's strategic position on the external borders of the european union. i think it is very important, precisely because we are going to have a new border with bulgaria, that checks be coordinated to prevent and combat organised crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. in response, i am grateful to the honourable member for having rushed to the chamber to ask the question. let me seek to assure him that we came very close to being able to find that agreement which secured the objectives that i described last week. that is what gives me cautious optimism that we will, in time, be able to find a way forward in relation to the question that he put to me. our proposals, tabled for that discussion last week, marked a serious attempt to meet practical objections on the opt-out and reflected extensive consultation with member states. no doubt there will now be further opportunities for discussions within the council to see whether we can finally reach the consensus that has so far eluded us.
president-in-office of the council. i hope i do not disappoint the honourable member, who has now joined us in the chamber, with the answer that i can offer, but the council has received no proposals from the commission on this subject and it therefore has not addressed the issue.
madam president, i thank the minister for his reply, but i would like to ask whether any such measures for growth, job creation or mobility, which we will be celebrating in 2006, are included in future planning. the preparations should have been made in 2005.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done on her report. it is well known that women in coastal fishing are at a disadvantage because their work in this sector is regarded as supplementary employment and not as a profession. what is lacking is the recognition of their work, both legally and socially. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. equal pay, pension rights, social security, access to health care. we need to step up efforts to implement policies that support initiatives to create networks of women throughout the european union and especially in remote island areas. the development of these networks should not be based solely on volunteering or on individual actions. these networks should be set up to strengthen their role in the regions in which they operate and to provide advice and advice to the regional councils. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this area and that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is fully applied in the fisheries sector. i believe that the time has come for a courageous decision to recognise the contribution of women to the development of fisheries and economic life in general. let us not treat women's networks only with sympathy and understanding! let us make them an important instrument to promote fisheries policy, sustainable development, respect for the environment, ecosystems and people!
mr president, all the previous speakers have recognized the need to preserve fishing as an activity not only with an economic but also with a social and, i would say, cultural content. the traditional role of women in fisheries, and the various modern forms of participation in the labour market by women from fishing areas, have certainly been decisively strengthened since the 2003 commission conference and the start of networking for this particular category of workers. we cannot but congratulate the initiative of the committee on fisheries and in particular the very humble mrs attwooll for drawing up the report. i am, however, as the shadow rapporteur for my party on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, grateful to her for including most of the comments of my committee. we can only hope that the commission will help to complete a pan-european network of women fishermen at the next conference in 2006. not only the european fisheries fund but also the structural funds and other programmes such as femme and leader can become tools for specific actions, alongside educational and vocational skills development, the development of adaptability, research programmes on the impact of restructuring of the fishing and agricultural industries, innovation in production, the promotion of environmentally sensitive and biodiversity-friendly consumption. these actions are essential to ensure that young people remain in fishing areas, so that they can maintain the traditions and long-standing practices that are valuable with new technology and can add value to the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current situation. the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in self-employment, including in agriculture, and the protection of maternity are important areas, and the gender institute will have a role to play by conducting specific research on the subject.
