we are living in a strange time in the history of a united europe. in the recent history, in the half-history we have lived together, it is very difficult to draw a line, but we have lived together events, we have organized and participated in events that give us the opportunity to draw a clear line and say that we have entered a new era. after all, the united states of europe today has 25 member countries. and we know that expansion is not a closed process. the new face of a united europe is becoming more and more marked, and in order to prevent these marked features from becoming blurred, from becoming uncertain, we have a constitution, and that is what this motion for a resolution is about. the constitution demonstrates that a united europe is legally able and ready to meet the requirements of enlarged membership. this constitution will expand the possibilities for europe to become a true people's europe. the role of the directly elected parliament has increased, and we believe that the decisions of the european parliament and the national parliaments can and will build on each other. this would allow the scope of community-wide standards, particularly in the social field, to be extended over a longer period. hungary ratified the constitution at the end of last year. yet this document we are discussing today is also very important to us. the insurance lady was referring to suspicions of strange wiretaps. i am convinced that we are not hiding anything, that we have nothing to hide, but that our information is being forced upon european political systems and european citizens. the european parliament has always been a democratic body. building a social europe, strengthening solidarity and social inclusion in the process known as lisbon, is only possible if we know the norms of the constitution, if we are aware of the social norms of the constitution, but we also know that we must mobilise new and new guarantees alongside the norms. some people have said that the constitution is the fundamental law for us too, but it is not a final text carved in stone. let me mention two themes that also present us with a challenge for the future. one of the challenges of a multicultural europe is that we do not want to do this against islam, but in the knowledge that our europe is secular and secular. the other is minority affairs. the hungarian parliament, in its ratification debate, urged the strengthening of minority rights in community legislation. i believe that the force against the threat to minorities, against the uncertainty of the assertion of national identity, is really guaranteed in the european citizenship of all of us. let us live the opportunities of european citizenship.
the first joint creation of a reunited europe could be the constitutional text we are debating here today. it is also a matter for the new member states, because we - and i - have been involved in the work of the convention, in the preparation of the constitution, for a year and a half. it is perhaps no coincidence that two new member states, lithuania and hungary, were among the first to ratify the text of the constitution. the hungarian parliament even added an amendment to this constitution: we were pleased to note that the rights of minorities were included in the basic principles of the constitution. this is an important principle, because europe is also a europe of minorities, and everyone in europe is also a minority. at the same time, we consider it important that the rights of minorities should be exercised collectively and that the interpretation of the constitution should also cover this. so we're happy about that. i am less pleased, however, that many people here in the european parliament and in the european public have regarded as an attack the historical fact that christianity has contributed to the common construction of europe, to the creation of today's europe. no one wanted to destroy secular europe with this, but alongside humanism, the enlightenment and other common european ideas, we simply wanted to mention in the preface that christianity has contributed to this common europe - to what we are today. of course, i am glad that the constitution creates the possibility of an institutional dialogue between the churches and the european union, and this is very important for the churches. this is true even if there are many more to attack.
as the head of the hungarian socialist delegation and the chairman of the intergroup on historical national minorities, regional languages and constitutional regions, i welcome the constitutional treaty! in many respects, this constitutional treaty is historic. in one respect, it is certainly for national minorities: for the first time in the history of the union, the rights of national minorities have become part of the acquis communautaire. finally, the european union can begin to develop a functioning system for the protection of minorities. as a hungarian socialist, i am particularly proud that the paragraph on minorities was initiated by my government. if the constitutional treaty enters into force, it will be a great celebration for the tens of millions of national minorities living in europe. i speak as the representative of a country where ten percent of the population is a minority, where one third of the people - the cultural nation - live outside the country. as a member of the european parliament, i had the right to say in the hungarian national assembly's ratification debate that now every country, including hungary, will have two constitutions. if one of the constitutions is richer, it should be taken into account. we must always be careful to take it as a basis which gives more rights to the citizens of our country, to the citizens of europe. in this sense, all countries will be much richer. in the area of minorities, the hungarian constitution is much richer than the european constitutional treaty, since it contains collective rights, recognizes national minorities as a factor in state formation and, in addition to equal treatment, considers preferential treatment, positive discrimination and the establishment of self-government by minorities at all levels to be very important for minorities.
strengthening transatlantic relations is not only necessary, but now possible. this relationship cannot be based on self-interested rivalry, but only on shared interests and values. an equal partnership is needed, but it also requires a strong, united and capable europe. without this, we cannot reap the benefits of transatlantic relations. we have differences of opinion, conflicts of interest, we don't have to deny them. but we must see that our interests converge on the most important issues, the war on terrorism, the fight against nuclear proliferation, the doha process, but also on the issue of climate change. i think this is a chance to renew our relationship. president bush's upcoming visit to the united states will strengthen that opportunity, but we must do everything we can to ensure that it does not go unnoticed.
on behalf of my group, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the european commission has started work shortly after its election. the strategy paper that has just been produced clearly shows that the commission is not only working but also listening to the european parliament. i would remind the honourable members and the members of the commission that last december this house adopted a resolution setting out the commission's basic strategic objectives, that is, the objectives which the european parliament would like to see in the commission. the commission's compliance with these objectives is clear. we have said that we want a competitive and dynamic europe, and the commission is also talking about competitiveness, prosperity and job creation. we talked about cohesion and consolidation of european enlargement, solidarity, and the commission is also talking about these issues. we talked about wanting a europe that was safe for european citizens. these objectives are clearly set out in the commission's document just published and in the president's speech. this is true even if meps do not always make the commission's job easy. you will recall that the resolution of december was signed by the major parliamentary parties at the time, but at the last moment our socialist colleagues backed down. but now, before the commission and parliament meet, we have heard loud press statements from the socialists about what they want from the commission. interestingly, they also expected elements that were not signed or voted on at the last strasbourg meeting. that is why i am glad that this material is also for the satisfaction of socialists, even if they would like to see these questions more clearly. however, i would like to draw the attention of the socialist group and indeed of all the groups that job creation is not a socialist, liberal, populist or green objective, but is in the interest of the european citizens. this is what we work for, what we fight for. perhaps it is not surprising that, as a representative of a new member state, i should also say that one of the important dimensions of solidarity in the european union today is that more effort should be made to create cohesion between the new member states and the old ones. i have no doubt that mr barroso, the former prime minister of portugal, whose country has long enjoyed the benefits of cohesion, values solidarity, and not just between generations or social strata. finally, i should like to say that we are pleased that the president of the commission has given a firm and clear commitment that the commission will not do anything that is not in the interests of european citizens, that is to say, that it will refrain from legislating in a way that is contrary to the objectives of competitiveness and job creation and to the security of european citizens. i hope the commission will have the courage to sometimes not act.
there may be some who would like to see a slap in the face today in the parliamentary semicircle. it's not going to happen. that will not happen, because the document that the president has made known and all that he has said today is a step forward compared with the strasbourg document, we use the same words and we hope that behind the same words there is hope for similar political action, for common political action. i'm sure that working with your vice president's associates is a good sign, and i wouldn't open a debate about who's wearing a tie and who's wearing red ears and who prefers red. let us not forget that solidarity, social cohesion, is a value that has no colour, only a human content. i'd like to talk about security, justice. i was pleased to see that you did not treat the issue of safety and fairness as a regulatory issue but as one of principle. we all know that security is not automatic and that it is not only in the face of life-threatening threats that citizens should be offered a peaceful life. the european security policy must not only take account of the threat of terrorism, nor must it only find means of prevention and remedy against explosive bombs. in our view, and let me emphasize this, the real guarantee of security is democracy. it is only democracy that protects individuals, it is only in the legislative process that personal rights are guaranteed in democracy, and it is democracy that prevents the introduction of restrictions that are contrary to the spirit of our constitutional treaty, on the grounds of security. we don't want to live in a world anymore -- we tried -- where they write in the file what we dream about. and we don't want to live in a world where we can discriminate between people based on gender, age, religion, financial status, circumstances of birth. we do not want a world of discrimination, where the threat to the weak becomes a concrete danger, and the threat to the weak in particular grows: to women, to the elderly, to children. we do not want to discriminate against people of different kinds, so we ask you again and again: can we take seriously your promise to make a personal commitment to legislation to prevent discrimination, to take decisive legal action? the threats to the quality of human life include threats beyond security policy. because poverty, if it is entrenched and irreversible, creates fault lines between continents and countries, within countries, and solidarity, social cohesion, not only strengthens competitiveness, but also security. it prevents the migration of the poor and prevents poverty riots. and then we can say that nature may turn against man, but our common policy can prevent man from turning against man. i hope we can work together, sit on either side of the parliamentary bench.
each people, each nation, must conduct its own national self-examination. the unprecedented and unrepeatable slaughter of the holocaust, the greatest scandal of humanity, must not be forgotten. we hungarians must face the moral burden of having allowed the german nazis and their hungarian collaborators to separate 550 thousand of our hungarian jewish compatriots from the body of the nation during the emergency, including the hungarian martyr poet radnóti miklóst, who in his poem called "twist" marks the era thus: "i lived in that era on this earth, when man fell asleep by killing voluntarily, by hand, not by command, and while he believed in falsehoods and committed sins, his life was taken by wild coercion. " many venerable monuments and documentation centres have been created and many publications have been produced in europe, but the most important thing would be for the holocaust to have a memorial in the hearts of all european citizens. the hungarian people have not had an easy time, and today is not the time to face them. in the western half of europe, national self-assessment was carried out earlier and more fully than in the ten new member states. i am proud to say that we have made holocaust remembrance day a legal act in our country, we have prepared a textbook for students, and last spring the holocaust memorial centre in páva street was finally opened, and although 60 years late, the hungarian prime minister has declared the responsibility of the hungarian collaborators. in the spring, we will be tightening the criminal prosecution of hate speech and denial of auschwitz. today, any manifestation of racist hatred, open or coded hate speech, must be confronted without hesitation, with legal action, with moral condemnation. we hungarians want to be at the forefront of the european fight against prejudice, in the protection of national, ethnic, religious, sexual, any minority, in the fight against discrimination. in parallel with declarations and statements condemning discrimination and hate speech, we need stable european legal institutions that provide for infallible and appropriate sanctions. we need a system of protection of minorities in the union, that is the only way to protect europe's minorities, that is the task of the union, that is the moral imperative of the shoah.
the right to freedom of expression, won with much struggle and blood, is sacred to all european democrats. this is especially true of european nations that have recently fought for this right after being liberated from communist dictatorship. that is why the hungarian revolutionaries gave their blood and their lives in 1956, to restrict this sacred right requires a very thorough and special historical and emotional political reason. at least, for the same reason as several of the recent proposals that, out of respect for the victims of nazi atrocities and out of responsibility for future generations, have proposed banning the hated nazi symbol, the swastika. unfortunately, part of the common history of a reunited europe is another totalitarian dictatorship of evil, red communism, which, in its short history of the 20th century, was also responsible for the systematic death of tens of millions of innocent people. i therefore propose that if the union intends to initiate a ban on the swastika, we should also include a european ban on the symbols of the hated and murderous communist dictatorship. this ban has been in place in hungary for more than ten years. no more nazism in europe, no more communism in europe!
i would like to draw the attention of the house to a disturbing development in romania. recently, romanian authorities have begun to police a film about the treaty of trianon, claiming that it violates romanian state interests. the film is merely an expression of opinion, so it cannot be considered a violation of the law. the romanian authorities' action is incompatible with european democratic standards, which the romanian state has voluntarily undertaken with its future membership of the union, and is also in breach of universal human rights standards. the message is that the romanian authorities must stop this operation as soon as possible.
a critical situation has developed on the community cereals market. at its last meeting, the agriculture and fisheries council at the request of austria, supported by the czech republic, slovakia, italy, poland, hungary and france stated that the situation of european cereal producers was very serious. the 25 member states produced 52 million tonnes more cereals this year than the 7 million tonnes offered for community intervention so far. half of this, over 3 million tonnes, was offered by hungary. three problems have arisen in the community cereals market. first, the negative change in the euro/dollar exchange rate is a major concern. secondly, for countries far from the sea, such as the czech republic, austria, slovakia and hungary, tendering is a particular problem, as they are at a competitive disadvantage. and finally, thirdly, the earlier phasing out of export subsidies is creating additional problems. i ask commissioner fischer boel to take effective steps to solve the problems of the cereals market.
mr president, last week i participated in the 'berlinale', the 54th berlin film festival. most of our member states were represented with new productions either in the competition or in other sections of the festival. it was amazing to see how many talented film-makers we have in europe, but it was even more encouraging to see how many people were interested in non-hollywood films made in europe or elsewhere in the world. european films were more popular with the audience than american ones. the whole event showed me that there is a great interest in european cinema, in spite of the fact that our promotion of cinema production is weaker than that of american movies. there is a huge need to improve european media and cinema policy. the protection of our cinema heritage and the production of new films deserve more support, both financially and in terms of legislation.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, i generally welcome mrs prets' excellent report. i also welcome the idea of enlarging the european capital of culture initiative to include the new member states. some people perhaps think it would be better to have only one capital of culture per year, alternating yearly between the eu 15 of the old member states and the eu 10 of new member states. in this way, we could ensure that all the events are concentrated in one city. that would be a logical solution, but many old member states have already waited a long time to enjoy the prestige and to have the possibility of having a capital of culture. this doubling of the possibilities should be welcomed subject to one crucial condition: the two capitals should be equal in every way, including finance. it is the responsibility of the commission, the governments and the city councils, as well as of the media. i urge everyone to understand this concern and make every possible step to ensure equality in real terms. to have first-rate and second-rate capitals of culture could destroy the whole idea and would be a source of frustration and anger. in 2010, hungary and germany will host and provide a site for the capital of culture of europe. in hungary, 11 cities are competing for this wonderful chance to show themselves off to europe. my home town, budapest, is one of the candidates. frankly, budapest, even without a title, is one of the permanent culture capitals with its flourishing cultural life, but this possibility would be a special occasion. it is amazing to see that in all 11 hungarian cities, the local politicians, ngos, citizens young and old, are very active in the common cause of the contest. in this way, the contest itself offers a chance for common cultural activities in all the competing cities. provided there is equality of the two capitals, i welcome the initiative and the report.
, on behalf of the group.– mr president, some years ago a leading eu official visited a small village in eastern hungary. the village was close to a wetland – a real bird paradise. as we got out of the car he asked me to stay silent for a while. he wanted just to listen to the concerto of the birds and the cicadas. in our region in the west, he told me sadly, we have lost these untouched nature sites forever ; you should preserve yours at any price. the goal of the natura 2000 initiative can be defined by scientific criteria, but the basic motivation is simple: to save at least some parts of european natural sites for ourselves and for future generations. the biggest challenge for our future is the decrease in natural resources such as clean air, pure water and a healthy environment. a high grade of biodiversity is crucial for a healthy living environment, for food security and for quality of life in general. in addition to these goals, natura 2000 is also an effective tool to support european villages and the people living there. it is an important way of promoting organic farming and ecotourism. it provides jobs and revitalises rural areas. natura 2000 can help redefine the role of rural areas in europe. i hope we came here to praise natura 2000, not to bury it, as shakespeare might have said. the future of our natural heritage needs and deserves at least the eur 6.1 billion per year set aside for these brief projects. natura 2000 can be funded in different ways, either by what is known as 'earmarking' a share of existing funds, or through an independent natura 2000 fund. there are many technical details we have to resolve, but we should be united on one thing: the level of funding for natura 2000 cannot be even one cent lower than was proposed earlier by the commission. i ask every political group and everybody in leading positions to rescue the original proposal and to improve it in order to ensure that, one way or another, the given amount will be spent entirely on natura 2000 purposes. (applause)
thank you, mr. florenz, for allowing us the opportunity to discuss this important subject. it is in all our interests that natura 2000 is a functioning system. that is why we have invited your colleagues to the committee meeting in parliament, and that is why we have asked you to give us assurances and guarantees that the whole network will be able to be financed. unfortunately, we have had to experience that the commission's answers were meaningless, that they could not promise us any guarantees behind the beautiful ideology of the integrated approach. and you need guarantees. i come from hungary, where the government was able to override the preliminary agreement with the european union and divert huf 8 billion from agro-environmental protection to direct payments to agriculture. for these and similar reasons, farmers are demonstrating today in the capital of my country with their tractors. there is a saying in hungary that if you burn your mouth with hot water, you will also blow cold water later. that is where we are now, with the commission's empty answers and the attitude of some member states having burned our tongues and forced us to be cautious. i therefore ask the council and the commission, together with my colleagues, to create within the agricultural budget, in the context of the forthcoming financial perspective, a specific budget line for natura 2000 objectives, in parallel with a significant increase in the life+ programme. i will add this immediately, but this can only be envisaged in conjunction with an increase in the agricultural budget for this purpose, or to take steps to create a completely separate fund. i would also ask the commission representatives to take account of the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, which is not in the draft as it stands.
in september 2004, at the united nations economic conference, 110 countries signed a declaration that said: "it is a shame that poverty exists at such a high level when we have the power to eliminate it". "it is high time for action", said president chirac. eu policy can guarantee a real breakthrough in the fight against poverty. one of the fundamental questions for the future is whether, in a world based on a fundamentally market economy, there are social interests and forces that can reduce poverty. the eu must pursue policies that can contribute to economic development both within and outside its borders, while setting an example for other regions through its social security measures. the eu's aid policy should contribute to: radically reducing hunger and extreme poverty; making basic education universal in developing countries; increasing equality of opportunity for women; improving living conditions through job creation and the extension of public services; and so on. parliament must also be committed to fighting poverty in the 'whatever' way: it must provide resources for economic development, prepare for democratic governance in these countries, fight corruption, ensure a fairer distribution of income and significantly expand social and health services. there is still some debate about the french initiative to impose a global tax, but we are on a step-by-step basis: we cannot allow more than a billion people in the world to live on less than $1 a day. "now is the time to act", i think.
in order to become a candidate country, croatia has undertaken profound reforms in recent years to meet the political, economic and legal requirements set by the european union, the so-called copenhagen criteria. these efforts were recognised by the council, which granted croatia candidate status in december last year and set a date for the opening of accession negotiations. the accusations surrounding the extradition of general gotovina have made it uncertain whether croatia can really start negotiations. our committee's discussions in zagreb last week confirmed that the croatian government is complying with the council's decision of 17 december and is fully cooperating with the international court of justice. i ask the members of the council to accept as full cooperation the fact that 625 of the 626 requests made by the attorney general in the hague have been complied with. it is not worthy of the history of the enlargement of the european union to link the fate of a thousand-year-old european nation to the fate of one person.
mr president, we have become used to receiving bad and alarming news from russia. i have another incident to add to the long list of bad news. the finno-ugric mari people are currently suffering severe discrimination. the mari people live in an autonomous republic of the russian federation. recently, attacks, beatings and killings have been reported. the targets are journalists and opposition leaders such as yelena rogacheva and vladimir kozlov. what is more disgusting is that the regional government, run by a moscow-born politician, is inactive and completely indifferent to these serious violations of human rights. i call on the european parliament to protest against these violations and to call on the regional government of the federation to put a stop to human rights abuses.
mr president, as regards the financial perspectives, the situation is very worrying in many areas, especially in rural development and environmental protection. it is clear that we cannot do more for europe with less money. the financial resources for 2007-2013 are clearly insufficient, but the budgetary constraint affects the fifteen and the ten new member states in different ways. in our view, the rural development funds would make up for the highly discriminatory measures taken at the copenhagen summit, whereby farmers in the ten new member states receive only 25% of direct aid. for us, there was only one hope of compensation, and that was the famous rural development which was declared a priority of the european union for the agricultural world. however, it is clear that resources are limited or limited. i ask the commission to ensure that the resources for the less developed regions are not reduced.
today, there is no doubt that progress in the use of renewable energy sources is needed in the light of climate change and energy security. even if the oil companies were to spend a portion of their profits on this area, i'm convinced that it wouldn't be enough. this requires progress in at least two other areas, namely the commitment of member states and central r & d. let's look at the first one, the commitment, the attitude of the member countries. the commission report to the ep states that 'many member states have not yet taken practical steps to achieve the commitments they have made', with the 22.1% target for 2010 at community level now in jeopardy and only 18-19% appearing realistic. there are huge differences between the performance of individual member states, my country, hungary, for example, has committed the least, only 3.6% by 2010, while europe's largest geothermal power station is spread out, from which not a single watt of electricity has been generated to date. i therefore support the creation of a renewable energy conference to address the different situations of member states and to seek consensus. it is also the responsibility of the member states to ensure that the market for green electricity is taken up and that administrative, legal, technical, technological and network access barriers are removed. more public support and community funding is needed not only from the union but also from the member states. the commission should do all it can to ensure that member states contribute more financially to development and that external costs are reflected in the energy prices charged. i am also concerned by the fact that over the last 20 years, research and technological development expenditure in the field of renewable energy has typically decreased at national and european level. in the interest of subsidies, i propose that the eu's 7th framework programme for research and technological development, starting in 2007, include a separate budget line for research and development programmes in the field of renewable energy.
on the occasion of international women's day, i would like to extend a warm welcome to all those present and draw your attention to another, less well-known, important day, the international roma day, which will be celebrated on 8 april every year, exactly one month from now. the issue of racial and gender discrimination was first highlighted at the fourth un world conference on women in beijing in 1995. despite the call from beijing, discrimination has not been the subject of a deeper and more detailed investigation at either international or domestic levels. therefore, there is very little mention that discrimination on the basis of ethnicity does not affect women and men equally. roma women suffer multiple discrimination when they are discriminated against not only on ethnic grounds but also on gender grounds. roma women face many social constraints in a european context. at the same time, she is held back by the constraints of gender discrimination in her smaller community. as a member of the roma community, roma women are often forced to live on the margins of society, facing financial insecurity, social exclusion, negative discrimination, anti-gypsyism and sometimes physical danger on a daily basis. in europe, several laws prohibit discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity in healthcare. however, roma women face many phenomena that contradict these principles. separate gypsy rooms, forced sterilization, verbal abuse, and poor quality care are all problems that are present. roma women live at the crossroads of gender and racial discrimination, but their problem cannot be reduced to cultural and ethnic dimensions. they also face the same problems as their non-roma female counterparts, who are often also excluded and living in poverty, so they have lower employment opportunities than men, receive lower wages and experience increased shortages of childcare services, daycare, crèche and schooling. one of the most important elements of our fight for equal opportunities for women, in my opinion, must be to recognize, acknowledge, raise awareness and address the multiple discrimination faced by women from minority groups, including roma women.
mr president, last friday in new york we agreed on a declaration on the ten-year review of the platform for action agreed in beijing ten years ago. the eu delegation — both governments and civil society — gave strong messages of commitment to further progress. thanks to the great cooperation with mrs jacobs, the minister, there has been some progress over this period. however, poverty still has a female face and violence against women is pervasive: one in four women in the world is subject to violence, a significant number of them in their own homes. i also take this opportunity to condemn yesterday's horrific events in turkey. i condemn the violence used by the police against women involved in peaceful demonstration. i am also disappointed with the negotiations last week in new york. as a result of intense international pressure, the us administration reluctantly accepted the internationally backed declaration because it contained the word 'abortion'. we in europe have an honest and meaningful debate about those issues. european socialist women are ready to fight with all their energy against this conservative backlash in the us. this is the right time for action. let us use the new york meeting to inject new energy and commitment at eu and national level: legislation, evaluation and accountability. in its declaration, the luxembourg government advocated the reinforcement of its institutional mechanisms and the integration of gender into all its actions and policies. today, european socialist women have launched a pledge card with five priorities, the most important of which is more and better jobs for women. we cannot hope to achieve our economic and social objectives set in lisbon without more women in work. this is not about women fighting for women, but about a common battle, fighting for a better eu for women.
the long-term goal of the npt is the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. we are further away from that goal today than when the convention was adopted. the review conference is unlikely to bring any breakthrough. still, it may make sense to move forward in at least three areas. first, the additional protocols should be made the main rule. secondly, the production and use of nuclear fuels must be subject to international control. thirdly, the withdrawal from the npt must be sanctioned by a strong action by the un. and what we also need to talk about is iran needs to demonstrate a genuine and credible willingness to negotiate. today, he is clearly misleading the world's public opinion, making contradictory statements. the only way to negotiate with him is to be honest in the negotiations, otherwise it's all a sham.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sanchez presedo. since its creation in 1971, the gsp has been a special instrument of the european union's development policy. it is also important to mention that the european union was the first to put this system into practice, from its inception to the present day, and the eu is still the largest donor to this system, with the united states only second, far behind the union. i welcome the opportunity for parliament to express its views and i very much hope that the commission and the council will listen to it. i am also pleased with the simplification of the system, the transition from the five-pillar model to the three-pillar model, which is probably better able to achieve its objectives in developing countries because of the simplification. i also think it is important to mention the rules of origin, which the commission is also dealing with in its statement. however, this system of origin, in terms of its form, content and complexity of the procedure, has a very low applicability, especially in the least developed countries. although the draft regulation does not make too many changes to the current system, the european parliament, in its resolution adopted by a large majority on 14 october last, stresses the great need to extend cross-regional and global cumulation. finally, i cannot stress enough the need - as my colleague mr van den berg mentioned this morning - to extend the transitional period until 1 january 2006.
the european parliament clearly agrees with the commission that the renewal of the lisbon strategy should focus on job creation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, growth and research. the strategy's failure so far has been largely due to inaction and short-term thinking by the member states. parliament and the commission must therefore jointly put pressure on member states to achieve the objectives now clearly defined . efforts should be made to ensure that the union's seven-year financial perspective guarantees the resources needed to achieve the objectives of job creation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises in research and development, while not reducing the new cohesion resources available to catch up new members and disadvantaged regions. this is essential to maintain the unity of the union. equal access to the achievement of the lisbon objectives should be ensured. it is important to reach out to those affected and to put pressure on member state governments to move beyond short-term policy and budgetary considerations. in some of the new member states, there are still serious budgetary and bureaucratic obstacles to small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers successfully competing with the big players or simply getting what they are entitled to by law. that's why farmers are protesting against the government in the streets of budapest. it is essential to support centres of excellence with a strong research and scientific culture in the new member states and to enable them to participate on an equal footing in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. today, new member states are often unable to prevent losing their best researchers due to lack of resources. the brain drain is the most likely to improve american competitiveness, not european competitiveness. work, work, work: this is what makes europe competitive, and european citizens richer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. parliament, the epp-ed group and the representatives of the new member states are your allies in this fight. after words, now actions must follow.
i want to start with a question from 20 years ago: what is the headline of the cst? (the kgst was the economic coordination organisation for the eastern european countries.) the answer is: ten skinny cows in a green field. i am convinced that if the european union does not take decisive decisions within a year or two - and the member states do - then in 20 years' time this will be the eu's slogan, with the difference that there will be more cows and perhaps even fewer. to prevent this, a radical change in attitude and a series of courageous steps are needed. regardless of political affiliation, religious or atheist, male or female. my heart, my mind, my actions, they all say i'm left-wing. as a left-wing, i believe our only chance is to seize the opportunities of the single market, to break down barriers to the free movement of goods, services, labour and capital, and to do so with a rapidity that is unprecedented. increasing european competitiveness is a key issue for our future. if we don't change, we're not only going to fall behind others, but we're going to fall behind our own potential and our own dreams. let's make an alliance to force ourselves, our national governments, to try to shape public opinion to accept change, to subordinate their quadrennial propaganda machine of political power and their individual interests to europe, to the millions of people living in europe. we need to know that we are making decisions about the future of our children, our grandchildren. whether they'll have a job in 20 years. my youngest daughter is nine. i don't want him to say, "mom, you screwed up". the question is not who says what, but who does what.
i would like to contribute to the debate as a representative of the newly acceding countries, and as someone who is particularly concerned about the question of social europe. we all know the huge difference in living standards between the newly joined countries and the old ones. we also know that this difference is unacceptable and that we must strive to eliminate it. among other things, the lisbon strategy was one of the most important guiding documents for us when we joined. it was a great attraction to be part of a europe that aims to increase economic competitiveness, create jobs and at the same time extend the values of social europe to the whole of europe. the view that increasing economic competitiveness is a priority and that social dimensions are less important is unacceptable in the newly acceding countries, where more than a third of the population lives in poverty. it is true that the best way to combat poverty is to increase economic competitiveness and create jobs, but this must be closely linked to social cohesion, education, research and development and environmental protection. social matters are a matter for the member states, but good coordination between the institutions at eu level is essential. we cannot accept living in a brutal market economy, but must strive for a socially sensitive europe.
we support the european union's agreements with libya on hiv issues and urge the immediate implementation of the action plans, which were inspired by our solidarity with those infected in the benghazi hospital (and thank the commission for this package of measures). first of all, i would like to express our concern about the situation of bulgarian and palestinian health workers. six years ago, they were suspected, arrested and sentenced to death. we are not the first to take this approach, and the presidencies of the commission and the council are also dealing with this issue in their meetings. but again, we have to say that the death penalty is outside our normative framework and the fundamental principles of the european union, and the implementation of the death penalty would undermine the normalization of relations between the european union and libya. we hope that libya will respond positively to the eu's ambitions and work to promote long-term, close cooperation. in light of this, we hope to make rapid progress on this matter, which can only be a fair appeal process. to suspend legality is to deny legality. we therefore call on libya to respond promptly to our concerns and ask the council to initiate a re-examination of the case.
the 21st century will be the century of science, research and technological development. the document before us is based on this recognition and rightly sees that the eu needs to make the greatest effort in this area in order to compete in an increasingly tough competition. i therefore support the report. but let me draw your attention to a concern in the short time i have. to do this, i'll quote a quote, perhaps not unfamiliar with the subject, from albert einstein: "knowledge has limits, but imagination is infinite". now that the lisbon strategy is on the agenda, it is perhaps not too late to ask: what is the guarantee that the ambitious goals set out in the report will not remain part of the infinite realm of fantasy but will serve as a basis for real knowledge? for example, in hungary, although it is attractive, 3% of gdp still seems a long way off, and this is certainly the case in most of the newly joined countries. i believe there is only one way to dispel this anxiety. the new and old member states should be encouraged and supported in the field of research and development in a manner appropriate to their different and specific situations. to avoid a situation in which r&d resources are available in proportion to the level of economic development. this would preserve existing disparities and lead to a weakening of cohesion. and here too, the union is only as strong as its member states are and as prepared as they are. if there is no breakthrough in this area either, then europe will have successfully met one of the greatest challenges of the new century. and if it does, it's worth writing this report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. natura 2000 is an ecological network designed to protect natural habitats and plant and animal species of community importance. the european parliament has a responsibility to the citizens of the union to stop the decline of biodiversity in europe. but to achieve our goal, like any great enterprise, we need money. all the member states, the council and the commission agreed when we drew up the birds and habitats directive. it was also consistent when we decided to build the european nature network. then let us make our decision now and work together to create the financial conditions for it. in the people's party and the environment committee, we have welcomed the european commission's proposal to provide financial support for the natura 2000 network. an integrated approach, with funding from the rural development fund, the structural funds and the life+ fund, could even be viable. it is possible that (1) the funds in question would indeed give priority to nature conservation objectives, (2) they would incorporate appropriate guarantees into the provisions of the various financial instruments, and (3) they would provide additional resources to these funds because of the increased tasks. this would ensure that member states receive adequate funding and that programmes to conserve biodiversity are not at risk of being outpaced by other, more economically competitive projects. however, the commission's answers to our questions reinforced our doubts about the effectiveness of the integrated approach. the european people's party therefore believes that this financing solution should be reviewed and that a specific financial instrument should be considered. i would like to thank mrs margaret auken for her work, for her thorough and professional report and for her willingness to cooperate throughout. our compromise amendments show that all the groups and committees are moving in the same direction in the common interest.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, just recently the hungarian national assembly presented a sculpture named ‘the rediscovered europe’ as a gift to the european parliament. this sculpture reminds us once again that europe is not just a continent, or a political and economic unit, but also an imaginary person. europe not only needs competition, development and infrastructure, but, like any woman, she also needs care in order to preserve her beauty and natural assets. many natural assets such as lakes, rivers, forests and fields have already been destroyed by industry, urban planning and intensive agriculture. now it is really our last chance to save the remaining natural sites in our member states. that is why the socialist group welcomes the commission’s natura 2000 initiative without any hesitation. we also welcome every further step to strengthen the programme. we have consulted many environmental ngos in brussels and at home and have built their suggestions into our amendments. natura 2000 can work only with the active support of local communities, ngos, and rank and file people – men and women, young and old, who just like the beauties of nature without any political statement. the socialist group is committed to providing a clean natural environment for every european citizen. the commission’s original communication envisaged eur 6.1 billion per year for the project. we considered it a brave and encouraging step. later, we heard that, due to co-financing, the member states would have to cover half of that sum. for new member states like my country, hungary, it is not easy to secure money, but we are committed to doing our best to save our unique and untouched natural sites. however, at least half of the sum should be guaranteed by the eu, which is why i have tabled an amendment to ensure that at least the minimum sum of eur 3.05 billion per year, or eur 25.35 billion between 2006 and 2013, is guaranteed by the commission. on monday evening, the amendment was carried unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. it is very sad to see that the ppe-de group has changed its mind once more and wants to delete the reference to a concrete sum in the report. i am very disappointed by that approach. without money, we can tell fairy tales for 1001 nights, but not a single tree or one square metre of a lake will be spared from destruction. the socialist group keeps to a straight path and we do not change our standpoint from one day to the next. we support the report as it has already been accepted by the environment committee, and ask other groups to also say ‘no’ to those who try to start cutting the budget for nature and the future of europe’s environmental assets. the voting list for tomorrow will speak for itself.
mr president, i mentioned in my speech the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of which i am a member. that committee voted unanimously on the report. i did not mention the committee on regional development, so i was not mistaken.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the two authors, mr fruteau and mr daul, who had an extremely difficult and complicated task. they had to temper the excessive radicalism of the european commission and find a good compromise. there is no doubt that a genuine reform of the sugar sector is needed, but it is necessary to avoid shock therapy. we must avoid the fact that a few thousand producers have to cut their production in europe. the reform should ensure that producers are adequately compensated for the decline in prices and quotas. from the point of view of the new member states, including hungary, the transferability of quotas will have catastrophic consequences. i would draw your attention to the fact that amendment no 38, which aims to freeze the isoglucose quotas, would have very serious consequences for poland and hungary. we support the commission's position on this. i ask for the solidarity of my colleagues in this respect and i ask the european commission to take very seriously the proposals made in our parliament's resolution.
for the first time, representatives of the new member states will be able to take part in the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy. the reform of the sugar market is particularly important for us hungarians. in hungary, sugar beet cultivation and sugar processing go back more than a hundred years. but hungarian producers and processors are now saying that the european commission's proposal is putting us in danger of a complete cessation of sugar beet production and processing. this is not only socially and economically unacceptable for us, but also because in hungary, sugar beet is grown on the best quality land, and if the cultivation here stops, they will grow grain, further increasing the surplus grain. the proposal adopted by the european parliament's committee on agriculture is beneficial for european producers and thus for hungarian producers. this proposal rejects quota trading between member states and makes the future of the sector more predictable by giving longer deadlines for the new rules. it prevents the abuse of trade preferences granted by the eu, as is the case for example with the western balkan countries, because the benefits of this illegal trade are not enjoyed by producers in other countries that were originally intended to benefit, but by exporters in third countries, such as brazilians. the proposal to put the quota in the hands of the producers is crucial, since it would prevent sugar beet processors from exporting sugar production from the european union to third countries. although we have no legislative power on this matter, we can only give an opinion, and i trust that the commission and the council will take this opinion into account.
on behalf of the pse group, madam president, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is a historic task, and the review period is a historic one, as the eu became a union of 25 in 2004 and progress must be made in a new political environment of security and justice. in this eu of 25 there is a different concept of outside and inside, and this new world requires not only rules but also new institutions that do not function formally but know the internal problems and fractures of the 25 member states, including the ten new ones. we therefore encourage the new institutions, the border protection agency and the european human rights agency, to do a really meaningful and effective job. the eu is indeed at the crossroads of conflicting interests and citizens' expectations, because - commissioner frattini is right - european citizens want more security, more freedom. at the same time, we all know that we need more solidarity, even if the eu sometimes measures gestures of solidarity with a narrower grip than it does security. we understand that since 9/11 and madrid, we have to deal with the necessity of taking action against terrorism, and we understand that sometimes there is a temptation to override the values of freedom or solidarity, but we cannot. we can't do it for those who are looking for a new home in the eu. we welcome the differentiation of immigration policy and welcome the questions in the green paper. but we ask that the questions be answered in a way that critically assesses the state of the eu's labour market, including the labour supply in the new member states.
mr. president, i have to ask you... europe seeks itself closes for europe by robert schuman. this idea is as relevant to the european community today as it was then. the lisbon programme and the programme for an area of freedom, security and justice are two of the most important challenges facing europe today. i believe that these two areas are closely interrelated and mutually reinforcing, but also that they presuppose each other's success. in this context, the importance of tackling illegal migration cannot be overstated. one of the most important ways of doing this is in addition to strengthening cooperation on border control and internal affairs to shift illegal migration towards legal migration, as many believe. this could also alleviate europe's demographic problems and contribute to boosting economic growth by providing the necessary new workforce. migration is, of course, about human rights and values, and about discrimination and disadvantage. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that 8 april is international roma day and that europe's largest minority is regularly subject to discrimination and a high level of intolerance. the member states have different approaches to this issue, but this should not prevent parliament, together with the commission and the council, from making a fundamental change. the creation of security and freedom at the same time serves the future of all citizens of europe.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. i should like to take this brief moment, which the socialist group has given me, to thank the rapporteurs, all the members of the commission and the secretariat, as president of cocobu, for the hard and self-sacrificing work which we are now discussing. the current exemption procedure differs from the previous ones in two respects. on the one hand, it was the first in which the representatives of the new countries could take an active part, so that they could experience for themselves what constitutes one of the ep's most important activities in this specific process. not just in terms of numbers, but also in terms of the political aspects of how europe works, how europe's future is shaped. the other, even more important change is that this year, building on the experience and recognition of the rapporteur, terence wynn, we have reformed the procedure itself, replacing the previous written question-and-answer format with a direct dialogue with the commission, the institutions concerned and the european court of auditors. we were pleased to see that this reform was welcomed by all concerned. they share our view that this is the way to ensure that this discharge procedure is not seen as a nightmare but as a joint task for parliament, the commission and the court of auditors to make the eu work better, more efficiently and more transparently for the public. i would like to thank commissioner siim kallas and the president of the court of auditors, mr hubert weber, in particular, for their contributions and look forward to continuing our cooperation in this important area.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we are almost at the end of a very long process for bulgaria. the path to the eu's big family is what the country has seen as a priority across governments, empowering the population. the decision we now have in our hands is a continuation of the process of european reunification that the ep started two years ago in this very building for the ten new countries. with this enlargement, we can extend the area of stability, peace and prosperity to romania and bulgaria. we can extend the values of a europe based on democracy, pluralism and the rule of law. as mr van orden mentioned in his balanced report, there are still some tasks for bulgaria to fulfil. and as commissioners rehn and wiersma and other colleagues have said, i am very pleased that parliament will continue to be involved in the preparation process. i would therefore like to ask our bulgarian friends to continue the great work they started years ago and which will help us to close this period on 1 january 2007. on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to say that we are ready to welcome the bulgarian people into the society to which they have always belonged, because they share our history, our culture and our values. this marks the end of an artificial deficit, as in the case of romania. i am therefore delighted to have the opportunity to say a few words about romania as a hungarian representative, because i believe that the enlargement will be the solution for the 2 million hungarians living in romania and that we can live in a common europe without borders from 2007.
mr. president, i have to ask you... when i say yes tomorrow to the inclusion of romania as a country able to meet and apply european standards and practices, i can do so by drawing attention to the importance of being able to monitor the fulfilment of commitments. romania has undergone a great change in the last fifteen years. a backward country, literally shrouded in darkness, after a harsh dictatorship, in a short time became a nato member, a candidate for eu membership. thanks to his new government, the foundations of the rule of law will hopefully be shaken in the coming months. at the same time, the transition is fraught with unresolved issues, in addition to successes. as the hungarian representative, i must highlight the series of transitional exemptions requested by romania in the field of environmental protection, including those that directly affect the state of hungary's natural resources. sensitive, unresolved issues include corruption, the independence of the judiciary, the return of church and community property, the case of the state hungarian university, the cultural rights of the cangós, the autonomy aspirations of the hungarian and szeklerland, and the provisions of electoral laws that discriminate against minority organizations, which have also been criticized by international institutions. the coming months are also hopeful in these areas. this is a historic moment for the romanian people and for the hungarians of transylvania, who are particularly important to me. i believe that accession can empower the one and a half million indigenous hungarian minority to shape their future and to have the chance to achieve self-governance, autonomy and self-reliance. by agreeing to sign the accession treaty here, we give romania a chance. that is why i emphasise the need to monitor closely the period between the signing of the accession treaty and actual accession. the european parliament must play a role in this process so that everyone can be relieved of their doubts on the day of actual accession. my work in the ep made it clear to me that the future of romania, including the hungarians living there, depends on us in many ways. let us be firm in our demand for figures, even if the delegations of the governments of the past wish otherwise, since concealing the problems would have a demoralizing effect on the population of the member states. this is important not least for the sake of the romanian population, which can only be interested in being the beneficiary of this accession. that's what my yes vote is about. it's an opportunity for these people.
mr. president, i have to ask you... for hungary, the inclusion of romania is a national interest, since in history the hungarian-romanian relationship has been full of conflicts. the eu can be a real, though not automatic, framework for their final settlement. the hungarian national community of one and a half million in romania is in the vital interest of an early eu membership, and among them support for the union is over 90%. hungary wishes to assist the romanian government, in the framework of its good neighbour policy, to ensure that romania fully complies with the requirements set out in this report, that romania's admission is not delayed and that the safeguard clause is not applied. among the tasks to be solved is the creation of a real self-government, a real decentralization. the ep is calling on the romanian government to take further steps to improve the situation of the hungarian minority, to take special measures, and to introduce subsidiarity and self-government. self-governance is synonymous with autonomy, and this is something that a minority of 1.5 million people desperately need. both the personal autonomy of those living in the sparsity and the territorial autonomy of those living in the cluster. in this context, the romanian regions should be shaped by historical linguistic traditions. thank you for your report to mr. moscovici. encouragement, significant help for minorities in romania. on these terms, i am clearly in favour of romania's immediate admission.
the accession of bulgaria is really important for us, but it is more important for the women living there. this country has done some progress in the issue recently. most of acquis in the area of equal opportunities have already been transposed, and the principals of non-discrimination and equal opportunities have a good juridical and a progressing institutional background. but there are still some problems. first of all, although these rules were introduced, their implementing and execution are lagging behind. a lot needs to be done in this issue. bulgaria is a country of origin and transit of trafficking in human beings especially of women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation. this must not be further tolerated. women's representation in the political and public life is disappointingly low. they constitute only 25% of the government, 28% of the national parliament and 7% of regional governors. that's why i call on the european commission to prioritise these issues just after this debate, and hold a strong controll of the country. i am really convinced that the eu-membership of the country will bring progress to these issues. that's why i will vote yes, and i am asking you to do so.
the eu constitution recognises sport as an important means of education, as an opportunity for social cohesion and a healthy lifestyle. doping threatens the very essence of sport, because it destroys the principle of equal opportunities, seriously damages the spirit of fair play, and renders performance detached from the quantity and quality of the work invested. doping is also dangerous for the competitors themselves, with literature recording hundreds of deaths. samaranch, the former president of the ioc, said that doping was the death of sport. dangerous performance enhancers have been introduced into recreational sports and fitness centers, and production, trade and consumption are now rampant, affecting and endangering millions. the fight against doping is conducted on three levels worldwide: (1) prevention, education and awareness; (2) control, using the state-of-the-art methods offered by science, before, during and after competitions; and (3) strict punishment, that is, a penalty strong enough to deter. in the first two areas mentioned, the eu can participate in the broad anti-doping alliance, since we do not have the competence to punish. although some countries have already passed laws that punish doping severely, similar to drug use. i personally propose that we take an active part in cleansing the sport, if you will, in saving it, take the message of our constitution seriously, and work more closely with wada than ever before. currently, only 12 of the 25 eu countries have an accredited laboratory. let's help the other 13 countries to contribute to this valuable technical equipment. establish a single eu control network, which offers the opportunity for close cooperation not only in control but also in sports science research. let's not forget that sports science is already working intensively on a new form of doping that could be even more dangerous than ever, namely, gene doping. i also suggest that the eu ombudsman should create the possibility for european citizens to report if they become aware of the production, distribution or consumption of doping substances.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european parliament is the ultimate guardian of human rights, and therefore it is particularly important to highlight what is important and critical in this report. i welcome the fact that the amendments have given a separate chapter to the human rights situation in the western balkans. as the head of the hungarian socialist delegation and chairman of the intergroup on historical national minorities, constitutional regions and regional languages, i consider it a very serious shortcoming of the report that it does not deal with the violation of the rights of national minorities in accordance with its weight and significance. in some cases, it mentions the violations of the rights of national minorities, but typically, in the case of the western balkans, it does not even mention them. it is absurd to think that the problems of kosovo, bosnia-herzegovina or serbia can be solved without guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. i see two fundamental problems. there is a conceptual, a conceptual problem that simplifies the rights of national minorities to human rights. without human rights, there are no minority rights, but the guarantee of human rights does not in itself guarantee the rights of national minorities, which requires special rights, special treatment, preferential treatment. the other problem is that the eu has no system of rules for the protection of minorities, no proper monitoring system, no part of the acquis communautaire. the situation is paradoxical, since for the new member states, the situation of national minorities in the country was included in the copenhagen criteria for political admission in 1994. the union's continuous monitoring of the situation of national minorities has had a very positive impact on the national minority situation in the new central european member states. why do we not do this in the current report, why is there no separate chapter on national minorities in the list of thematic issues? that's why i'm proposing that next year, national minorities get a separate chapter in the next annual report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. roma in the eu and beyond have been victims of negative discrimination on a daily basis for centuries. the anti-gypsyism that we see across europe, the discrimination that we suffer on a daily basis, prevents us from participating fully and to the full in the social, social and economic life of europe and of the countries that we consider our homeland. in recent years, a number of international organisations have launched programmes to alleviate prejudice against roma and to help them integrate fully into society, but there is no single european guideline or response to these pressing issues. the european parliament's proposal for a five-party resolution, as well as the european commission's resolution adopted today by mr vladimir spidla, is a milestone in this respect. this resolution demonstrates the common commitment of the different political forces to take a united action against the prevailing anti-gypsyism and structural discrimination, and to promote equal opportunities in employment, education, housing, health and participation in political life. social injustices affecting roma have not disappeared with european accession in either the old or the new member states. this fact makes it clear that the eu institutions continue to have a role in the continuous monitoring and examination of human rights. a strong european representation of roma rights should mean, among other things, that the copenhagen political criteria should apply uniformly to the old and new member states, as well as to the soon-to-be-accession countries. for disadvantaged roma, access to employment is one of the most pressing issues. the reintegration of roma into the labour market must be a priority and, therefore, the employment of roma must be accelerated by short-term, positive measures. in the enlarged eu, 15 per cent of the population is affected by poverty and 9 per cent live in persistent extreme poverty, with the newly joined countries in a much worse situation. it is also clear that the number of roma living in persistent extreme poverty is very high, with unemployment rates among the roma population reaching and in many cases exceeding 80%. there is no doubt that the achievement of the lisbon strategy objectives would have a positive impact on the lives of roma and that a conscious, inclusive political will would clearly contribute to the success of the lisbon strategy. the lisbon strategy will not achieve its objectives unless we take real steps and make efforts to promote the integration of roma into the majority society. the growing political commitment of the european commission should lead to real action based on professionalism, and to the creation of a coherent system of minority protection that promotes the integration of europe's roma in all areas. in this process, the european parliament must act as the most minority-oriented institution, and together with civil society organisations and the governments of the member states, become the commission's number one ally. we hope that the ep's resolution on the situation of roma in europe will provide a professional basis for the ec and national governments' actions affecting roma. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues from all five parties, our advisers and the ngos who have been actively involved in this decision-making.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, i have to go. we are facing a very important moment, because this is the first time in europe that the european parliament has been able to take such a decision, and we will be voting on it tomorrow. the european union, the european parliament and all the bodies that control, make or change rules within the eu are very often critical of human rights outside the borders of the european union. it is also a historic moment because it is the first document to criticize human rights within the eu, and to do so with regard to roma. this kind of political mood, which is beginning to emerge in parliament for the first time in history, is also important because now it is no longer taboo to find discrimination against roma within the borders of the european union. today, within the borders of 25 countries, disability registration rates average 60 percent. this means that on average 60% of all disabled children are roma. not only did we deprive that child of the opportunity to pursue further education, but we put him in a position from which he could never recover in his life, and we practically sealed his fate at the age of seven. but it is not at all surprising that within the eu - and i am not going to say countries - there are housing problems, forced evictions, forced sterilisation, separate maternity rooms, and i could even list the cases of discrimination that the resolution itself lists in various paragraphs. the union also has an important role to play in promoting political participation, and the lack of it is also given considerable weight in some paragraphs of the resolution. today, there are about 7-8 million roma in the european union, and we represent them in this parliament by two people on the basis of their origin. i am very proud of my country, that we are both from hungary, but there is not a single representative of roma in politics from any other country, either in the commission or in any other eu institution. not only the european union - and we in particular - must make up for this lack of participation as soon as possible, but also national governments, so that not only the european union can say that it is determining the strategy of each country in this matter through various directives and guidelines, but also the national governments themselves feel the responsibility that this is a social and pan-european problem. it is not the roma who have to solve this issue, because they do not want to be disabled for their own children, because they do not want to cut their ovaries as women. according to opinion polls, roma feel most european in europe. this claim is not surprising, since roma in all countries, especially in central and eastern european countries, no longer trust their own government. different political parties have been changing hands through different cycles, and no political party in government has been able to provide an answer to this problem that would, for example, eliminate discrimination. the only hope for the roma is the european union and the european parliament, where we are all sitting now, trying to get a resolution through the vote tomorrow. i am confident that with this resolution we will be setting a true human rights standard for the roma.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the ep's main topic this week was the issue of fundamental human rights, including the situation of the roma minority in europe. i believe that the situation of the roma minority goes far beyond the borders of the rule of law, and i see the situation of the roma as a matter to be resolved at european level. we convened a forum yesterday afternoon, the ep roma forum, for roma who are regularly disadvantaged, discriminated against, living behind barbed wire, without water, gas or electricity in their homes and unable to educate their children. this extraordinary european roma forum was attended by a number of meps and officials who believe that we must work together to tackle this series of discrimination. we decided to set up a european system to monitor and track discrimination and to create a database of cases of discrimination against roma. we ask the commissioner to help us set up such a monitoring system for discrimination and to help this forum to shape public opinion accordingly. we think that there are many good aspirations within the eu, aspirations of ngos, individuals, representatives, but they very often do not meet. it would be very important for the commissioner and parliament to coordinate the many different efforts that may not be in contact, because then we could act much more effectively and efficiently and we could represent more effectively a kind of human rights protection for europe's largest minority.
mr. president, i have to ask you... for a few weeks now, the press will be reporting all over europe, conferences will be held on the experiences of a year of historic eu enlargement. in my country, hungary, we will celebrate may day in such a way that from now on, for 100 million citizens of 10 new countries, it will not only be a celebration of work, but also our return to europe, our reunification. we came with huge expectations, and i admit we waited with some hesitation last year for the day when we would finally be a fully-fledged eu country. a minute's speech does not allow us to take stock of the experience of one year of enlargement. but i would like to take this moment to thank the old members for their friendship, helpfulness, tolerance and solidarity. your help has helped us greatly to be able to participate in the work of the eu in a constructive and responsible way, for the benefit of our countries, our parties and all the citizens of the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, i have to go. the reciprocity mechanism was introduced four years ago. he hasn't been used since. that alone is reason enough to think about renewing it, changing it. it was not applied because the system was too rigid, but also because no substantial national interest had been affected. however, the situation has changed radically with the enlargement. there are 19 countries that are not covered by the reciprocity mechanism. my colleagues have already highlighted the united states, but this is true of canada, australia, new zealand, other countries. we simply cannot accept discrimination between citizens of the union. this mechanism - like the union as a whole - is based on solidarity, but unfortunately this solidarity has not yet worked. we hope that the new provision will make solidarity effective. anyone who has spoken to citizens of the new member states - not politicians, as this is not their problem, but citizens - knows the administrative burden, costs, time and energy involved in obtaining a visa to the united states. for the lucky ones. because there are thousands of people who, for no good reason, don't get this visa, and they're rejected. it is high time that the commission, acting in solidarity with the member states, took decisive action on behalf of the community, and i hope that mr frattini will seize the opportunity to deal with these cases. this report provides a very good basis for that. i would like to congratulate mr lax on his excellent report, and i consider three of the proposals which it is essential that we adopt to be particularly important. i think it is important that the notification period be increased from 10 days to 90 days, as this will allow individual member states to negotiate directly. but after 90 days, the community mechanism must come into force. i think it is important that parliament should be involved in the process. this is not only because it increases the authority and weight of parliament, but also because it strengthens democratic transparency. and i think it's important that he's not just talking about visa requirements, but about all kinds of procedures that restrict free movement in general. we expect that by adopting and amending the new mechanism, the commission will exert its full weight in all cases where member states' interests are affected and today the essential interests of 9 new member states are affected , and that the commission will successfully negotiate these cases under the new provision.
mr. president, i have to ask you... a few days after earth day on april 22, it may not seem an exaggeration to say that the water that covers most of our earth, that is present in the greatest quantity in all living organisms, that is found both solid in the poles and in the air in a state of aeration, is the most important component of our life, our greatest treasure. now, with this directive, we are trying to protect one of the most important treasures of this treasure, our groundwater, and while we have the same goal, we have different solutions. i am convinced that standards need to be set at community level, since the good quality of interconnected bodies of water across national borders can only be guaranteed if neighbouring countries are subject to the same strict standards. of course, when we talk about quality standards, we have to take into account the different natural properties of the soil and water bodies. therefore, the level of naturally occurring substances in water should be taken into account when setting the limit values: a good example is the high arsenic content of groundwater in the southern lowland region of hungary. the proposal for a directive would continue to prohibit direct discharges of pollutants into groundwater and i believe it is important that any permitted indirect discharges take account of other pollutants affecting the environment in the area concerned. fortunately, my amendment to this has been favourably received by the environment committee. the report has the particular merit of calling for the designation of protected areas for water bodies that are sources of medicinal products. improving groundwater quality requires changing current agricultural practices and eliminating pollution from, for example, abandoned landfills, which requires action plans and resources. the need for these to be stated now is that member states should take this important environmental task seriously enough. in conclusion, may i congratulate mrs klaß on her excellent report, which, if adopted, will be decisive for the protection of our groundwater resources in the post-2003 period.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. on behalf of the socialists in europe, i welcome the report, which is realistic in its content and contains practical proposals. it is a particularly good feeling to be debating the report almost every day on the first anniversary of accession. the report shows that no country has fully adopted the acquis communautaire beyond the required rigor, which has not yet been done in most of the old member states. interestingly, however, this has not led to a more perfect functioning of the internal market, but rather to a partial distortion of it for the following reasons. the economic reforms that followed the change of regime have only partially taken place in the countries. the structure of enterprises is 98 per cent small and medium-sized enterprises with limited capital and information acquisition capacity. the delayed costs of transposing the acquis may continue to burden the new member states for many years to come. on the other hand, the current ten plus two enlargements also present some less pronounced general differences compared to the previous ones. the nearly 150 million people who have now joined the eu represent one third of the eu's population. in the period around accession, the economies of the older member states, unlike in previous enlargements, are less prosperous and are themselves facing reforms. what's very good is that in this merger, there are no two world systems. the responsibility of politicians is enormous. politicians who see the ep as an international arena for national political debate - though this is probably not their original intention - are hindering the union's efforts to solve its problems. we consider a european politician to be one who, at eu level, seeks to create a framework within which each member state can find the lever to take the next step at home. i wish we all belonged here. what are we gonna do? it's a clear, factual, political style that doesn't reinforce emotions, but rather calms them down. the rapid restoration of the internal market balance, which is the strongest guarantee for limiting the flow of labour. the improvement of the internal market, which is the operation of the administrative system in the new member states, means the self-imposed level of one and a half per cent in most of the old member states. further european laws should neither lead to distortions of the internal market (e.g. the services directive) nor impose huge costs on the economy (e.g. the rice directive), which would affect the weaker ones more severely. it is the responsibility of politicians and the whole institutional system to make the rule of law a daily practice that permeates the lives of europeans. a positive example is the small business unit of dg entreprise, which includes successful european information centres in hungary. a negative example is that the forms needed to indicate the differentiation of enterprises are still not available in the languages of the member states. a politician once said that people are not held captive by their fate, but by their beliefs. we have to do everything we can to change that, to stop the political ranting...
mr. president, i have to ask you... as president of the intergroup on traditional national minorities, i would like to inform the members of the european parliament that we have written to president josep borrell, in which we assure him of the intergroup's united support for the legitimate demand of our eleven catalan colleagues to use the catalan language in the ep plenary. this is in line with the spanish constitution and the request of the spanish state to the european council. this does not entail any additional costs for the ep: members undertake to submit their request one day before they speak in plenary, and i therefore ask president borrell, as a catalan, to put forward this request to the intergroup at the conference of presidents, so that catalan members can also speak in catalan in plenary in the future.
mr. president, i have to ask you... there are only a few hundred hungarians living in latvia. but if we believe in the rights of the human minority, then we must also speak out for their disenfranchisement. according to latvian law, non-latvian residents of latvia are practically not allowed to acquire citizenship. they can't vote in elections, they can't get passports, they have a hard time getting jobs, they're counted as stateless in the country they live in. unfortunately, most of the hungarians in latvia are among the hundreds of thousands of homeless. the latvian authorities explain this discrimination with stalin's crimes. i do not wish to take sides in the historical debate between the latvians and the russians, i understand the grievances of the latvian nation, but at the same time i reject collective punishment. for hungarians, this discrimination is in any case incomprehensible, because we hungarians were victims of the same stalinist oppression. i hope that my fellow mps will, in the spirit of our shared democratic values, intercede with their governments to end this discrimination.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, there is a funny hungarian saying about ‘throwing the baby out with the bath water’. i am sorry to tell you that is my opinion of the recommendation. the council common position is a realistic approach to the issue, understanding the problems of the different member states and their regions. the maaten report seeks to destroy this compromise, for instance deleting the ‘sufficient’ category. ordinary people understand that although some water may not be perfect for bathing, it is not dangerous either: it is just sufficient. this is what we call common sense. the self-cleaning capacity of a lake and that of a sea are clearly different. that is why the council has wisely set up different quality standards for coastal and inland waters; the rapporteur opposes this. the maaten report would tell member states in which language they should provide information on water quality. that is not a good idea. if some people decide to vote against the european constitution, it will be because of the kind of over-regulation proposed in this report and other things like that.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in my country, hungary, there is a saying that if a person goes beyond the goal with good intentions, he will end up doing more harm than good. she spills the baby with the bath water. the ep will do the same if it accepts the jules maaten report in its current form. balaton, my homeland and one of the largest freshwater lakes in europe, is the most important value of hungarian tourism. millions of people bathe and exercise in it every year, and if the bill is passed, it will be gone, along with the jobs of hundreds of thousands of people who work and live there. i certainly agree that we should aim for excellent water quality in european bathing waters. this is necessary for the health of those who want to relax and exercise, as well as for other environmental considerations. that is why we cannot accept the report's proposal to bring together again the quality standards for marine and terrestrial waters. i cannot agree that the parliament's report is tightening the limits compared with the council's report, even though there is no technical justification for this. i also find the water situation plans that are applied when water quality deteriorates to be a concern. if the indicators go above the health-hazardous limits, then bathing should simply be prohibited. it's been that way all along, there's no reason to change. i think it is simply unreasonable to require uniform information to be published in all 25 member states of the union in english and french only. instead, information should be provided to bathers in the languages most commonly spoken in the area. a good example of this is lake balaton and lake fertő in hungary, where german, austrian and dutch tourists are mainly found. as in the past few days, hours, a couple of new amendments to the parliamentary report before us have been tabled which make a positive contribution to the new legislation, i shall only propose the adoption of the report in its entirety if these amendments are adopted. this will prevent us from passing legislation that ignores environmental conditions out of pure goodwill, which will make tourism impossible in many regions and deprive millions of people of the experience of otherwise safe bathing and sports. so we can't throw the baby out with the bath water.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i welcome the fact that the european community has ratified the aarhus convention. it is a priority for us to provide a clean and safe environment for our citizens. a good environmental policy goes together with proper information on environmental matters, including pollution, possible dangers and the effects of environmental accidents. the european union has already taken important steps to update existing legal provisions in order to meet the requirements of the aarhus convention. coming from a new member state and as a former journalist, i totally agree with the importance of the aarhus convention. former socialist countries of central and eastern europe had a certain level of environmental policy, but it was strictly understood as a state policy without any kind of public participation. that is why people had such a negative feeling about the real state of play. the lack of proper information or environmental ngos led to degree of mistrust about actual environmental performance. even basic information on pollution was labelled a state secret. to be frank, some multinational corporations are still tempted to follow this practice today. in order to implement the aarhus convention effectively we need to look at all the details and content of each and every piece of legislation. for example, the pse group, with our rapporteur guido sacconi, is very active on the new legislation on reach and on the evaluation and authorisation of chemical substances. as regards reach, we urgently need strong legislation providing every possible piece of information to the public on the possible dangers and risks of every chemical substance. the same applies to gmo products, pollution release, the transfer register directive, etc. all this legislation must provide the public with the right of access to information that is of concern to it. if we ratify the aarhus convention, we must put it into practice in our legislation day by day. the forthcoming meeting to be held in almaty, kazakhstan, is very important. when we talk about access to information, the public must be sufficiently involved and informed. we should begin by looking at the discussion on the convention, where the participation of the parliamentarians of this house is guaranteed, as they are the representatives of the european citizens.
rapporteur.– mr president, cinema is the beloved child of european culture. it was born in the golden age of european civilisation, together with other scientific and important technological inventions. all that happened before the great wars period and before the illusion of the 19th century broke into pieces. cinema was born in paris, the capital of art, revolution and glamour at the time. in the space of a year the first films were shown all over europe in cafes, theatres and other public places. films and filming became a rapidly developing activity for thousands of mostly young men and women. in the first three decades of cinema history the european silent film conquered the word thanks to its artistic merits. the young american film industry was also pioneered by gifted european immigrants. the invention of the talking movie definitively changed the world of cinema. multilingualism proved a barrier to the marketing of cinematographic products and some might have felt that the linguistic richness of europe of which we are so proud became a disadvantage from a competition perspective. this paradoxical situation should be tackled through subsidising cinematographic products with national and european funds – not the film industry as a business but its cultural and linguistic plurality, which is the very essence of europe, needs that funding. every european government should do its best to defend our unique cultural richness, protecting and encouraging european cinema, which speaks to every european nation in its mother tongue. i welcome the strong commitment of our governments to maintaining the existing formula for subsidising cinema. film and filming is not only art and entertainment. after the second world war many destroyed buildings were reconstructed with the help of film sequences. the film heritage of europe covers every aspect of our life from the end of the 19th century to the dawn of this new century. the preservation of this heritage means the preservation of the memories of our culture and history, everyday life, big events, small tragedies and common joys. if the old films are lost, younger people are hardly likely to understand their ancestors’ lives. the national film archives play an important role in preserving our film heritage. if a film is properly archived its message will be saved for the future. that is the reason why i, as rapporteur, recommend the compulsory depositing of every european film made for public distribution in the archives. the national film institutes and archives of europe should harmonise and standardise their archiving systems. in doing so we can ensure that our film heritage will really become our common and public heritage. the digitalisation of european films, the setting up of a common database and the cooperation of the national film academies and archives serve a common aim: to save our film heritage and to make it accessible to everyone. this proposal, in the form of a recommendation, aims at ensuring a more systematic deposit and preservation of european films to safeguard europe’s audiovisual heritage. i believe that due to a very constructive approach by my parliament colleagues, mrs descamps and mrs gibault, the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, as also the inclusive and active role played by the luxembourg presidency, a good compromise for first reading agreement has been achieved. this dossier shows the added value of codecision and serves as a good example of how parliament and the council can together agree on a number of important issues that can make the initial commission proposal more comprehensive and effective. let me point to those issues to which parliament attached great priority and which were taken on board by the council. as a result of parliament’s approach, the deposit of films will, in all cases, be mandatory or compulsory, so that a systematic collection is secured throughout europe. there is now a definite time period within which member states have to adopt the necessary measures to ensure the preservation of the european film heritage. in order to ensure the quality of the deposited works, it is now a requirement that the deposited copy has to be of high quality. in order to make our common film heritage as comprehensive as possible it is stipulated that after a transitional period every film must be deposited and not only those that receive public funding. in order to know what collection each member state has, the report proposes a network of databases, where already functioning council of europe institutions such as the european observatory in strasbourg can play an important role. i believe that a good compromise has been found. i ask you to support the report to enable the first reading agreement, which would be in the interests of our common film heritage. i am grateful for the kind words of commissioner reding, from luxembourg. we both started our careers as young journalists, as film or theatre critics. it is good that we can cooperate on this report.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the revision of the directive is more than a simple legal step. because we know that the biggest difference between law and practice is in the world of work. the more resources a country has to mobilize to catch up, the greater the gap between the rules and reality. in the new member states, the compulsory working time is barely above the european average, but the number of hours actually worked is 112 per year, almost three weeks more than in the old member states. it is therefore particularly important for us to have clear boundaries between actual work. consistent involvement of the social partners in the shaping of local rules is important and it is important to strengthen control mechanisms at community and member state level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement for workers.
rapporteur.– i am sorry to steal two minutes from your lunchtime, colleagues, but i have to table an oral amendment. this is one of the first reports by a new member from a new member state. i would like to say thank you for the help i was given in this job. (applause)my special thanks go to french colleagues, from different political groups, who were very active in helping me. just before the french referendum it is important to understand the important and frontline role of france in preserving and saving the common cultural heritage of europe. they can be proud of their country. (applause)my aim was to reach a first reading agreement and the luxembourg presidency was very positive and active in this respect. if members adopt my amendments co-tabled by the liberals and the ppe-de shadow rapporteurs, there will be a first reading agreement in may in the council of ministers. i have one oral amendment to amendment 59. there are two extra words: ‘within two years of the adoption of this recommendation, legislative, administrative’ – and now comes the oral amendment – “or other appropriate measures ...’ thank you for your help and understanding.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in the new member states, fruit and vegetable production is a major agricultural activity. in this sector, it is particularly important for producers to act together, and this requires the development of organised cooperation, which is an essential condition for market success. however, the degree of organisation in the 10 new member states is still very low and the establishment of producer organisations for sale (pos) is slow and difficult. there is therefore a strong need to strengthen support for sezs, in particular by encouraging the establishment of sezs and giving priority to newly established sezs. to this end, the ceiling for aid in proportion to turnover should be raised from 4,1% to 6%. it is particularly important to create coherence between market support under the first pillar and rural development support under the second pillar for the octs. the eaggf guarantee fund cannot provide sufficient funds for infrastructure and investment development and it should therefore be possible for the octs to benefit from rural development aid. in the new member states, the fruit and vegetables sector needs to be restructured. the poor quality products from many aged fruit plantations, especially apple plantations, are also affecting the eu market, depressing prices and causing a crisis in the european fruit and vegetable market. it would therefore be important for the union to provide support for the removal of obsolete plantations and for restructuring. in order to stabilise the situation on the fruit and vegetable market, a school fruit scheme with eu support would be needed in addition to the school milk schemes, which exist in several countries. under the current regime, several products are excluded from market support, which is of strategic importance. we therefore call for the crisis prevention measures to be strengthened for berries, cherries and mushrooms and for them to be included in processed products, and for sweetcorn to be protected against chinese imports. thank you for mrs. fischer boel's letter. i hope you have found a solution.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the changes that have taken place in the cis region over the past year show that the post-soviet systems have entered a crisis, failing to live up to the hopes that were placed in them regarding economic, political and social transformation. in central asia, the most striking example of this was what happened in kyrgyzstan. unfortunately, we are forced to see that some leaders of color revolutions have again drawn the wrong conclusions, not trying to correct their mistakes that have become obvious as a result of the events, but blocking themselves, their countries and their people from possible ways out of the crisis. we regret to learn that events in kyrgyzstan have prompted the leader of neighbouring kazakhstan to take certain restrictive measures. the osce also expressed its concerns at the open forum on the draft law on national security and on the amendments to the law governing the conduct of elections. this is particularly regrettable in light of the fact that the international community has welcomed kazakhstan's progress in social and economic transformation, and in ensuring peace and harmony among different nationalities and religions. we were filled with great hope that kazakhstan would be the first in the cis region to be granted the honourable and responsible mandate of the rotating presidency of the osce. perhaps that's why it's unfortunate that the opposition newspaper respublika was closed down on the trumped-up pretext that zharmakhan tuyakbait, the opposition's proposed challenger, was subjected to two brutal physical assaults in a matter of months. the attacks of dozens of young people with no police presence cannot be a coincidence. we can only hope that the president is serious about finding and punishing those responsible. democracy means fair competition between political opponents, and attacks like this are incompatible with that. we must say that power everywhere has a responsibility to ensure that in its own country the conditions for political struggle are created with equal opportunities and clean means.
the struggle our fathers fought is resolved by peaceful remembrance and the settlement of our common affairs is our work; and it is not a small one. the words of the great hungarian poet, attila, born a hundred years ago, remind us that we, the peoples of europe who have been at war with each other for a long time, have much to settle with each other. in a letter to me and to the deputy prime minister, mr frattini, he recently said that your history is our history. as we celebrate the end of the world war in europe, we must not forget that the end of the war brought different things for the nations of europe. for the more fortunate nations, a long suffering, an immeasurable destruction, has ended in 60 years. so today we bow to all those who have sacrificed for peace. but on the other side of europe, another evil dictatorship followed, with no less suffering and destruction. two nights without day, occupation after occupation without independence, after an inhuman dictatorship without freedom. here behind me in our ranks is the slovak congresswoman, zita pleštinská, whose hungarian father, istván kányai, was persecuted by the nazis, the arrowseals, and then spent nine years in the hell of soviet concentration camps. to free an innocent prisoner from a cell and then lock him in another is not to free him, but to guard him. and the prisoner looks at him not as the one who set him free, but as the one who took away his freedom. for many european nations, the long-awaited freedom did not come until 50 years later, on may 8, 1945. he put an end to that on may 1, 2004, the day that marked the end of the yalta world order. world war ii actually ended on may 1, 2004. so the end of the war can be celebrated not in moscow, but here, in the capital of a reunited europe. for half a century, we europeans have looked at the wall, the barbed wire that divides us, from both sides. we have eliminated the intolerable system imposed by the soviet red army, which did not leave after the liberation, the genocide committed in the name of the progressive socialist idea, the class and national purges, the killing, torture, kidnapping and deprivation of rights of innocent people. the system of soviet communism imposed on the peoples of central europe was a direct consequence of the plan that stalin spoke of on august 19, 1939, before the politburo as a justification for the molotov-ribbentrop pact. quote: "the experience of the last 20 years shows that in peacetime it is impossible to maintain the communist movement in europe strong enough for a bolshevik party to come to power. the dictatorship of this party is only possible after a great war, stalin said. our nations have repeatedly rebelled against the dictatorship of the bolshevik parties. in 1956 in berlin, in october 1956 in hungary and poznań, in 1968 in czechoslovakia, in 1980 in poland. the west welcomed our revolutions, sympathized with us, and then tolerated when the soviet union beat and bloodily strangled these manifestations of freedom. dear house, our history is your history. yet we often feel, as nations that have been free from soviet occupation for a decade, that we cannot find understanding in our own recent history. the western half of europe was proudly straightened out after the war, and was on the road to peaceful prosperity. we're the ones who are left out of this, except for our own fault. the situation may be that today in the happier half of europe, but also in this parliament, there are those who want to forge political capital for themselves by intimidating their own population with the cheap citizens of the new members. with people whose country has been forced into economic bankruptcy by a dysfunctional socialist economy. but many in western europe do not understand how the five-pointed red star, like the swastika, came to symbolize hatred and oppression. our history is your history. six decades ago, nazism was defeated by the combined forces of the peoples of europe. the discredited political class is gone. today, no squares are named after hitler, and no statues are erected to nazi murderers. half a century later, the soviet union and its communist regime collapsed. similarly, the yugoslav communism without soviet occupation was a dismal failure. but the heirs of the failed communist system are today businessmen with a simple tongue, so-called responsible politicians, who demand respect. in russia, statues of stalin are being erected again today, and the soviet invasion is being referred to as liberation again. and the horrors of the communist dictatorship are less and less wanted. mr president, we cannot have double standards in our minds. auschwitz and the katyn forest, the nazi and two-time soviet occupation of the baltic countries, the unjust dictates that divide europe's spheres of interest, the borders drawn by force and pacts, the deportation of entire nations, the killing, torture, maiming, the disenfranchised population exchange, the walls that divide nations, the trampling of human and minority rights are all heinous crimes, no matter who committed them. sixty years after the end of the war, it's time to face it. the enormous human sacrifice of the soviet army demands respect and dedication. but no respect is due to the occupying army, which has imposed its own oppressive dictatorship on some of the peoples of europe. until we can judge an evil done in the name of any idea as evil, a murder as murder, until we can measure one crime by another, the war in our minds will not end, the wounds will not heal. jesus said the truth will set you free. now, with europe reunited, there is a chance for a new beginning. former winners and losers, oppressors and oppressed together, without humiliation, based on the idea of human dignity from the christian tradition, we can build a common democratic europe. with the hope of a better future and a happier generation. let's listen to attila, let's listen to the poet, and let's settle our affairs together.
author.– mr president, when i speak about the troubles of the mari el minority in russia, it is not my aim to blame, once more, the russian authorities. russia is not a member of our community. one can say that it has more than enough problems without my criticism. the situation of the russian minority in some european countries is also worrying - perhaps, sometime, we can discuss that as well. however, this afternoon we are talking about a small finno-ugric nation somewhere in the huge russia. around 750 000 maris live in the republic of mari el inside the russian federation. the autonomous republic is named after them, but they happened to become a minority in their own land. in a country with fair minority rights it is not a problem, but that is not the case in the small republic of mari el. the russian-speaking majority elected a russian president against a mari candidate, which can be understood. however, the re-elected president seems to lead an undemocratic and brutal fight against his opposition and, through them, the whole mari community. mari opposition newspapers can be printed only outside of the republic. opposition journalists and intellectuals have been attacked frequently; some of them have been killed. minority language education is threatened by the local authorities. we have to condemn those kinds of anti-democratic atrocities always, but in the case of a small nation, the attacks against the basic national institutions, such as schools and media, threaten the very existence of the nation. that is why we condemn the violence against the mari minority in russia, and that is why we ask the russian government to show the same kind of attitude toward its minorities that the russian government would like to be provided for the russian minorities elsewhere in europe. i believe this is the first time that the name of the mari people has been mentioned in the european parliament. i welcome them here, both as a european and a finno-ugric brother from hungary. i wish them all the best. they should know that a nation, small or big, inside or outside of europe, deserves the same respect and the same rights. i hope our russian partners also understand that every minority – russians out of russia and non-russians inside russia – deserve the same rights to save their identity, culture and linguistic heritage.
author. - mr president, i have to go. tsarist russia was called the prison of the people. the soviet union was a gulag of peoples. unfortunately, the collapse of communism did not bring freedom and rights to russia's small ethnic groups. vladimir kozlov, one of the leaders of the current opposition, told a conference last weekend that there is a real ethnic cleansing going on in the republic of mari, mostly in the administration, with the obvious goal of liquidating the autonomous republic of mari. no wonder he said that, since the president of the republic of mari is a russian national born in moscow, mr leonid markelov, who does not even speak the local language. during his presidency, attacks on the free press became a series of attacks, including on opposition leaders and journalists, including mikhail dolgov, his rival candidate, who was of mari nationality and who was severely beaten. it should be noted that no case has yet been decided by the courts. mari schools are continuously closed, and mari education is only allowed in primary school. the only language allowed in the administration is russian, so all this indicates that the rights of this minority are severely restricted. the eu-russia agreement, known as the roadmap, was solemnly adopted the day before yesterday. now we finally have the opportunity to not only condemn the practice in russia, but to directly help those living there. this roadmap will enable us to continue our cooperation in the field of minority rights, i.e. to promote the use of minority languages, the preservation of cultures, the publication of textbooks, exchange programmes, scholarship and fellowship programmes, independent media and mother tongue education through concrete programmes. this roadmap will now also include the strengthening of an independent and impartial judiciary. so here we must help russia to ensure that the guilty are punished and that order and security are restored in the republic of mari. i would like to ask the commission and the council to do this and i expect that under the new agreement we will take decisive and concrete action to protect the persecuted mari minority.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. russia, and before it, the soviet union, has always pursued a policy of homogenization, and the russian concept of power does not like diversity. throughout its history, the mari people have been relatively successful in resisting assimilation and have effectively fought for their own language and identity. after the collapse of the soviet union, mari el, the case of the mari republic, was looking up, but it didn't last long, maybe eight or nine years, when a new anti-diversity policy was launched from the russian side. the mari people's hopes of equal rights with the russians were dashed. mari is being pushed out of the public sphere, out of education, out of the media. mari activists are harassed, beaten, forced to leave mari el territory. in this situation, the intervention of the central authority would be essential, but there is no sign of it. there is a tacit acceptance of the indifference or anti-marian campaign. this year, the pressure on the marque has increased considerably. this proposal is a multi-dimensional signal to moscow that it has made commitments to its minorities to protect cultural diversity, not to eliminate it. secondly, to the russian-born elite in mari el, that in the 21st century it is not possible to start an oppression of minorities without being noticed. thirdly, the mari people are aware of the difficulties they are facing and the european public is ready to support them.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i wish to thank mrs malmström for her openness and cooperation in working out a balanced and productive parliamentary position. positive developments have recently taken place in eu-russia relations. we warmly welcome the adoption of the single package of roadmaps for the creation of the four ‘common spaces’ at the last eu-russia summit in moscow. we consider this a breakthrough in the eu-russia strategic partnership. we are both committed to multilateralism, which is the only solution to global problems. therefore, we should work together in reforming the united nations. we as european socialists regard russia’s ratification of the kyoto protocol as a highly positive step. we acknowledge russia’s constructive role in the fight against terrorism and in nuclear disarmament. we look forward to mutually beneficial energy cooperation with no added political motivation. we should support the accession of russia to the wto. however, we should not forget about divergences of opinion or disputes. we are deeply worried about the weakening of democracy in russia. we also call on russia to ensure better protection of national minorities. without a readiness to reach a compromise and start a reconciliation process there can be no chance of ending the suffering and developing a lasting peace in the framework of a wide autonomy for the republic of chechnya. the european union and russia can only develop a real strategic partnership if russia fully endorses the basic european values and principles of democracy, the rule of law and full protection of human and minority rights. it is in our common and vital interest to maintain russia’s democratisation, modernisation and european orientation. there is no alternative to a strategic partnership between the european union and the russian federation that is reliable, sustainable and mutually advantageous. (applause)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. in the current period of debates, referendums and parliamentary ratification of the european constitution, we have all heard the arguments about the union's democratic deficit and we are aware of the need to make the work of the community institutions more transparent and to bring them closer to the people. at present, the work of the eu's decision-making bodies is often shrouded in scepticism and apathy. and it's our job, our responsibility to change that. a careful definition of the fundamental rights agency's mandate and tasks, guaranteeing its effective functioning and promoting its role as widely as possible can be a means to achieve this. the union is now saying, quite timely, that if the development has started from a community of economic interests to a community of political interests, and this political community will have a constitution, and the charter of fundamental rights will be part of it, then the human rights dimension of the union must also be strengthened. it is the foundation of the union to give priority to fundamental rights in its policy. so let's have an agency that monitors whether these very well-formulated principles are actually being enforced, so that enforcement of fundamental rights is not just a matter of law, but a human-centred, everyday part of life. and allow me, mr. president, to continue in english. mr president, following the decision of the european council in december 2003, this own-initiative report seeks to set out the means towards the aim of extending the remit of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia and converting it into the fundamental rights agency. the committee and the groups agreed with my approach and although 120 amendments were tabled to the report, we managed to achieve 25 compromise amendments by which all the members of our committee have contributed to the development of fundamental rights within the union. this led to an absolute majority with only three votes against. the core issues during the debate on the report in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs focused around certain problems. one was whether a new agency should be established at all. the main argument here, especially on the side of the ppe-de group, was that there are already too many agencies that are not sufficiently cost-effective and that thereby many of the tasks of the european institutions, such as the parliament or the commission, would be delegated to agencies. i tried to make a clear point in this respect in my report. the credibility of the agency, and our credibility, will be ensured by its well-defined mandate and structure. the committee also asked that parliament should have a more important role in the structure, mandate and work of this body. as a main legal basis had to be found, we invoked article 13. but i must emphasize that this agency has to have a broader mandate, covering the charter of fundamental rights in its totality. therefore i ask the commissioner not to interpret this article only in a restrictive sense. we have to make the barely understandable legal language and structures clear, effective and operational and we need even more active cooperation between council, commission and parliament. i can see this agency cooperating, building the information it gathers on a network of networks, in which we can find a clear way through the jungle of european, national and regional institutions and centres dealing with human rights throughout europe. cooperation has to be a keyword in this field when we look at the council of europe. it is important to use and build upon what has been achieved so far in the council of europe, not only symbolically but also in practical day-by-day terms. it is important that a functional model of cooperation be developed, as was emphasised at the warsaw summit. i think that the agency could be a means towards this end. the protection of national minorities has become a very important issue following the enlargement of the eu, and it has become clear that the enforcement of minority rights cannot be achieved solely by fighting xenophobia and discrimination. one important issue, of course, is that equality of rights must be established and discrimination must not be allowed. but that's just one, and it's a superficial way of dealing with it. if we really want to understand the problem, we need to go beyond symptomatic treatment, to go to the root of the problem, to address it, to create a level playing field. this complex issue therefore requires a number of different approaches. therefore, a separate department of the agency should deal with traditional national minorities. monitoring the exercise of rights and finding a balance between the exercise of individual rights and the realization of collective security is a highly sensitive task and a great challenge today. the agency should therefore be at the heart of the european movement towards a better enforcement of fundamental rights and should draw on all existing experience in this process. the aim is to put fundamental rights at the heart of all eu public policies and actions, so that we can truly think of europe as a symbol of fundamental rights.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i think, along with many of those who have spoken before me, that we are witnessing a historic development when we see the eu go beyond its former limits and take up the banner of the promotion and protection of human rights. we should not be alarmed by the fact that this is taking place in an institutional form, and i think we should congratulate them on this initiative. i really agree with those who think that we have to put the protection of human rights in a political context, we can't do it any other way. but i would like to raise the question of how the different institutions can work together. i believe that the many institutions that the eu has created in the past or intends to create in the future must show that they work together in an exemplary way, that they reinforce each other and that they can do a really effective job with the help of other human rights ngos and civil initiatives that work with them. i am myself a member of the high-level working group on equal opportunities and i believe that the institute for equal opportunities, which will be set up shortly, should also be involved in this work. the work of the european roma forum, which specialises in the monitoring of discrimination, may also contribute to the success of this future institution. congratulations to the reporter.
draftswoman of the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleague for the valuable contribution concerning the social policy agenda. that agenda is very important to fulfilling the lisbon criteria and achieving a balance between economic growth and a social europe. i want to indicate the most important areas this agenda should highlight. i am convinced that our common work has been successful and that we have formulated a vision and a long-term strategy for a social europe. however, these were the first important steps, and we should now turn written ideas and strategies into practice. let me draw your attention to some important aspects of my opinion. first of all, the new agenda is a response to the renewed lisbon agenda. the socialists view the social policy is one of the cornerstones of the european structure. secondly, we should adopt a new inter-generational approach, incorporating into the agenda a drive to cope with the problems of socially excluded groups - not only the young generation, but also pensioners, disabled people and women. social dialogue is one of the most important of our aims. it is a matter of concern that it will be difficult for women’s ngos to access community funds, and we believe that a more comprehensive forward-looking framework strategy for gender equality is needed. the harmonised objective of regular, comprehensive and detailed statistics is needed in order to monitor the process of the implementation of tasks. we are aware of eurostat figures, but these are based on national statistical data. the enormous potential of small- and medium-sized enterprises should be developed and incorporated into the document, since smes represent over 90 per cent of enterprises in european economies and 79 per cent of employees belong to smes. additional community programmes are needed, as are national strategies devoted to creating favourable conditions, for example through special programmes. this could help greatly to create new jobs. i welcome the forthcoming establishment of the european gender institute, which will be able to monitor gender conditions in the member states.
as a member of the european parliament's committee on the environment, i would like to point out that the situation has not improved since our visit six months ago. especially not the minorities there. only in the last few weeks have serbs in the vojvodina beaten hungarians to death, simply because they spoke their mother tongue, which is also an official language of the european union. this would urgently justify the european parliament's monitoring of serbia, not only in the south slavic delegation, but also in the committee on foreign affairs, which has been absent since february. in addition, the unspecified allegations of the last weeks give the impression of a coordinated political attack against the hungarian leaders of the past. this is supported by the sentence in temerin, which became infamous for its unilateral excesses of severity, which only affected hungarian youth. war criminals are not treated as well by the serbian justice system. the reason for all this is that - as the parliamentary committee of inquiry has pointed out - minorities are not proportionally represented in the serbian judiciary and police, but in the public sphere. besides, the belgrade leadership is delaying the implementation of its promises on minority education. this also raises the responsibility of the european parliament and the eu institutions, because for example the interreg cbc plans do not give the autonomous province of vojvodina the status of an autonomous province although this province was autonomous until 1989 and yet it fully meets the requirements of the nac2 regions.
mr. president, i have to go. on 16 september, the european parliament adopted a resolution condemning the violations against the serbian minority, and a fact-finding mission led by mrs doris pack visited the country at the end of 2004. the delegation concluded, after objective and credible investigations, that the infringements existed, although they were not organised. but recently, we have been witnessing disturbing phenomena in the vistula. most alarming is that the recently appointed serbian prosecutor kasza józsef has filed charges against the president of the vmsz, the most important organization of the hungarian youth, to investigate the alleged abuses committed by him as mayor nine years ago. although charges have been made against joseph kassa on several occasions, they have not been proven. the timing of this is no accident. kasza was the most vocal opponent of the violence against hungarians in the past and worked closely with the ep's fact-finding mission. i ask mr. president and mrs. doris pack to be careful that joseph kasza, the president of the vmsz, is not the victim of a political lawsuit.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. in my present speech, i would like first of all, not as the chairman of the committee on budgetary control or as the spokesman for the socialist group, to appraise the extremely thorough, thought-provoking and forward-looking report by herbert bösch - whom i would like to congratulate warmly on this occasion - but to underline the importance, in concrete terms, in principle and in practice, of protecting the financial interests of the european union and of fighting fraud for hungary as a new member state and also on behalf of all the new member states. we are also involved in the use of the eu budget by the member states, and the organisation responsible for the proper and efficient use of eu funds is being built and finalised. we are also taking a concrete part in this process and supporting the fight against fraud and corruption, which protects the eu's financial interests. moreover, for general reasons of principle, it is not irrelevant to us what example these new member states and organisations set. already in preparation for membership of the european union, the modernisation of public administration and the fight against corruption received special attention during the accession negotiations. at the time of our admission, our position was considered acceptable, underlining that we have additional tasks to perform in terms of cleaning up our economy, cleansing our public administration of corruption. now, one year after becoming full members, it is very important that the public administration and the public can see, also through this specific report, the attention that the eu pays to the protection of financial interests and the fight against fraud and corruption, so that it can serve as a warning and a forward-looking example for us.
i can only congratulate mrs. schierhuber on her work. he has produced an excellent report which would be an excellent conceptual framework for allocating rural development resources, if there were anything worth allocating. compared to the commission's €88 billion, the latest negotiating framework of the luxembourg presidency proposes a drastic reduction, amounting to only €73 to €75 billion between 2007 and 2013 alone. this reduction is extremely serious for all member states, and particularly detrimental for the new member states, since we believed that it would offset the discriminatory agreements in copenhagen, as mrs fischer boel promised at her hearing. i know it's not up to him. this discriminatory payment system, in the light of the discriminatory system of direct payments, means that the agricultural aid per farmer in the old member states is eur 48 000 over seven years, whereas in the new member states it is only eur 14 000, i.e. three times more than the farmers in the old member states receive in direct payments and rural development over seven years than the farmers in the new member states. i ask that if this reduction is made, it should not affect the resources allocated to the new member states.
the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs is drawn up by the rapporteur. international terrorism is the biggest and most complex challenge facing liberal democracies. terrorism is primarily a threat to our security, but it is also a fundamental threat to our freedom. we must find ways to defend ourselves against terrorism, to protect our security, without sacrificing civil liberties, human rights and our freedom. the report by mr duquesne faces this dilemma and i congratulate him on it, because he knows that on the one hand the rapid and efficient exchange of information is the key to this whole problem, but at the same time it is precisely from the exchange of information that concerns can arise which relate to the protection of personal data. in this connection, mr duquesne makes a very good proposal - which i support - to set up a committee to monitor the development of this whole process. but even until we do, we need to be governed by the rules of countries that offer stronger safeguards for the protection of personal data for their citizens. secondly, we propose that we should also involve those countries - but in any case we should consider the possibility of involving them - which are not yet members but are candidates, so they will soon be members of the family, and those countries which are involved in this matter in our neighbourhood. finally, we propose and urge that the various international conventions and treaties relating to the fight against terrorism be ratified as soon as possible by the member states of the european union. unfortunately, many member states have not yet ratified many of these international conventions, so we do not have a single tool in our hands to effectively fight terrorism.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. the development of trans-european transport networks is strongly supported by both the previous and the current parliaments. a well-functioning european infrastructure is an important pillar of the lisbon strategy and an important condition for economic, geographical and social cohesion in europe. last year, 30 projects - including the marco polo and galileo programmes - were selected as priority projects to be financed by the community. these 30 priority projects will network and connect the 15 old and 10 new member states, eliminate bottlenecks, replace missing sections and give priority to cross-border sections, thus bringing the european transport network system to near completion. in our experience over the past decades, projects have either not started yet or have started very slowly, partly because of the low willingness of the community to finance them. does this new financial perspective change? yes, the proposals now envisaged under the new financial perspective allow community financing of 15% on average, in addition to which other innovative forms of financing have been developed. this could lead to a new type of financing system, which is more efficient than the previous one, requiring less funding from the member states, for the first time in the history of ten funding. so crowdfunding is actually going to be a catalyst. the standing committee is unanimous in its view that the funding provided is the minimum necessary.
as a member of the temporary committee on the financial perspectives of the enlarged european union, and as a delegate from one of the new member states, i would like to stress first of all how important it is for us that the european parliament's position on this important subject for the european union and the new member states is not taken up without us, but with our concrete and substantive cooperation. for the first time, we were able to take part in a very substantive, thought-provoking, sometimes tense, but certainly forward-looking debate in the committee, and i would like to congratulate mr reimer böge once again on his leadership and the balanced outcome. we are also aware that our participation not only creates opportunities but also responsibilities. it is in this sense of responsibility that we have tried to avoid over-emphasizing issues which, while they would help us catch up and thus help the european union to move forward, are not realistic in the light of the economic situation in the union today. instead, we focused on the details, sometimes technical issues, that are of the utmost practical and, at the same time, principled political importance for our catch-up. the most important thing for us at the moment is to have the structural and cohesion funds to help us catch up, without the technical restrictions that temporarily disrupt the new member states. we welcome the statement in the böge report that the union intends to allocate 0.41% of gni to this purpose, which can be used up to 4% of the gross national income of the new member states, and for the cohesion funds, apart from the n+2 rule. we believe that in this way the new eu budget, which is smaller than it has to be, will also help the new member states catch up, which, in addition to solidarity, will also help europe's competitiveness, growth and job creation.
the böge report is good not only because it is a great piece of work, but because it can serve as a pillar of a negotiation process and at the same time be a feasible compromise in itself. it can help to make the union's plans a reality, but it is not an unbearable burden on the payers. he dares to come up with new solutions to new situations. this is the national supplement that we have heard so much about, and which has already been tried out in our new member states. it is in the interest of hungary and all cohesion countries that 0.41% of revenue be devoted to catch-up. this can be used to develop research, to develop a knowledge society, to help build roads, to create jobs. all this breathes life into the lisbon dream. but will any of this come to pass? the question is not whether we can agree on specific figures with the council, but whether there will be a council resolution at all, whether the european council is the same as itself. if next week the heads of government are only to lament the results of the constitutional referendum and fail to decide on the basic principles of a financial framework for the benefit of european citizens, the union will be plunged into a real crisis, to the delight of eurosceptics. a common position in the interests of a new europe of 450 million people is in the interests of all member states. being closed off, being selfish, never gets you anywhere. the solution is not to turn away from the union, but to have more europe. can the failure of the referendum be attributed to the failure of the financial planning for the period after 2007? let us support the böge report, ladies and gentlemen, so that in this situation of fragmentation there is at least one point of certainty, so that the citizens of europe can see which institution represents their real interests.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr moraes on his excellent report and if the nationalists and homophobes come after you, mr moraes, do not be afraid, it will be proof that you have prepared a very good report. as chairman of the intergroup on traditional national minorities, i would like to stress the following points. firstly, the european union has no system for protecting national minorities. we must establish standards, legal and political standards for the protection of national minorities and for a monitoring system, a monitoring system as mrs bauer has proposed in her opinion. secondly, we must distinguish between the traditional national minorities of mr moraes' report and the migrant minorities of the council of europe. i proposed to name the migrant minorities as new minorities. fundamental rights are indivisible, but the obligations of the state are different: for traditional minorities, the safeguarding of identity and language must be guaranteed; for migrant minorities, integration into society must be guaranteed. thirdly, the relationship between non-discrimination and positive discrimination must be clarified in the european union. we have some non-discrimination clauses, but it's not clear. what is the relationship between equal treatment and preferential treatment? the rights of national minorities cannot be guaranteed without preferential treatment or positive discrimination. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your full support to this excellent report.
i do not think i am being cowardly, but i was honoured and pleased to have been involved in the preparation of this presentation and i am glad that the report has won the support of both the commission and the majority of speakers. the issue of immigration, the integration of immigrants, has long been part of the decision-making process of the european institutions. the tampere and hague conferences gave particular emphasis to the issue of compliance with the geneva convention, for which parliament adopted an historic resolution in the claude moraes report at the end of 2003. this presentation due to its sensitivity to the topic under discussion considers illegal immigration primarily as a security policy issue and analyses bilateral determination in the case of legal immigration. people from third countries need human life. giving this to the eu's member states is not just a human rights commitment, but also an increasingly well-understood economic interest. the new approach is inevitable in the relaunched lisbon process. the report's main merit is that it analyses economic immigration not in laboratory conditions, confined to paper, but in the context of the current economic and social situation. europe is ageing, its spare manpower is declining, but at the same time, unemployment is high, inactivity is high. the lessons of the french and dutch referendums show that citizens of the old member states also perceive the arrival of workers from the new member states as a threat on their labour markets, and xenophobia has always been a sad accompaniment to the debates. and facts are weak against emotion. data from the german research institute diw also show that economies that have not restricted the replacement of labour from new member states have seen a jump in their development. it is therefore economically reasonable that workers from the new member states should not be quarantined for another six years and should not be in the middle of the pack between workers from the old member states and those from third countries. the rapporteur's merit is that she avoids the temptation to adopt easy solutions such as the quota system or sector-specific reception. it offers tools for preventing human and economic conflict, improving foreign affairs, and providing effective information. it calls on member states to use legal instruments to reduce the vulnerability of some atypical workers. on the basis of all this, as a participant in the work, i would like to recommend to all of you the adoption of this report.
i agree that, in order to complete the internal market, the amendments also propose to facilitate the movement of excise goods. i also support the idea of eliminating the burden of proof for national tax authorities. i also regard it as a step forward that the current draft decision of parliament includes quantitative guidelines for the cross-border movement of excise goods. but the union is not only deepening, it is also expanding. this will lead to a significant increase in income and price differences between member states for a long time. in particular, on the eastern borders of the union, neighbouring hungary and romania, prices and incomes cannot yet catch up with those of the neighbouring countries with higher income levels for a long time. or if they do it with official prices, with the establishment of excise rates, then there will be a large proportion of illegal products in circulation. the clear and fatal consequence of this is that the movement of goods, which is in fact for commercial purposes, is nevertheless presented as a private purpose at each border crossing. the result is an organised movement of goods, with the carelessly used slogan of deepening the internal market. in hungary, for example, this not only results in a loss of state revenue from excise duties, but also harms retailers and producers of excise goods in general. another comment i have to make on the report is that the competition and the reduction of indirect tax rates are also difficult to reconcile with the objective of increasing the role of these tax rates in relation to direct taxation in order to improve our competitiveness. i think one of the lessons of last week's referendum shock is that enlargement of the union has not only long-term, beautiful, ideological effects, but also direct real economic consequences, which can be detrimental in the short term. it is not fair to impose these disadvantages on the immediate neighbours alone under the omnipotence of the internal market. it is true that in the case of large income and price differences, a transitional period should be allowed during which the internal market of the richer neighbouring countries, as established in the accession treaties for 2009, should continue to be protected, if necessary, by maintaining administrative thresholds and by maintaining control of those thresholds.
i would first like to congratulate mr laschet on his excellent report and the un working group, which also contributed to the report. reform of the un is essential, as it is the only multilateral organisation that can effectively and successfully address the challenges of the new era. the process of renewal includes a rethinking of the size, powers and means of the security council, adapting it to new challenges. the only possible way to solve our problems is an integrated approach taking into account economic, social, development, security and human rights considerations. we must not forget that the un reform agenda is closely linked to the joint security and institutional reforms that are the means to achieve the millennium development goals, and i welcome the decision of the development ministers to create the source of this. the successful implementation of the millennium development goals is europe's lifeblood in a globalised world. reducing poverty, effectively ending hunger and ensuring access to drinking water are all vital issues that need to be addressed without delay. threats are complex and complex, and the successful implementation of reforms is more urgent than ever.
like my colleague mr dombrovskis, i have asked to speak briefly on behalf of one of the new member states involved in this case. hungary is well known to be in the middle of europe, as we say in the heart of europe. this means that it lies at the crossroads of roads linking north and south, east and west. but this is not just trade; it is also smuggling, including cigarettes, drugs, and alcohol. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism and its consequences. we are therefore very pleased to learn that, thanks to the strong action of the european commission and olaf, this exemplary and highly significant agreement with the philip morris group has been signed. it is very important to us that although the agreement was signed on behalf of only ten member states, including the commission, it can be extended to new member states. this means that the benefits of the eu's and olaf's technical, financial and technical support in the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting are now available to us. we were pleased that olaf, in recognition of our special situation, had first contacted the hungarian authorities and is building this mutually beneficial cooperation, which protects european and hungarian financial interests together.
as with all new member states, hungary has a primary obligation and an objective in its own interest to meet the convergence criteria. in doing so, account should be taken of the fact that, in addition to the overall positive effect on the national economy, eu accession temporarily causes significant strains on the central budget. the payment of the contribution, the establishment and operation of the new network of institutions involve significant costs, while the non-payment of customs duties and other revenues and the application of the new, more flexible vat rules cause serious losses. moreover, the beneficiaries of projects supported by the eu, which are so important for the national economy, are not the budget itself but the municipalities, institutions and companies concerned, while the co-financing required for this is borne by the budget. we want to be successful members of a successful european union, and that is why we are undertaking these transitional tensions, which we ask you to take into account when assessing our performance.
the rapporteur. i am very pleased that the broad consensus on the social inclusion report has been reached by the political groups, almost across the political spectrum. it's not a coincidence. we are now less than a year into enlargement and it is clearly in the union's interest to have a greater impetus, both socially and economically. accelerating the process of social integration is not a secondary issue in this respect, as the evidence clearly shows that the new member states are lagging far behind the old ones in this area and there is therefore a lot to be learned. i think we can all agree that we do not want a two-speed europe, a union in which the social protection system is developed and of a high standard in one half, but in the other half it is full of holes like an enamel cheese and is deteriorating year by year because of the difficulties of public finances, budgetary problems, austerity measures and similar difficulties. if that were to happen, we would be in danger of social dumping, which we all regard as undesirable. it is therefore important that we make real progress in the area of social inclusion in the coming period, which is tangible for all. this is the only way to prevent further fragmentation of the social groups in the new member states. this would have negative consequences for labour market stability, economic performance and social cohesion, and would be the source of a number of additional problems. the report is a sort of inventory of the problems and gives a fairly accurate picture of the processes currently taking place. as regards disadvantaged groups, it covers almost all the social groups concerned, with particular attention to the situation of the elderly, women, disadvantaged minorities, including roma, the homeless, people with addictions, people with disabilities, vulnerable children and immigrants. it strongly emphasises the close link between education and training opportunities and the improvement of the prospects of the disadvantaged citizens who take advantage of them. in the limited time available to me, i would like to focus on just three of the key points in the report. the first essential element is that it is crucial for future catch-up to recognise the very close link between job creation and the economic policies that support it, and the social systems that are the main pillars of social inclusion. it is clear from this that a successful social inclusion policy can only be imagined if it is accompanied by, and built upon, appropriate economic policies. if we do not ensure that the two are in harmony, it will inevitably lead to failure in the social field as well. the second essential element is actually a structural problem. i am thinking here of the dangerously accelerated indebtedness of municipalities in recent times, which is closely linked to the inability of financing to keep pace with the expansion of the social tasks of municipalities. this is not only a problem in the new member states, but also a known phenomenon in the old member states. it is, of course, logical for governments to seek to address most problems at local level on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and it is a valid argument in this respect that most information is always available at local level. however, this requires financial means, which have unfortunately been lacking in recent years. as a result, we are now - and i would like to give you a warning example - faced with the fact that the combined debt of the municipalities of the four visegrad countries has already exceeded the psychological threshold of eur 10 billion. there is no doubt that this is a debt of a scale that at least provides a basis for common thinking. the third part is the question of cooperation. it is a fact, and this report does not deny it, that social policy is a matter for the member states. that's fine. however, the exercise of national competences is not at all prejudiced by the exchange of good practice, the sharing of information and, i would go further, the fundamental interest of all of us. we need to see that there are a lot of good initiatives, innovative, forward-looking ideas, successful projects, alongside serious problems. why don't we share these? unfortunately, the new member states are not paying enough attention to each other, so that what could become a common treasure is often hidden and not known to the others. there's no proper organizational framework for this either. i believe that substantial progress is needed in these three main areas, and i would like to thank the political groups and my colleagues once again for their very constructive and helpful support in the preparation of this report.
the report from the sentinel club has brought to our attention a very important problem. the low level of economic activity and partly employment in the new member states, the relatively small but nominally modest amount of money available for health care, and some specific weaknesses in the education system and the social exclusion of minorities pose a major challenge to the poorly prepared local administrations. put more emphasis on tasks linked to the inclusive and even participatory inclusion of disadvantaged social groups, as this is where our threatened social cohesion and our desired competitiveness lie. the lisbon objectives cannot be achieved without it. accelerating the process of social integration requires a change of approach; member states, local authorities, the market and the civil sector must all take responsibility: without prejudice! more financial resources than ever before will have to be devoted to this purpose. there is a need for more coordinated cooperation between the institutions. the 'no' vote on the constitutional treaty expressed a painful disappointment at the ability of europe to meet its greatest challenge, that of increasing competitiveness while preserving the social model of europe. the existing coordination system is not sufficient, nor is the expected added value of the economic research institute. a new project would be needed to find the european dimension of social policy in social care, to be of a high quality, to provide regular information to those concerned and to involve them. this could later be consolidated into a joint research institute, which would be an organisational expression of the very essence of social europe, and would examine the socio-institutional conditions for increasing competitiveness and tackling social issues within an innovation paradigm. the best social policy is undoubtedly a more balanced social redistribution of job opportunities and labour market training. this dimension, i can tell you from experience, is completely neglected in the new member states, where immigration is not yet reflected in the communication. the right to receive benefits, including pensions, in all member states of the union in a fair and non-discriminatory manner, irrespective of age, sex or nationality.
the rapporteur. i would like to ask if there is any way, given that there are very few of us in the chamber, of voting on the report not today but in the mini-plenary session in two weeks' time.
madam president, the last six months have been a period of success for the new member states, even if they have been the result of heavy compromises. however, this period was also marked by disappointments. we too have faith in the lisbon strategy, whose key principle, solidarity, is one of the fundamental values of the european left. this is very important, even though we know that these last days have not really been marked by such solidarity. this period was also experimental in the functioning of relations between the european institutions. despite the rapprochement, we are not entirely satisfied with the role that parliament has been able to play in this legally complicated and uncertain situation. those who have opposed the rapid ratification of the european constitution have not taken into account the fact that they are at the same time weakening the role of the european parliament: the advances of the constitution in this area have been replaced by the constant and complicated need for political compromises. however, the message from the luxembourg presidency was clear: no to a two-speed europe, yes to a social europe. the financial perspective was not one of the main objectives adopted at the outset. despite the efforts of the new member states, which were prepared to make many concessions at the summit, the budget debate did not lead to the desired success. but the president should not be ashamed of it. i am convinced that we will continue to walk together on the european road. i would like to believe that the small countries will also have a say in determining its course.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the president of the council is known throughout europe as an excellent and skilled negotiator. the reason we're standing here empty-handed is because we're looking for something else. many people here today talk about the crisis in europe, but that's not the case. this is not europe's crisis, this is the 15th crisis, and not just in a geographical sense. we need a new deal, and it's obviously not just about the money. some people want to talk about lisbon, about competitiveness. but let's do this. but all 25 of them. competitiveness is not negotiable in a vacuum. we need to review the rules on free movement of persons. it's already slowly falling apart. we cannot make the same mistake with the free flow of services as we did with people. when we couldn't solve something politically, we made administrative obstacles. some of you want to talk about farm policy. all right, but remember, we in the ten new member states are paying a heavy price. it is important that there is a financial agreement, but it is even more important that we do not again get bogged down with a lot of administrative obstacles in the use of money for the new member states, even though we seem to be moving in that direction. if a new agreement is needed, one of its pillars must be deepening enlargement in the enlarged union of 25. we in the ten new member states have been dynamically tackling the obstacles for a decade and a half, despite all the difficulties. and to enrich europe with this, which seems to be what is needed, all we need is for all 25 of us to want this deepening. so far, a year ago, we haven't seen much of a sign of that. but maybe now.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i hope you will not find this a late night to celebrate, but in the light of the report which i have already approved and endorsed, i would like to make a negative comment. this negativity is a phenomenon that can be described by a term that is becoming more and more familiar: e-vanity. the trautmann report is certainly right when it says that the development of ict should serve to strengthen democracy and the interests of citizens, so that they become participants and not mere consumers of the information society. that may be our only goal, but we must also see the obstacles. e-worthlessness is one such obstacle. today, for example, only one in four adults in hungary regularly uses the internet. and the vast majority of those who don't use the internet say they don't need it or just don't care. and this example is not unique. similar rates are found in most of the new states. for a significant proportion of people, the benefits and opportunities of the internet seem to be unclear. in these member states, service and infrastructure developments can thus easily become asymmetrical, as a large part of society is passive or disinclined to build systems at high cost, in the absence of adequate motivation. this can, of course, lead to asymmetries between the old and new member states. it is in our common interest to avoid this and to strengthen cohesion in this area as well. all efforts must therefore be made to strengthen e-invoicing by means of a communication network that is stronger, clearer and more comprehensible than ever before. in addition to the positive aspects, the emphasis is also on dispelling negative nervousness and misconceptions about the new medium. i hope that the report is a step in that direction, and i support it, and i would also like to congratulate mrs trautmann on her work.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as one of the first speakers from the new member states, i have to start by saying that neither the constitutional treaty nor the budget debate led to the crisis in the eu because of the new members. this was put together by the 15. i am convinced that the often stagnant european economy can be revitalised by the example of the dynamic new member states, which have made enormous changes in recent decades. jobs, growth, family and a safe europe for citizens. when we look for a way out, we start with the unjust and unjustified discrimination that still exists in the union. mr. prime minister, your country is one of the few that hasn't been intimidated by the workers of the new member states. the task is to remove, without delay, all obstacles to free movement of workers in the new member states throughout europe. you, mr prime minister, said that the common agricultural policy could not be maintained in its present form. but remember that the farmers of the new member states are still receiving only a fraction of what the old ones received. the task is to reform the common agricultural policy, but first of all to eliminate internal inequalities, to give the polish, hungarian and estonian farmers the same support as their austrian, french or british counterparts. the prime minister and president barroso also spoke about the need to make europe competitive. today, however, it seems that europe is afraid of competition. the challenge is to break down the barriers to the freedom of services, which make up the bulk of the european economy and which have only existed on paper. let's adopt the service policy. you, mr. prime minister, spoke of the renewal of europe, very correctly. we will begin the renewal together, all twenty-five, without unjust artificial and internal discrimination.
in recent weeks, there have been a series of unprecedented raids on the german state. the aim of the actions, which have been going on for more than a year with unchanged intensity, and which according to press reports are brutal, unjustified, illegal, violating the presumption of innocence and other general human rights, is the collective destruction and expulsion of hungarian companies from the german, that is, the eu internal market. the hungarian government protested and demanded an explanation, the persons concerned wrote to the commission and i myself, a member of parliament, put a question to the commissioner responsible. but no solution was found. now, together with my colleagues, i am writing again to urge the commission to act and even to take the initiative to put such and similar discriminatory practices by member states, which seriously infringe eu rules, on the agenda of parliament. i ask you, mr president, to follow the developments closely, because i am convinced that by hindering freedom of services we are not getting closer to, but on the contrary, further away from, our lisbon competitiveness objectives.
mr president, during the dramatic hours of the battle waged by luxembourg, at the summit, six new member states - poland, the czech republic, slovakia, lithuania, latvia and hungary - proposed a compromise to reduce the aid granted to them, in order to save the budget for the period 2007-13. it was not a purely symbolic gesture or a sacrifice: as new member states, we had every interest in having a budget for this period. without this new budget, the whole of europe would be a loser, but the biggest losers would be the ten new member states. we are continuing to contribute to the development of a compromise for the budget. the budapest formula proposed by hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány contributes to the same objective. this is not a new budget but a sort of life-saving 'sloop' based on the luxembourg presidency's proposal to save this year's budget. if the council is unable to reach a compromise, it will then have to draw up a budget for three years.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. in contrast to electricity, this special commodity, users generally have two requirements: it must be cheap and available at the desired time, quality and quantity. so are the citizens of the union, who expect guaranteed security of supply at stable prices. the question is therefore whether the directive meets this expectation. well, certainly not in itself. but there is a good chance that we are now taking a step in the right direction, in line with the rules and objectives that have been discussed and that will be discussed in the future, taking into account the aspects of competition and sustainability. you will agree that harmonizing these aspects is not an easy task. but we must also agree that there is a great need to promote security of supply, fair prices and sustainability, because many european citizens are not yet feeling the benefits of the single market. we could certainly cite many examples of this, let me cite the production blocks in central and eastern europe, which are often more than 40 or 50 years old, or the fact that a hungarian citizen, measured in purchasing power parity, is now paying two or three times as much for electricity as citizens of some of the older member states. that's the directive: chance. opportunity to expand transmission network capacity, opportunity to build new cross-border links and opportunity to renew production capacity. however, this opportunity must be seized so that the new regulation does not increase administration, does not increase the complexity of authorisation procedures, in short, does not increase the burden, but provides real help to the industry and ultimately to consumers. this is what the citizens of europe expect of us, and we cannot do less.
i have followed the debate on the draft cii directive with keen interest, both because of its importance (i am convinced that it is one of the most important proposals before the house) and because, in my career as a national or eu representative, i have never seen a draft legislation that has been so misunderstood and misinterpreted by so many people. we've heard so much about this directive -- about microsoft, about linux, about the interests of multinational corporations, small and medium-sized enterprises, clean software, open source and copyright -- that we've lost sight of what this is all about. the point is lisbon. it's about a knowledge-based economy and society. the point is, we have to be able to protect the knowledge that we create. and the primary market tool for protecting knowledge is patents. europe is ashamed that the european patent community has not been born, whereas it would be indispensable for knowledge and innovation to generate investment and profit. now we have an opportunity to move forward with the regulation of patents and to do something to redefine the protection of knowledge in the 21st century. it is naive to think that this directive is a completely new idea, offering a qualitatively different approach to previous legislation. it's not about revolutionary innovation, it's about acknowledging the simple fact that this is our modern world built on digital information and high-tech solutions, and these are so integral to our daily lives that without them, progress and technology are meaningless. we need this directive, mr rocard has done an important and commendable job in trying to re-frame the framework of the directive - it is not his fault that it has not succeeded, it probably could have gone this far. however, it is very important that the software patents directive comes into being in the form of a commission or with some amendments . without a directive, europe will be at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis all those regions which are not afraid to adapt their own systems to the requirements of the modern age. there are other ways to protect innovation. but patents are the solution that connects discovery to market exploitation, that elevates knowledge to an economic factor. we must not let this solution pass, because only a strong european economy can sustain the european values that we all represent in this house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture.– mr president, there is a set of very sensitive issues in the debates on structural and cohesion funds leading to conflicts of opinion that go beyond the political groups. most of the political groups are divided on the issues of the n+2 rule, vat and public-private partnerships. we must ensure that the poorest beneficiaries will benefit from the funds. it is important that the aim of simplifying the regulations does not hamper the poorest beneficiaries in their attempts to apply for funds. the reports as they stand regarding the rules on vat and ppp would have terrible consequences for local authorities wishing to apply for funds. these rules imply additional costs that the poorest beneficiaries will not be able to cope with. we are not requesting more money. on the contrary, we are just asking for the current regulation in this respect to be maintained. it is simply not fair to change the rules of the game now that ten new member states with lower socio-economic development have joined the union. this is not a conflict between the old and new member states, or at least it should not be. i urge you, therefore, to bear in mind the very principles of structural and cohesion policies. these policies were designed to help the poorest and not to create additional difficulties for the beneficiaries. we all acknowledge the fact that the union is currently facing an important crisis. we have to reflect seriously on what message our parliament will send at this critical moment. therefore, i urge you, in the name of solidarity with the poorest, to support the amendments tabled on the issues of n+2, vat and ppp.
these proposals come at a time of heated debate about the future of the european union, where we are going and how we are going to move forward. it is not just a question of whether enlargement should be successful, but also of the means by which the european union can meet challenges from outside, 'meet, as the council representative said, the challenges of the 21st century'. regional and cohesion policy instruments must play a key role both in 'digesting' enlargement - to use churchill's expression - and in responding to challenges. there can be no doubt that the main criteria for evaluation must be effectiveness and efficiency. but it is not possible to adopt rules, to force through rules, whether in parliament or elsewhere, which could put member states in a particularly disadvantaged position by making these points known. already at this stage it has become clear that a number of proposals have been included in these reports which are detrimental to the chances of the newly joined countries of using these resources. many people have already mentioned the m+2 rule, the vat issue and so on. moreover, these proposals have been introduced by changing previous practice by making the conditions less favourable or by not taking into account possibilities which are aimed at improving the competitiveness of a region or other lisbon objectives. we ask and call on the representatives of both the council and the commission present to come forward with proposals and to support and develop proposals which guarantee equal opportunities and equal rights for all member states in accessing the structural and cohesion funds.
the experience of the last 15 years of the process of transformation for the ten has been the abolition of national borders, the legalization of borders, the recognition and application of democratic european values such as subsidiarity, solidarity and regionalism. as robert schumann dreamed, national borders no longer separate us from one another. we are not uniting countries, but regions and citizens. the regions want common objectives, organised cooperation and the possibility of deciding directly on cooperation and the resources needed to implement it, in the spirit of subsidiarity. this will make europe more democratic and economically more efficient. we welcome the commission's efforts to take into account the regions' request and the principle of subsidiarity in drafting the legislation, and we appreciate the complex and multi-faceted legal consultation that it has undertaken to allay the preliminary concerns of national governments. my group understands the council and member states' caution regarding the competence of the new organisations and the declining participation of central government bodies and is prepared to continue the conciliation work. the europe of the regions is diverse, with different levels and forms of public administration. therefore, gect is an optional option. why not live with it? now that integration, the common european project, seems to be stalling, it is particularly important to represent local, regional interests. an example of successful cross-border cooperation is the immediate response disaster response cooperation between steiermarkt and bavaria for avalanche dampers, which does not operate on the basis of time-consuming formal procedures but rather allows the injured parties to turn to each other for help in a simplified way. imagine what could happen without a regional agreement. they could have asked their central government for formal approval first, and only after they had the decisions, the permits, could they start to give aid; it's bad to think about. my group drew parliament's attention to the parallel preparatory work of the council of europe to draft the triple protocol to the madrid framework convention, also entitled 'euroregional cooperation organisations' which indicates the common objective of the two regulations. i commend the rapporteur's work, consider the compromise proposals useful and recommend the report for adoption.
after the obligatory but heartfelt congratulations to our rapporteurs, i would like to raise very sharply what has already been discussed by others: the question of vat refunds. i represent a region of my country that is perhaps the poorest. i know that there is a certain logic behind not supporting community money for expenditure which is actually revenue for the member states' treasuries. i'd like to show you the other side of the coin, though. the municipalities that, on our side, plan to get involved in development and take things forward through the structural policy of the union will fall short of the opportunity to apply, if they are even burdened with this, because of their poverty. i ask that you give careful consideration to how you decide on these amendments. let's keep the rules the way they are. and i would like to make another point: the rules of the union are changing all the time, and we, the representatives of the new member states, feel that these changes are increasingly happening to our detriment. this process must be stopped, because if it continues, enlargement will not be a success but a huge spread of euroscepticism and extremism. i ask my fellow mps to behave responsibly and consistently. what has worked so far should remain and not try to push the poorest regions to the periphery.
for the first time, urban public transport is included in the cohesion fund regulation as an objective to be supported. this is something that the transport committee welcomes and supports. however, it is important to clarify the proposal. in the case of urban public transport on fixed lines, we must also include vehicles outside the track, or as i have put it in the technical language of my amendment, so-called rolling stock. without it, the giant would have one arm. similarly, the bus route, i.e. the routes on which the main bus traffic is carried out, must be understood and listed here. so what are we talking about? the fact that the track and the vehicle need to be developed together to achieve results is inseparable. we are trying to reduce congestion in our big cities by offering more attractive public transport. well, for the big european cities which are eligible for cohesion aid this proposal will be a real improvement and a real step up, and i ask for parliament's support. we also recommend that the transport committee extend the objectives of the cohesion fund to motorway-type connecting sections which connect major cities in a region to the trans-european network. cities are key settlements in each region and are the primary drivers of cohesion. a proper infrastructure link in these cities can significantly increase the existing competitiveness potential and thus serve cooperation. i would ask for the full support of parliament.
mr president, it has certainly been a long and difficult job to collect all the relevant information and data in order to compile such a detailed report concerning the situation of turkish women in real terms. we have been considering countless problems, many of which are encountered in all spheres of life in turkey in the areas of women’s rights and gender equality. although turkey has started to meet the challenges on a legal basis, the real transposition of principles into everyday life still lies ahead. turkey, which has been applying for eu membership and regards itself as a potential candidate, should respect fundamental human rights and the acquis communautaire in the fields of human rights and gender equality. the turkish government has proved its strong commitment to european principles and values by creating a new penalty law to protect women’s rights. i offer my congratulations. it should be recalled that we have proposed designating 2006 as the european year of action to combat violence against women. turkey should join in with this, both in principle and in real terms through concrete and visible action by taking steps not only against violence but also towards implementing gender equality in other areas. a strong political will for implementing gender-equality policies is not the sole means of gaining success. it should be obtained by overcoming many other obstacles, such as traditions, patriarchal social structures, religious aspects, habits, educational, employment and family values, standards and stereotypes all of which hinder progress. this is a big challenge, since these structures have been built up over centuries and it is not easy to implement reforms all at once, but if turkey intends to approach and join europe, it should respect european values as well. we strongly believe that the turkish government will be embarking upon taking steps towards implementing our recommendations. it is in our common interest to monitor the progress made in order to get a real picture of the situation.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. equality between men and women is a fundamental right and a priority in the european union. the community's policy on equal opportunities has been on the community's agenda since the beginning of european integration, albeit with a changing content. the directive which will hopefully be adopted tomorrow will summarise the directives already adopted on this subject, thus expressing the legislators' intention to consolidate in a uniform, simplified form all that has been achieved so far in this field. the very important element of the directive is that it no longer only aims at equality between men and women, but also at equality between women and men. it is important to emphasise that the principle of equal opportunities cannot be restricted to employment, as it affects all areas of life. this principle requires that there should be no discrimination on grounds of sex, in particular by reference to marriage and family status, and in particular in terms of access to social security schemes, the obligation to pay contributions and the calculation of benefits. as one of the main causes of inequalities in employment is the traditional role of women in the family, the directive urges the development of more flexible working hours in workplaces, allowing both men and women to take on family and work responsibilities together. the directive aims to promote the effective enforcement of rights of victims by reversing the burden of proof in cases of discrimination and by prohibiting indirect or hidden discrimination. the directive also draws the attention of the member states to the fact that the elimination of women's disadvantage is unthinkable without the active involvement of their governments and that, in addition, democratic institutions are needed to monitor government work. there should be institutions, both within and outside the governmental system, that are dedicated to guaranteeing women's rights.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and draw your attention to a few points. i believe that the establishment of a coherent, uniform european framework for private international liability in civil and commercial matters is an important step in the further development of the area of freedom, security and justice in the field of internal and judicial cooperation. we see that economic and civil mobility has increased in the single market, which means that compensation liability issues, which fall within this area and which may involve more international elements, are now a common occurrence. the harmonisation of the legal rules applicable to these matters at european level is essential in several respects and i believe that this regulation has done so. this is of paramount importance for businesses, as the single rule provides them with legal certainty, predictability and predictability. it also benefits citizens, consumers, potential victims and victims, by laying down provisions to protect them and by making the legislation applicable to them more transparent. all of this contributes to bringing the european union closer to its citizens, including through legislation. the proposed legislation has the particular merit of taking into account and at the same time facilitating the interpretative work of the european court of justice. i would like to draw particular attention to the wide range of regulatory issues covered by the proposed regulation, ranging from consumer harm, product liability, road accidents and environmental damage to good repute. the european standardisation of the responsibility required by the international environmental catastrophe is particularly important to me as a hungarian representative. you remember the earlier case of cyanide contamination in romania or the verespataki investment. i repeat, the regulation has made significant progress in terms of legal certainty, predictability and transparency.
madam president, this is a tragic and dark day for the new member states, which are facing new discrimination. as regards the reports by mr hatzidakis, mr fava and mr andria, the rules of the game have been changed. the possibilities for using the structural funds for the new member states have been changed and severely restricted by the direct change in the rules of the game with regard to the n+2 rule for the cohesion fund, with the refusal of participation by the private sector. this is discrimination against local authorities and civil society organisations in the new member states. all the members of the new member states voted unanimously to defend their interests and this is discrimination and a lack of solidarity on the part of parliament. this is a very bad message for the new member states.
on behalf of the alde group. the european parliament has voted overwhelmingly in favour of maintaining the chinese arms embargo. this embargo shall remain in force as long as the reasons for the order remain in force. for example, while over 100 of the tiananmen square protesters are in jail. the examples show that economic relations are developing despite the embargo, so this in no way affects economic relations, but should be a guide for political relations. i personally trust the british presidency's position, and i have found that the united kingdom has a clear, clear position on this issue, and i congratulate it on that. the other important issue is that taiwan has been trying to get observer status in the world health organization since 1997. it is rejected every year, unfortunately it was rejected this year, and unfortunately it was rejected with the cooperation of the member states. and i think that the 23 million people in taiwan are entitled to the same level of safety and protection that the world health organization can provide for them, but the reverse is also true, we need the knowledge, the experience and i have to say, the financial resources that taiwan can provide for us. it is completely incomprehensible why taiwan's request is being denied. i don't want to question the one-china policy, but this has nothing to do with that. taiwan is still involved in a number of international cooperation projects, including the international trade organization, apec and other international organizations. at the same time, the holy see, the order of malta, the red cross, the red crescent, and even the inter-parliamentary union have observer status with the world health organization. after all this, it's completely absurd that taiwan is rejected. i ask the presidency and the commission to convince the member states to accept taiwan as an observer in the world health organization next year.
in order to preserve the security and further development of the far east, i would like to call the attention of the governments of those countries which still have territorial disputes to settle them as soon as possible in the form of bilateral negotiations. today, the still-emerging differences over the second world war indicate that the region has yet to face and process its historical past. one of the issues of security in the region is the anti-secession law adopted by the people's republic of china in march 2005. i believe that it is important to preserve the status quo in the region and i support a peaceful settlement of the issue through dialogue between the parties, keeping in mind the "one china" principle. i regret that in february 2005 north korea announced that it had nuclear weapons, that it would withdraw from the npt and that it would suspend six-party talks indefinitely. i would like to make it clear that i continue to see the six-party multilateral negotiations as the primary framework for the settlement and the resulting principled agreement on the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free korean peninsula. i hope that north korea will soon reconsider its position and return to the treaty framework with the provision of international guarantees.
on behalf of the pse group. first of all, i would like to thank mrs zimmer for her excellent report and her great work, as well as the cooperation of the european investment bank. i believe that it is the responsibility of all of us to identify and address the problems of the developing world. i welcome the policy of the european parliament, the commission and the uk presidency on this issue. the third world must not only rely on aid, but must be given the opportunity to revive their economies. instead of economically crippling them, we must create a way out. i would like to draw your attention to the following points which are being implemented through the lending activities of the european development bank. the european development bank supports the objectives of the european union as set out in the cotonou agreement and in the framework of the eight millennium development goals. it is important that the bank already takes into account the views of non-governmental bodies and the public at the project monitoring stage. meanwhile, the environmental impact assessment and environmental impact statement are integrated into the project cycle, with a focus on the social and employment consequences of investments. this is backed up by a comprehensive anti-corruption policy, open and transparent negotiations and a series of contracts, as clients need to have adequate internal audit systems in place to detect bribery. finally, i would like to highlight what i consider to be a priority issue: the development of private sector lending will also make it possible to monitor respect for human rights, ilo workplace standards and oecd guidelines. i believe that only those tools are worth using that will produce effective development, and not just provide temporary solutions to the problems of the developing world.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank you for your remarks and comments on this important report. your contributions clearly confirm the importance of the issue, the essential role of cooperation between the private and public sectors, but also the need for a thorough analysis before any subsequent decision on possible legislation. i think this is in line with the commission's approach to the internal market. new legislation is justified only if the economic and social benefits are clearly established. we look forward to continuing discussions and exchanges of information with parliament as more concrete results come from the various expert groups and our impact assessment exercise. in conclusion, the commission is satisfied with the final report which will be put to the vote tomorrow in plenary. we think he's balanced and open. it supports our impact assessment exercise and is open to further substantiated proposals that the commission could make on the basis of the results of the impact assessment.
member of the commission. mr president, it is a great pleasure to be with you here at this hour. i am sure we all agree that quality compensates for quantity. the urgent item concerns the elections that took place in bulgaria on 25 june this year. it is in the interest of bulgaria to rapidly form a stable coalition government capable of delivering on the reforms necessary for eu accession. whichever coalition is formed, work must continue in bulgaria towards meeting all commitments made during the accession negotiations. we understand that there is a broad consensus across the party political spectrum on this objective. the new government should present an eu integration programme for implementation on all pending issues. i also note that president parvanov yesterday signed a degree recalling the parliament for monday, 11 july, even though, under the constitution, he had until 25 july to do so. so, encouragingly, there are serious efforts to keep the preparations moving on and to limit as far as possible the interruption caused by the elections. we also understand that there are plans to keep the parliament working through the summer holiday period to allow progress in the key areas of accession preparations. in my speech to the bulgarian parliament some weeks ago, i encouraged the members of the bulgarian parliament to use part of their summer holidays for urgent legislative work and take off for the black sea coast only once the eu-related work has been done. i am glad that the response was positive and glad to find this kind of european motivation in bulgaria. it is the sovereign decision of the european parliament to decide on the granting of observer status. however, representatives from bulgaria and romania can play a key role in informing their citizens on eu matters, as well as informing us about their countries. that is a case in point of the evolving european democracy, which is a very dear objective to this house. since the closing of negotiations in december 2004, both bulgaria and romania have continued to make progress in meeting the accession requirements. however, the commission’s ongoing monitoring exercise clearly shows that they can spare no efforts. ensuring compliance with the accession requirements by january 2007 will pose a real challenge over the next 17 months. every day, every week and every month counts for both bulgaria and romania. for bulgaria, progress in the fields of justice and home affairs, the environment and agriculture will be of decisive importance. similarly, in the case of romania, progress in the fields of justice and home affairs, especially the reform of the judiciary system and the fight against corruption, competition and state aid, the environment and agriculture will be crucial. in june, the commission sent early warning letters or ‘yellow cards’ to both bulgaria and romania in which we indicated areas of serious shortcomings. there were five such areas for bulgaria and seven for romania. in conclusion, for the moment the jury is still out. the commission will continue to monitor both countries’ progress closely and there is a constant flow of commissioners and commission officials to both bulgaria and romania. they are there not for fun but for serious monitoring and the commission relies on its characteristic objectivity and professionalism in the monitoring exercise. the next significant step will be the comprehensive monitoring report, which will be issued on 25 october. that will be an extremely crucial checkpoint for both bulgaria and romania. i will underline what both president barroso and i have said, which reflects the position of the commission. if necessary, the commission would not hesitate to recommend the use of the safeguard clauses of postponement provided for in the accession treaty of bulgaria and romania.
on behalf of the pse group. i'll start by rejecting what my colleague karas said about misinformation. i come from a new member state, hungary, which was able to participate in the work of parliament as an observer after the signing of the accession treaty. we want to keep it that way. as both romania and bulgaria signed the accession treaty on 25 april, i believe that they too have the right of way from that date. the second point i would like to make, also to my colleague, is about how seriously we take ourselves. the conference of presidents - a democratically elected body which we have in this house - decided on 9 june to send the invitations to the representatives of the two countries in question. i think we will take ourselves seriously if we keep our word and, in the light of their letter, welcome our colleagues to the house on 26 september. i also think that on 25 october, when the national report is due, we would be very pleased (and you would be too) if these members could take part in the work of the sitting as observers. only then can they bring home firsthand news of where the flaws are. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the council. if they know what the problem is and how to fix it, if they know what the suggestions (or reservations) are, whether from the people's party or from the other side, about them: if they are here and we can work with them. i think we should welcome them and agree with what commissioner olli rehn said about readiness. 18 months is a long time. we had less time, but the main reservation about the two countries is that they are not as prepared as the last 10 countries that joined. so i think 18 months is not a long time in their case. by the time they join on january 1, 2007, they will have to learn the work we do here: taking each other's words to heart and taking each other seriously.
there is no doubt that the accession process must not stop, since we all believe in the need for romania's accession as the only viable way to finally offer an acceptable future to this population that has endured so much hardship. it can offer a solution to so many unresolved problems, thereby freeing many romanian roma and non-roma children from the danger of poverty, or thereby protect the environment, so that the issue of verespatak hopefully can be solved in a european way. or it could be autonomy for the hungarian community in romania. parliament should play a key role in this process. we must be resolute in our demands for accountability, for concealing problems does not bring us any closer to solving them. the commission's october report is the last opportunity to resolve the remaining dilemmas. the question is so serious and our task so responsible that it cannot be allowed to become a subject of partisan battles. the joining process must not stop. however, this accession is only worth something if all the romanians - and thus the 1.7 million hungarians - who live there are also the winners. to make this more than just a nice word, it is essential to keep your promises. they will bring romania the much needed modernization at all levels of the country. that is why you have a great responsibility, commissioner, when you prepare the report, and we have a great responsibility to parliament when we are hopefully faced with a decision on your report again. these are the real issues. as you said, officer, "every day, every week, every weekday counts".
after the news of the bombing of the president of the association of hungarians of the past, joseph kasza, i went to the scene last week. i have personally verified that the hand grenade was indeed intended for joseph kasza. i have to say that the attacks on national minorities in the northern province of vojvodina, serbia and montenegro, right on the border with the european union, have not stopped. in fact, the situation has worsened. it is the responsibility of the european parliament to take into account the facts in such a documented case of violation of minority and human rights, and not the self-righteous statements of the responsible serbian politicians concerned. this is particularly true for a country with which the eu is preparing to open association negotiations in the autumn. the european parliament also has a responsibility to use its budgetary powers to use eu aid to serbia and montenegro as a tool for the protection of minorities. the ep also has the responsibility to regularly monitor which states the eu allows to come close to it. finally, the european parliament has a responsibility to remember that, together with mr józsef kasza, another 300,000 hungarian and other ethnic minorities in the vichy region must be protected.
i would like to protest on behalf of the nine languages of the ten new member states, because they are discriminating against the new member states again. in july this year, epso launched a call for tenders, which would have seen recruiters from all 25 member states being examined simultaneously for the first time. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to take on 700 new administrators - civil servants in eu terms - but only the languages of the 11 old member states are included in the list of language requirements. this means that a dutch colleague can take the examination in dutch, but a hungarian, polish, czech, slovak, slovenian, estonian, latvian, lithuanian and maltese applicant cannot take the examination in his/her mother tongue, but only in one of the 11 old member states' languages. this is open discrimination, contrary to the spirit of the european union. i ask the president - and i have written to him - to take immediate action against discrimination.
mr. president, thank you for mentioning natural and other disasters. i would like to talk about the floods that are affecting central europe. tens of thousands of people were affected by overflowing rivers and heavy rainfall in germany, switzerland, austria, slovenia, romania, bulgaria, and hungary. the situation is undoubtedly most serious in romania, which suffered catastrophic damage in july and august following spring floods. the flood, which affected 34 counties and claimed many lives, submerged 575 communities, homes, hundreds of miles of roads, 83 schools, 29 kindergartens, hospitals, and churches. the material value of the damage caused by the natural disasters in romania amounts to eur 1,5 billion. on behalf of the hungarian delegation, it is our moral duty to support the people of the area with all our means. the huge cost of restoration is beyond the capacity of romania, the poorest country affected, to bear. it is therefore necessary that the european union solidarity fund should provide it with the assistance it needs for its recovery tasks as soon as possible. to that end, i ask your honourable support.
mr president, reflecting on my speech concerning the situation of the ethnic hungarians living in latvia, mr zīle of latvia accused me of ‘telling lies to this parliament’. i come from a different political culture and do not use phrases of this kind about a fellow parliamentarian. i am sure he is just an innocent victim of a misunderstanding. after his intervention, i had the opportunity to talk to the leaders of the hungarian minority of his country. i understand that for hungarians living in latvia, it is nearly impossible to pass the so-called citizenship exams, despite the fact that they have been educated there. on the other hand, those from other ethnic origins – latvians and some other baltic nations – have free, or almost free, access to citizenship. that is what i referred to and is what i called an unfair policy. generally speaking, any kind of ethnic discrimination is against the basic democratic ideals of this union, but in the case of hungarians, even the historical arguments are missing for such discrimination.
i have listened with pleasure and attention to this debate. it was not the subject that was pleasing, but the attitude which the commissioner and my colleagues have taken on this serious matter. i am following this debate not only because the region i represent - for example the village of mad, an important site for the production of tokaj wine - has suffered serious damage, and because the damage in my neighbouring country, romania, has reached an astonishing scale, but also because i feel that we need to do something more here in the union than we have done so far. as to the extent of the damage in romania, let me tell you about the village that was washed away by a two-meter-high wave after a 20-minute rainfall. i don't think i need to explain that any further. in such cases, immediate rescue is required. if civil defence forces could be deployed at european level to help, even the eurosceptic citizens of the union would easily see that the work we are doing together makes sense. after the rescue, the reconstruction, which requires money. we have funds, but i agree with those who have said that we probably need to re-regulate how we use them. it is unacceptable that an aid does not reach the beneficiary within a year, or even that it takes close to a year, as is the case in slovakia. finally, many have spoken about the issue of prevention. i think that this is the area where the eu money should be spent most. this is where they can be most effective. i agree with the previous speaker, who said that it was very important to think about forestry in this way. but this is not a matter of the mps' whim, it's a matter of deep analysis. i therefore support my group's proposal to set up an ad hoc committee to look into the matter.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for standing up at second reading for a strict regulation that takes account of the values and interests of people and the environment. we urgently need this directive to cover mining waste containing cyanide and heavy metals and other waste which is harmful to the environment, even in terms of its physical quantity. consider the disaster in the great mine of romania in 2000, called by some simply the cyanide tsunami, or the pollution in spain in 1998. in both cases, large quantities of hazardous substances were released into the living waters, causing enormous environmental damage even to neighbouring countries. the regulation before us has significant merits. it strengthens the permitting procedure, puts greater emphasis on prevention, requires the development of a detailed waste management plan, increases the availability of information on mining waste, extends the financial guarantee for the activity to a larger area than before, and requires mining companies to ensure the complete rehabilitation and monitoring of the area even after leaving the area. however, i believe that the most important and most forward-looking thing is that, in view of the recent accession of romania and bulgaria and the large-scale mining projects being prepared and under way there, which also endanger the environment and neighbouring countries, the new directive should be taken into account by the new members as soon as it enters into force. i therefore ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments which are strict and aim at protecting the environment, thus taking a big step towards safeguarding our environment and avoiding disasters.
mr president, five years ago there was an appalling incident of cyanide pollution on the river tisza caused by a gold mine in baia mare, romania. before this incident, the term ‘environmental policy’ had been nothing more than a strange phrase for many ordinary people living on the two banks of the river – for peasants, shepherds and fishermen. after 30 january 2000, they understood the meaning of ‘environmental policy’: to prevent pollution of this kind, in which 100 000 m3 of hazardous sludge leaked into the river tisza, destroying its flora and fauna. i do not like to speak in terms of money when we are talking about the value of nature, but the centre for environmental studies estimated that the loss of revenue suffered by commercial fishing and tourism was around eur 18 million in hungary alone, not including the loss of natural heritage or environmental damage. that is why i welcome this report. mr sjöstedt did an excellent job: as well as writing a good report, he went to baia mare, romania, where he visited the site of the pollution. he met the people living, working and suffering there, and his local experiences are integrated into the report. this legislation should be strict and well integrated into other community policies. i have tabled three amendments which were supported by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and i hope they will also be supported by this plenary session. my aims were to clarify the requirements of the directive by giving references to the water framework directive and the groundwater directive, to prevent the discharge of environmentally harmful mining waste into any body of water and, last but not least, to promote waste prevention as the primary means of waste management. i hope this legislation will give us a 100 % guarantee against any kinds of mines producing cyanide or other pollutants, either in member states or in applicant countries.
the events have gone over the heads of the legislators. european citizens rightly expect us to respond quickly and flexibly to the events of the recent past. i therefore support the introduction of a community-wide list of air carriers which do not meet safety requirements. i support the establishment of a community-wide list based on common criteria. i urge you to regulate in an expedited fashion, as soon as possible. there are many reasons, and i'll add another one. recently, various unofficial lists have also been published, for example, on the front pages of a major french daily or on the internet. this process can have unforeseen consequences, can cause uncertainty for travellers, can be confusing and can lead to misinformation. in some cases, a national air traffic control or airline that has been audited and guarantees adequate safety has been included in the daily newspaper's list. this is unacceptable. i therefore urge that the regulation should enter into force almost immediately after its adoption and that recommendations be made for the transitional period on the lists to be officially published at national level. i welcome the commission's initiative to extend the agency's mandate and to speed up the legislative process.
the rapporteur. the european parliament has been involved in the development of the galileo satellite navigation system from the outset and has contributed to its implementation and design by contributing to the regulation. the galileo programme will bring about the community infrastructure that can be rightly described as 'made in europe'. this new global infrastructure differs from its predecessors (the gps and glonass systems) in that it is intended for civil, commercial (and non-military) use, and thus could become a joint project of all 25 member states. the legislation before us concerns the financing of the implementation and initial operational phase, for the period 2007-2013. this directive could of course have been put on the agenda of the plenary after the agreement on the financial perspective. and the reason why we didn't do that is because of the following. galileo is a ppp project, with community and private funding and in the form of a concession. the negotiations on the concession contract have started, and i think that parliament should take all the decisions that it wishes to take into account in the negotiations. the first. it is important that parliament should state in its resolution that it supports the provision of eur 1 billion as a separate line in the financial perspective. the second. the community not only provides financial support for the project but also transfers to the concessionaire the proceeds of the licences and other related rights, while retaining ownership of them. the third. parliament proposed the inclusion of the egnos programme, which ensures compatibility with the us gps system, and the galileo programme, as a precursor (marketing of the model). 4. to the parliament expects the concession contract to include a profit or revenue sharing (of course from the time when the project is already generating it). the fifth. parliament is prepared to provide a guarantee and share responsibility (but only if it is aware of the concession contract and is able to negotiate this issue) as this is a ppp project. 6th parliament expects the galileo programme implementers to meet deadlines for the success of the programme. this will be monitored and monitored by parliament on an ongoing basis, in the annual budgetary debates. the number 7. parliament supported gnss satellite navigation research in the 7th framework programme for research and development and also proposed that galileo be included in the competitiveness and innovation framework programme on the user side, for small and medium-sized enterprises. 8 years parliament expressly welcomes the form of implementation of the ppp. however, as this is the first community ppp project, parliament proposes observer status in the monitoring committee, which is one-off and does not include executive tasks. this proposal was already put forward by the previous parliament, but i would like to inform the members that the european commission does not agree with it. the report was also discussed by the committee on budgets and the committee on transport. their reservations are essentially part of the report. i would point out that, following interim consultations with the committee on budgets, an oral amendment will be tabled tomorrow, with the knowledge of the shadow rapporteurs. this proposal is technical in nature and concerns the withdrawal of the 2004 base year. i would like to thank the european commission for the excellent opportunity for consultation and cooperation. finally, i would like to inform the house that the committee on industry has discussed the report on several occasions and that it was unanimously adopted at its june meeting.
the rapporteur. the creation of a regulatory environment to safeguard the health and safety of european workers is a clear obligation of european legislation that has existed for decades, and is also required by article 137 of the treaty of rome. the legal framework is based on a european economic community directive, the so-called framework directive, which was born in 1989. the legislation imposes a general obligation on employers to assess all possible risks that may affect the health of workers in the course of their work activities in order to protect the health and safety of workers. the framework directive therefore lays down a general obligation to protect workers from all harmful effects. the reason why the risk types are not listed in the text of the standard is that the range of risks is constantly changing and expanding in the context of environmental changes, but the employer's attention must nevertheless cover all risks. as early as 1989, the legislator's intention was to create tailor-made legislation that was well suited to each risk, which was the reason why a separate legislation for physical risks was created. then, after the first reading in 1992, parliament decided to divide it into four parts, giving rise to different directives on the various risks - noise, noise effects and electromagnetic radiation. the second reading now brings the last item, the question of optical radiation, to the agenda. a fairly broad consensus on artificial radiation issues was reached in the course of parliament's work and in consultations with the commission and council representatives. the debate has been about solar radiation, which is radiation from natural sources, so i'd like to say a few words about that. principle that the employer is liable for any damage that occurs during work. this is indisputable and is clearly stated in the previous legislation, which is still in force today. but obviously there are differences between countries, conditions and even radiation, and after many, many small and complicated negotiations, we have finally reached a compromise with a large number of my colleagues, the essence of which is that, because of the very different circumstances of solar radiation, it is appropriate to define detailed rules and concrete actions at member state level. in the spirit of subsidiarity, this compromise proposes that the rules for natural radiation should be set by each country. obviously, the situation is different in sweden or greece or spain or germany. different traditions, different cultures, it is therefore reasonable to leave it to the individual countries to determine the responsibilities of employers. i consider it an important achievement, however, that we have reached a broad consensus on the report on a number of issues, for example the council has indicated that it can accept the proposal supported by all the political groups in parliament: the preparation of a technical and professional guide, which we expect from the council. this can help the entrepreneur, especially smes, to understand, apply and manage easily - especially with regard to artificial radiation - their often not so simple tasks. it would be a great success if it were included in the legislation. i ask my colleagues and the house to support the amendments which strike a good balance between the regulation of minimum obligations at european level and the specific possibilities and responsibilities of the member states. so i ask you to support the compromise. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, my colleagues in the house, and the staff of the council and the commission for their cooperation. we've been working a lot, and i think we've been working well together lately.
the eye is responsible for most of human perception, so it is understandable that eye injury or loss of vision is among the most serious physical injuries. the overriding interest of workers is that this directive should be adopted as soon as possible, and we have an interest in adopting the report. we are professional in this matter and there is always a possibility of consensus, but during the debate there were professional reservations. knowing the sources of danger, using protective equipment and strictly adhering to safety regulations are essential not only in eye care but also in all other areas of health protection. the range of workplace injuries is extremely wide, with a high risk of adverse health effects and chronic diseases. solar radiation is a well-known natural phenomenon that is difficult to control and in some eu member states is even low. it should also be borne in mind that the directive should provide for the widest possible scope for member states to develop, at national level, in consultation with the social partners and within the framework provided for by the directive, the legislation best suited to their particular circumstances. there should be no over-regulation, but a balance between worker safety and the realities of the economy and the budget in each country. we can and will change the overly bureaucratic approach, and health protection must be a priority.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i welcome mr weber's report on television without frontiers and i fully support it. a proper media policy providing cultural values is crucial to broadening the understanding between our nations. when the first legislative act on this subject was approved, my country – hungary – was not yet a member of the european communities. however, this legislation meets the requirements of our cultural policy. as regards this topic, i should like to raise the question: why do we have to regulate the programmes on our television channels? the answer is very simple: because we want to save our national cultures and create a common european identity. in order to promote cultural diversity and build up a european identity, we need a stronger exchange of our cultural values, including our cinematographic heritage. this new report is a further step in the right direction. the so-called quotas generally worked well. the cases where they failed to do so should be compiled and studied. however, we should give a more precise answer to the question: ‘what is a european production?’ how can we ensure that it will consist of as many films with cinematographic values as possible? for me, that is a crucial point. i am sure that european cinema helps european people – mainly the young people – to understand each other's sorrows and joys. perhaps having a sub-quota, especially for feature and documentary films, would be an improvement. the other question concerns the case of non-domestic productions. in smaller countries, such as hungary, it is not a problem. on our television channels, many non-hungarian and european films are broadcast. however, in some larger member states, there are hardly any non-domestic european programmes. as the referendum on the constitution shows, people from some larger nations hardly know anything about the values of the central and eastern european countries or of other smaller member states. the european identity needs and deserves to be reflected, even on the channels of the bigger nations. often our legislation just follows technical developments. i hope that, in the light of the digital revolution, we can pass proper legislation in due time. that is why i welcome mr weber's excellent report.
rapporteur.– mr president, i wish to propose an oral amendment concerning a small technical modification: the words 'at 2004 prices' should be deleted in amendments 6, 7, 8 and 19.
mr president, i should like to propose two changes to the original text. both of them are in relation to the roma community in europe. firstly, at recital 7, amendment 6, i shall read out the words that i would like to have inserted into the text: '... as well as the particular situation of the roma'. the second change that i propose is in relation to the importance of the positive measures. in this paragraph, i propose inserting a whole sentence, which would read: 'attention should be paid in particular to the case of traditionally disadvantaged groups [such] as roma and people with disabilities.'
on behalf of the alde group. the council intends to reduce the union budget by half a billion euro compared to the commission's proposal. that in itself is unacceptable. but it is particularly unacceptable that more than a third of the cuts are in external relations and foreign affairs. foreign affairs would be cut by 10 times the amount of all other spending. the european union's successes and achievements to date have been largely linked to its external relations. we're proud of our expansion, our support policy, that we're the largest donor in the world. in contrast, these priorities do not appear in this draft, and in particular they do not appear in the council's proposal; on the contrary, it is precisely these objectives that are most affected by the cuts. i think we need to be able to showcase success. europe, the european union, is hungry for these successes. but there's another problem. we don't take our own principles seriously, we haven't taken them seriously before and we're not taking them seriously in the design. the human rights clause was almost never applied by the council. we support a lot of countries that make a mockery of democracy and human rights. and we have the means to do that, because the human rights clause provides an opportunity to withdraw funding from those who don't follow human rights and the rule of law and give more to those who have started down that path. for example, the countries of the western balkans. you want to cut aid to the western balkan countries even more than you want to cut foreign policy spending in general. and we have a vested interest in stabilizing the western balkans. it is incomprehensible that the council wants to give 5% less to this region and 8% less to serbia, for example, than in the previous year. but he's also very generous to the european special envoys. their budget doubled in two years. so you've increased something that's very questionable in its necessity, but you've also reduced a lot of things that are essential.
the rapporteur. i am in a fortunate position to present the proposal for a one-stop-shop vat return. this package of proposals can certainly be a major step towards the completion of the single internal market. the introduction of this system, which i hope will be possible in early 2007, will enable small businesses who have not been able to hire or contract tax advisers to handle their vat affairs in another member state to do so without having to do so. they also receive a refund which they have not been able to claim until now (thus undermining their own competitiveness and putting them at a disadvantage compared to larger companies). we know that at present more than half of vat arrears are not reimbursed (according to the commission's estimates). the positive aspect of the proposal is that everyone can deal with these matters in their own language and with the help of their authorities, and can recover or pay their vat liabilities directly. the electronic administration can speed up the registration of changes, as we have tried to do in the amendments proposed by the committee on economic and financial affairs. the deadline for the refund of vat may also be shortened. the scheme does not change the current practice of paying vat according to the place of consumption, i.e. it remains neutral as regards the different tax rates. i agree with the approach that the commission intends to initiate the introduction of the simplified system. in other words, it does not wish to raise the fundamental question of whether tax is to be paid on the basis of the origin of the goods or services or, as is currently the case, on the basis of consumption. i hope that the member states in the council will be so elevated that they will not link this good initiative with this fundamental philosophical debate. the other advantage of the proposal is that it opens the way to progress on a number of issues in accordance with common principles, which can be achieved precisely through the single window system. this is the first common list of non-deductibility. this would refer to the common rules items excluded in all member states, mainly those relating to luxury consumption. it does not bind the hands of businesses, but it does not seek to link deductibility and location in the future - not consumption - thereby helping small businesses to become more informed and more predictable, and to avoid unnecessary competition. but i would also like to mention the possibility of making it easier to monitor the turnover of companies than by selling at a distance, and thus also of simplifying the process to a realistic threshold, which would not be set by each member state but for the union as a whole. companies can choose between taxation based on establishment and consumption for distance sales of up to eur 150 000 in revenue. the electronic system also helps to maximise uniformly the extent to which vat exemptions can be granted to small enterprises, otherwise on an optional basis for the member state and the enterprise. the committee on economic and financial affairs also accepted my proposal to set a lower threshold for the tax exemption to be offered and used in the first three years of start-up. this will allow us to provide a predictable incentive, in line with lisbon, for start-ups and family employment. however, some things can be improved. firstly, i accept the commission's caution to wait until after 2006 to examine the regime's experience in electronic commerce and possibly to examine whether this system can be extended to the current one-stop-shop system. in particular, the company can also process returns and refunds electronically from the place of establishment via the tax offices there. it would also be important to look at how to establish a common electronic system of cooperation between national tax authorities to prevent abuse and speed up checks. in the interest of legal certainty, the time spent by the tax authority on the return or replacement of data before the refund should be further reduced, as this helps to improve the liquidity of companies. in order to reinforce the entrepreneurial nature of the system, i proposed that the commission should carry out a thorough examination of the whole single window system and the changes now associated with it four years after its adoption, report on the experience gained and propose any amendments. i also see the reality of reviewing the application of vat to the origin of payments in the member states. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the experts of the european commission for their good work and constructive attitude.
mr president, there is a whole debate on this issue. i am sure that on many issues both sides have the right arguments, as both the innovative and generic industries have an important role in the medicine sector. whilst i understand the importance of innovation, as a socialist and hungarian mep i think that the social aspect should take priority. for retired people and families with children in hungary, medicine represents a large part of their living expenses. in the transition to capitalism, the cost of medicine became extremely high in hungary compared to people's incomes. further increases would be unacceptable for me. the rapporteur has to understand that the extra price of the extension period would be paid by the most vulnerable strata of society, the poor and their children. that is why i support the 'three plus three months' extension period. hungarian socialists support all the amendments by mrs corbey and mrs mcavan, which many of us have signed.
i am very pleased to be taking part in this debate, which is based on the protection of law and order and the safeguarding of individual liberties and integrity. no one disputed that the peace of europe depended fundamentally on the effective coordination of security instruments, on the cooperation of the member states. but not just this. and president pöttering was right when he said that terrorism is spiritual in nature. yes, terrorism is also spiritual. but do we think that the roots of terrorism are also in us, the citizens of europe? do we think that all exclusion breeds hatred? do we think that the consciousness of alienation, the lost national or threatened religious identity, is replaced by a space into which fundamentalist brainwashing can infiltrate and break in? do we think that the roots of terrorism lie in the false or empty political rhetoric? and if we think about it, let's just say it and make a big exclamation point. that we have duties to perform and to take account of our duties. because even if terrorism is spiritual, we have to know each other's culture, and that obligation to know is not one-way. europe is for those who are looking for a new home. european citizens must learn about the world beyond europe, its culture, religion, suffering, history and future. children need to learn from fairy tales, young people in schools, or culture 2000 media programmes, adults need to learn what the world beyond europe is like, with which they have to live, regardless of prejudice. and i'm glad that the cooperation with the religious communities has been given a boost in this debate, i'm glad about what commissioner frattini said. officer rhodes, what a jump! you have set up the conciliation committee, which is responsible for consulting religious communities. and i can only ask you to continue this dialogue not only with the christian communities in europe, but to invite representatives of the muslim communities and use their desire for peace and their love of peace to try to mitigate the spiritual roots of terrorism. my fellow mps, security and freedom were the key words. we hungarians, we know, we've learned that to be free is to not be afraid. and i would like to thank the british presidency for putting this fearless life at the heart of its presidency.
mr president, as we all know, tourism can contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives. europe is the world's favourite tourist destination, but with the emergence of new competitors, as has already been mentioned, we can maintain this situation only by creating better tourist facilities, higher quality services and information, and a high level of consumer protection and safety. this requires cooperation between the public and private sectors. coming from a new member state, i emphasise that all of us benefit from enlargement in the field of tourism, so future enlargements would give a further boost to the sector's economic weight and its importance to european growth. as vice-chairwoman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am sure that the growth of tourism will lead to more opportunities, prospects and appropriate working conditions for female employees, who represent the majority of the sector's workers, as well as businesswomen in tourism and, most importantly, to more jobs for women. in developing tourism, we must not forget the socially vulnerable groups and people with disabilities, representing more than 10 million europeans. i welcome the initiative to make tourist and leisure establishments, facilities, services and itineraries accessible to people with reduced mobility and disability. i stress that this is a great challenge for the new member states, which will have to overcome huge disadvantages in this sector. tourism still does not receive the attention it should in the eu. there is no tourism website on the eu portal and eurostat publishes only a few tourism statistics. i therefore recommend that we have a 'european year of tourism', which would be accompanied by a wide range of events and programmes to highlight the social and economic importance of tourism. experience of member states' practices in this area is important and increased cooperation between member states on best practice could be useful.
dear collegues, good health is essential for physical and mental well-being. so equal access to health care services should be obligatory in the eu. there are serious challenges to be highlighted: women have specific health characteristics, their health status is also determined by socio-economic factors, like lower living standards, higher unemployment, lower wages. many health problems affect women only or differently. lately, many people have become aware that women and men are treated differently in those services. there is few information concerning differences in the effects of medication on women. even those intended specifically for women, are normally tested on men only. women working in health care outnumber men but are underrepresented in health care decision-making. i have to highlight the violence and abuse to which women have been subjected by men close to them, and through trafficking and prostitution. it causes serious physical and psychological public health problems and effects also children's healthy development. mammography screening programs (to prevent breast cancer) exist in only nine member states! poverty influences health. poverty still has a woman face, 120 million women live in poverty. the situation is especially grave with roma women in central-eastern europe.
health has now become a fundamental determinant of quality of life in the value system of a consumer society, and has become a major economic and social policy factor. the direct and indirect costs of treating patients represent an increasing proportion of the eu member states' budgets each year. however, not everyone will experience the same positive effects. for the poor, the disadvantaged, and the marginalised, who make up the bottom one-third of society, there is no significant positive change in the quality of health care, well-being, health status, or life expectancy. the report by my colleague mr svensson is very clear about the need to make health care more equitable. the aim is to ensure that women and men have the same quality of care and equal access to health services. the report is particularly noteworthy in calling for equal access to healthcare for pregnant women, the chronically ill, disabled and elderly women and women from other disadvantaged groups, such as roma women. in the absence of statistical data, we do not have figures on the relationships between the roma population and within it roma women and certain types of institutions in the healthcare system. few surveys have examined the degree of prejudice towards roma among healthcare workers, nor do we know what prejudices or fears roma have towards healthcare and its workers. however, it is clear from reports by human rights ngos and anthropological descriptions that roma women living in the european union receive poorer quality healthcare due to a number of disadvantages and negative discrimination. today, for example, in hungary, roma women have an average life expectancy of 62.5 years, while non-roma women have an average life expectancy of 75 years. we should talk a lot more about the determining factors that are forcing our roma women to live 13 years less!
i hope that this report will contribute to the development of a uniform approach to women's health protection throughout the union. i want to draw attention to one important point: we must not allow another discrimination against women in health care because they are poor, because they have lower incomes, or because they suffer from diseases specifically women's. we must not repeat the mistakes in health care that put women at a disadvantage in other areas of life. on the other hand, it would be very important that medical and health personnel already receive the knowledge and skills during their training to enable them to approach specific women's diseases in an appropriate way.
mr. president, i have to ask you... a man who was known to many as a ruthless avenger died, but what mattered to him was not revenge but justice. he was driven by the belief that if the perpetrators of crimes could leave the past behind without consequence, that past would come to life again, poisoning the present and the future. simon wiesenthal is dead. he was a man, he made mistakes, but he could not bear the certainty that europe, a new world built on common values and a common future, had once more become one. unity in the consciousness of racial exclusion, in stigma, in exclusion, in hatred. a 96-year-old man has passed away. he left us with the legacy that contempt for other people and death at the hands of men cannot unite europe again. let us think of it as we work to ensure that the unity of the new europe is based on equal treatment and equal opportunities. and we ask the commission to commemorate him by paragraph 13... (the speaker was excused.)
mr. president, i have to ask you... one of the most effective means of implementing community policies is to strengthen cohesion between regions with different levels of development. this is what we must do if we are to achieve the main objectives of the lisbon strategy, namely to increase competitiveness, create more jobs, strengthen social cohesion, solidarity and solidarity, and ensure sustainable development. cooperation between regions, cohesion, contributes to strengthening integration, creates the foundations for sustainable development in all regions and provides opportunities to apply best practice everywhere. it broadly enables regions to cooperate in a wide variety of forms, whether in the framework of cross-border regional cooperation, cooperation between nations or between larger geographical units. diversity, the exploitation of national, regional or local opportunities may seem to require more work, but on a pan-european scale, it promises more serious results and greater benefits, and is worth the effort. government should play its part in cooperation at national, regional and local levels. dialogue, exchange of views and lively contacts between the three levels, national, community and regional, are key elements of cooperation, and the public and private sectors are also important. the development strategies are based on good partnership, including consultation, active involvement of partners, and cooperation with the competent authorities, social partners and civil society organisations, including non-governmental organisations. regional cohesion implies equal treatment between the different regions of europe, while taking into account the different geographical and demographic situations. its fundamental task is to raise the standard of living of the population, which is one of the conditions for equal treatment of citizens. closing economic and social gaps between regions will help to achieve gender equality in society at all levels and in all areas. of course, this requires the launch of specific programmes and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as chair of the parliament's intergroup on sustainable development and transport, i welcome all legislation and programmes at community level that promote the development of the rail network and the spread of environmentally friendly transport. as regards the third railway package, it should be noted that the rail network and its development in the member states of the union are of very different standards. while the western section has a 6,000 km high-speed track, the eastern section is characterized by dilapidated, neglected lines. the question of opening up and liberalising national rail networks to railway companies in other member states is therefore very complex from an east-central european perspective. on the one hand, there is no doubt that competition leads to improved services and a more complete service to transport users. this increases the attractiveness of the railway by reducing the burden on the road, which is welcome and should be supported from an environmental point of view. on the other hand, most of the eastern railway companies have been underfunded for decades. correcting the shortcomings in railway development policies and concepts would require a longer time and huge amounts of money, which is unlikely to be resolved by 2008 or 2012. there is a risk that some member states, including my country's national railway company, could go bankrupt because of unequal competition, placing excessive social, financial and political burdens on their governments. as a member of the people's party, i support competition in this area. competition that serves both the interests of citizens and the environment. in this case, however, it would not be competition but dominance. i cannot therefore support the commission's proposal in its present form and would ask you to reconsider it.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to say that i fully support the presentation of the railway package and the principle of liberalisation within it, because i believe that this will lead to a more efficient railway that attracts people. this is also essential for passenger traffic, without which people will not switch from road to rail, and obviously the economic scale must be expanded. it's all right. i see the problem, and i would like to draw mr jarzembowski's attention to it, is that we are facing a very specific macroeconomic challenge in the case of the new countries joining. namely, with the huge fiscal pressure of the introduction of the euro, the co-financing pressure is huge to start our first three-year programme. we have to part-finance agricultural funding, because we don't get direct subsidies unless we supplement them from our budget. this all leads to the fact that the enormous pressure to join the eurozone as soon as possible is forcing governments - no matter what their colour - to concentrate on fiscal consolidation. therefore, they do not deal with large non-state-owned national companies, including the national railway companies. i therefore believe that we cannot accept the liberalization agenda, especially the cabotage, which you are proposing for the new member states. i think that we must devise some kind of transition which will reasonably give us the opportunity to prepare ourselves to give the national railway company a chance, especially when the new member states are very large 'transit walls', huge transit markets. you have to give them a fair chance. this is why the accession treaty already contained transitional provisions for freight transport until 2007. and even the public sector is in disarray. i'm afraid that the only toll roads left would be our own, and the main lines would be immediately taken over by the big rail companies. which is why i'm asking you to consider some kind of transition.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am convinced that the third railway package is an important final step towards achieving common european rail services. i agree with the principles of the third railway package directives. i support the transposition into national law by 2006 of the framework directives necessary to open up the european market for passenger transport services. hungary, for example, as a new member state, has already done so. i support the idea that some member states could decide to grant earlier access rights to their railway infrastructure, even on a reciprocal basis. yes, this is where the multi-speed europe comes in. however, the latter should also cover the possibility for some member states to decide to open their markets a few years later. this is missing from the regulation, while the proposal deepens it by opening up the market to national passenger transport. however, this will present a number of member states, including new member states, with tasks that will take time. public service contracts, solutions for underserved areas, logistics tasks, the restructuring of railway companies with all its personal consequences. these tasks do not require a simple decision by a national parliament, but rather time. we need to recognise that while the new member states have moved faster in terms of economic growth than most of the old member states, there are areas where we are moving at a slower pace. the rail services in the new member states also have value that could be lost in an unduly accelerated transformation. these are not only national values, but when the third railway package comes into force, which i hope will be, they will become common european values. i therefore ask the house to take this into account in tomorrow's vote.
mr president, two principles appear to be clashing where turkey is concerned. which is more important: democracy and the copenhagen criteria or turkey's significance as a geo-strategic partner? there is a serious danger that those who favour the geo-strategic argument are underestimating the gaps in turkey's democratic attainments to date. views are deeply divided as to whether matters are improving or deteriorating in terms of meeting copenhagen criteria. the decision to press charges against orhan pamuk on grounds of having libelled the turkish republic because he had spoken critically of the armenian genocide and the treatment of the kurdish minority is deeply worrying. in a fully democratic state these cannot be grounds for criminal proceedings. there are those who would overlook these and many other shortcomings on turkey's part, not least by saying that they are 'road accidents'. the trouble with that approach is that it gives too much leeway to those who are not really interested in the democratic transformation of turkey. equally, it disheartens the country's committed democrats. what is the point of being committed to democracy if others can get away with non-democratic behaviour? all this raises a difficult question: does the turkish government have control over all the institutions of the turkish state? if it does not, then there is no way that turkey can comply with copenhagen criteria. that in turn raises the even more difficult problem of the turkish armed forces, which still have the right to intervene in the political process as guardians of secularism and the country's territorial integrity. is that compatible with copenhagen criteria? (applause)
mr. president, i have to ask you... although the world market price of crude oil has nearly tripled in the past three years, mankind's greed for energy shows no sign of abating. and the economic impact of this year's natural disasters seems to be ringing alarm bells over our gasoline-powered society. most eu member states rely on energy sources from distant lands, and we are therefore dependent on other states, often not so democratic. if we do not act, the growing demand for fuels will lead to ever more polluting fuels, as clean oil and natural gas will be depleted, with ever more serious environmental consequences. i therefore welcome the commission's five-point plan, in particular its part on energy efficiency and alternative energy sources. we must reduce oil consumption in energy production, but especially in transport. in order to make biofuels more widely available, we need to take the biofuels directive more seriously. we need to incentivise service providers and consumers through tax incentives and administrative methods. it is important to increase support for research in europe on non-oil energy production, both at community and member state level. the support of iter for nanotechnology in solar energy, biotechnology for biofuels, mux for the atomic bomb or thermonuclear energy production is essential from an environmental and economic point of view to stop the alarm bells ringing. it is welcome news that major oil-consuming and polluting countries such as the us, china, india, australia, japan and south korea signed an agreement in laos in june of this year, something like a "kyoto-like" agreement, to develop and distribute cleaner energy and technologies, because as global as the problem is, so must the solution be.
mr. president, i have to ask you... mr. alexander, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the province of vojvodina in northern serbia, which had the same status as kosovo before 1989, is now practically a 'paper province' without a status. no one knows why it can't be restored five years after milosevic's fall. since the very large indigenous hungarian and croatian minority cannot represent itself in the belgrade parliament, it is in a politically discriminated situation in the vojvodina. i don't know if you're paying attention when you say that there are positive minority processes in serbia, that members of a european nation, the hungarian nation, are persecuted and beaten just because they speak hungarian, the police do not take up various complaints, kosovo and krajina judges with dubious backgrounds appear in this region and now there are murders... (the speaker was excused.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr turmes, who has outlined the future of renewable energy along the broad lines of the lisbon strategy. i agree that in the coming decades, renewable energies can have a positive impact on job creation, environmental protection, market integration, research and development, innovation and sustainable economic development within a coherent european energy policy. however, i would point out that renewable energy technologies are currently very expensive in both absolute terms and in terms of efficiency. in contrast, in many member states, especially in the current circumstances, energy prices are a sensitive issue, which may even threaten social cohesion. that is why i think it is very important, before embarking on an overly ambitious renewable energy policy, to promote cohesion between regions, member states and micro-regions and the integration of the european energy market through a comprehensive energy policy based on a reasonable balance.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, i have to go. at the end of june, i learned that 35,000 refugees in germany were in serious trouble. all 35,000 of them came from kosovo six years ago. they're all roma. it doesn't matter if we call them askali or egyptian. in the first week of july, the chairmen of the political groups, with the exception of the conservatives, wrote to the german government to ask it to reconsider its decision. germany has decided to deport 35,000 roma to kosovo. to a country where only 6,000 of the 150,000 roma are left in the country, and they too live in inhuman conditions. in their own country, in refugee camps. in the refugee camp in north mitrovica, six times the amount of lead contamination has been detected, and since then, children have been born with disabilities. the houses in which roma lived before the war are now occupied by albanians or others without title, or have been destroyed. germany spent six years thinking about whether to grant refugee status to the roma, and now it's decided to send them back to kosovo, to no avail. there are about 70,000 more, mostly illegally, in other countries in europe and in the balkans: the netherlands, sweden, finland, macedonia, serbia, and so forth. we have no motherland to welcome us in such a situation. when i proposed this debate, i was asking for europe to take a stand on this issue, not for 10 members to debate the situation of minorities after 11 o'clock here in the european parliament. we must have influence on germany as members of the european parliament. we have to stop the deportations and fix this whole situation in kosovo.
roma in kosovo are regularly subject to racial discrimination. discrimination affects them in all areas of life. in the miotrovica internment camp, they live in inhuman conditions, their health is at risk because the water from the wells is toxic and the local authorities do not take the necessary steps to eliminate it. the roma in kosovo should be guaranteed the right to claim refugee status. we often hear about cases of expulsion, despite the fact that international law prohibits the expulsion of refugees in black and white. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to the right to family reunification, which means that they have the same right as other refugees to be protected with their families in the territory of the member states. the charter of fundamental human rights should allow legal immigration for victims of inhuman treatment and war who left their country because they lived in constant fear and threat, were persecuted, had their homes burned, their lives were in constant danger. we need to find a way to protect the victims. particular attention should be paid to the situation of children, who are particularly vulnerable. i believe that the issue of migration urgently needs to be reconsidered in order to develop a uniform immigration policy. the possibilities of illegal immigration must be reduced and adequate protection must be provided for all legal immigrants in the union. we hear about 38,000 refugees in western europe being forcibly resettled in a country where human rights are not guaranteed. i ask my colleagues to help me to ensure that this does not happen in our europe.
the target of achieving a further reduction of 50 % of road accident victims by 2010 might be ambitious but not impossible through proper and combined measures. the setting of targets, allocation of responsibilities and proper planning can contribute to the success of this ambitious programme. legislation, social acceptance, planning and monitoring are integrated elements of this strategy. there is a striking diversity between member states in many aspects which should be taken into consideration: cultural, divesity in attitude and, one of the biggest difference, economic wealth, the latter being the major cause of bad quality of road, limited length of highways. this is also one of the reasons of grave road safety records of most of the ten new member states this is mainly why we are lagging far behind the eu-15. i’m sure thast the introduction of the european driving licence, the strict conditions to get that licence and enabling the physical and mental faculties of drivers and their driving skills checked over time is a must. it is extremely important that proper continiously updated information and monitoring network throughout the eu should be established which could help a lot with cooperation of authorities in road safety survaillance.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and substantial report and add a few thoughts to what she said in her introduction about the report. we must develop a comprehensive system of trade relations with china, because without it we will have to fight against the dumping of textiles today, shoes tomorrow, cars or anything else. i would therefore like to draw attention to other aspects of eu-china relations that can help us to shape such a comprehensive trade reform. china's explosive economic growth must inevitably entail political reform in the country. that is still to come, and it is likely that a sudden change would destabilize the far east region. but now, no one doubts that china has become an inevitable global player, not just in terms of its size, but also in terms of its economy. so i urge all eu institutions not to fight china, but to help them on their way to becoming a daily practice, by changing and complying with the relevant laws, to become a norm that meets the eu's expectations. and by doing so, we're giving them the opportunity to have all the things that my colleagues and i have been protesting about, in the areas of environmental protection, workers' rights, counterfeiting and so on, reconsidered in china. i've had several meetings with representatives of the chinese government this year, and they've been very open to starting a comprehensive dialogue. ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of china's opening up to the world, if we extend a helping hand to them politically, we can now shape their future to suit our own tastes.
mr. president, i have to ask you... several people have said before me that china has the right to enjoy the benefits of wto membership and globalization, but that in order to enjoy those benefits, china must also abide by wto rules and other international norms, such as human rights and social rights. because the free flow of goods is important, but the free flow of ideas is just as important. freedom of trade is important, but so is freedom of the people. in recent months, many have expressed concern over hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány's promise of visa-free travel for over a billion chinese citizens. i would like to inform you that this is not a hungarian position, that is not shared by fidesz, and it is not shared by the european people's party. i welcome, however, that the report before us draws attention to the worrying human rights situation in china, calls for the immediate abolition of child and forced labour and demands that basic social and labour standards be respected. in this light, the statement of the hungarian prime minister that the chinese economic, social and social model should be followed in many respects is difficult to interpret. the eu is a commitment to common values, and these common values, such as freedom and respect for human rights, guide its common foreign and security policy. the maintenance of the visa requirement for china is in the interest of the security of european citizens. these interests cannot be subjected to momentary political whims.
author. - mr president, i have to go. parliament already passed an emergency resolution last year. this has led to some temporary improvement. serbian leaders have since stopped denying or downplaying the incidents, instead lamenting and distancing themselves from them. some of the perpetrators have been caught in the meantime, although no court verdict has been reached. but unfortunately, the events of the past few weeks and months have given rise to renewed concern. incidents against minorities, assassination attempts against leaders of hungarian organizations have increased. all of this indicates that there has been no substantial change in serbia. the promises made by the serbian leadership have not been fulfilled. they promised more hungarian police in vajdaság. that didn't happen. they promised to bring swift and effective justice to these cases. that didn't happen. they promised to set up two committees to investigate the events and to deal with the ethnic tensions. that didn't happen. the time of patience is slowly drawing to a close. the leaders of serbia must understand that if they cannot guarantee the safety of their citizens, cannot guarantee order, cannot guarantee fundamental rights, then there will be consequences. as mrs. doris pack said, there must be consequences. both in the financial assistance to serbia and in the signing of the stability pact. my colleague, mr tabajdi csaba, and i have proposed an increase in the allocation for serbia for next year. this is what mrs pack is referring to. this trust on our part, however, is not unlimited or unconditional. if there is no substantial change in vajdaság next year, we will propose that this has consequences both in the subsidies and in the stability agreement, because the common goal is that vajdaság is again a province of ethnic cooperation and inter-ethnic peace.
author. - mr president, i have to go. the credibility of the european parliament depends on serbia's compliance with its promises. we don't want to isolate serbia, but we need to keep our commitments. without it, serbia and montenegro cannot approach europe. the fact-finding mission led by mrs pack was very positive, but it only brought a temporary improvement, the situation was not really settled. it is therefore very important that, in the spirit of today's decision, the european parliament, but also the commission and the council, continuously monitor and monitor violations of minority rights, and even more important that we not only adopt decisions, but that we make improvements. i would like to draw attention to two areas: the restoration of the autonomy of the worker, which was abolished by milosevic, is crucial, and the economic equality of the minorities is at least as important. and i assure mrs. doris pack that the hungarian government will do everything possible to protect the rights of the hungarians of the past. i'll pass that information on to him if he doesn't have the information.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. after some debate in our parliament, there is a complete consensus that once again, and now, we must speak out for the interests of the vichy government. this is not a dispute between two distant peoples or ethnic groups, but a series of serious attacks against indigenous, non-immigrant national communities, most of them hungarians. these communities are also an integral part of european union nations, such as the hungarian or slovak, and of future european union nations, such as romania or croatia. the protection of these is recognised in the european treaties and thus they are strongly covered by european solidarity. the eu is offended when one of its official languages cannot be spoken without physical insults, whether in the street or with visitors, parents in prison. on the other hand, these communities want to achieve their goals by peaceful political means. true, in the balkans, experience has shown that it doesn't produce the same results and attract the same attention as the use of weapons. if the union is to avoid the mistakes of the early 1990s, it cannot encourage the punishment of the defenseless. as the motion for a resolution states, in the vichy republic which unfortunately lost its autonomy and inexplicably did not regain it five years after the fall of milosevic and autonomy was successful before '89. the commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market. so today, the official reports of increasingly serious incidents are completely different from what those affected are forced to register with the help of the civil sphere. in human rights cases, we've learned that what matters is how people who are being attacked judge their situation and respond to it, not how it's officially presented by official bodies that have lost all trust in minorities. the resolution calls for action by the european parliament, the commission and the council, in accordance with the political responsibility of the eu which i expressed in february, and for the serbian leadership to react to this: this cannot go on. i therefore suggested that the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy should take the incidents in vojvodina and their causes very seriously, that the british presidency should finally try to see the reality, and that the commission should also take account of the foundations of the rule of law in serbia, not just on paper but in reality. the responsibility of the eu institutions is also enormous in that, in a few exceptional individual cases, they have shown mercy - although i admit that this is a very nice thing - and we believe that this is the right direction. no, instead, we must force the future of indigenous non-serb communities in serbia, taking into account the motives of each serious case. despite unilateral and well-intentioned messages, it would be a message of incitement to crime to reward increases in eu budget allocations, to open up our agricultural markets or to enter into association negotiations without regard for our own principles. we must not be dazzled by the institutions and accounts that exist on paper, but we must wash the blood of our own people from our faces and prevent it from spilling again. reconciliation with aggressive actions has always ended in tragedy, especially in the balkans.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, last january we heard many promises from the leaders of serbia on the situation of the minorities in vojvodina. those promises included a teacher training academy in subotica, more ethnic hungarians in the serbian police force and tolerance programmes for young serbians to learn to respect the history and culture of the hungarians and other minorities living in vojvodina. few – frankly, hardly any – of these promises have been fulfilled. our parliament should send a clear message to the government in belgrade. ethnic peace and minority rights are crucial criteria for the further integration of serbia into europe. we understand the difficulties of the democratic serbian government. we do not want to weaken the democratic parties there, but they should act: not sometime in the future, but right now. the serbian government should be encouraged to combat the nationalist forces in vojvodina and all over serbia, but they should also respect the rights of the minority in vojvodina and all over serbia and montenegro.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as a member of the european parliament, i believe that decisions and proposals made within these walls should not disappear without a trace in the sink. they will have an impact and consequences for the council, the commission and the targeted circle. that is why we initiated a motion a year ago and brought this initiative together in the european parliament to pass a resolution on vojvodina, which draws the attention of the european institutions to the hungarian beatings and intimidation taking place there, and which requires the serbian authorities not to tolerate and thus not to encourage this. it's a shame that after a year, we're still in the same place. the intimidation continues, the harassment and serious abuse of hungarian children has become commonplace. they're writing insults to the native inhabitants. despite the numerous promises made as a result of official letters, parliamentary visits, ad hoc missions. so we suggest that we return to the problem. we must be consistent, and we expect that consistency from both the commission and the council. because it is unacceptable that a neighbouring state of the union, the belgrade government, to which we are voting millions of euros to encourage tolerance, tolerates this violence, and thereby encourages the atmosphere of fear by never finding or holding the perpetrators responsible, while being unprecedentedly, almost cruel in punishing hungarian youth. i quote a hungarian mother from vojvodina: "there is fear in the child's soul, their youth is poisoned. it is also the responsibility of all of us, the parliament, the council and the commission, to ensure that this does not happen.
mr. president, i have to ask you... after a year, i have to say again: the passive government of serbia-montenegro continues to bear the greatest responsibility for the incitement of tensions, the beating of hungarians, the harassment and robberies, the desecration of graves in cemeteries, the demolition and destruction of historical monuments of the hungarian community. from strasbourg, i say to the serbian people that they must not be the tool, the plaything of the xenophobia fomented by the post-communist nationalist elite. it doesn't solve anything, it just causes more suffering. but he must face his past, the organized genocide that was committed in the vajdaság sixty years ago, which at that time had more than forty thousand hungarian victims. the decision is in the hands of the serbian people. serbia will either be a european civil democracy for all, free of discrimination and fear, or it will be the north korea of europe.
mr president, the original english text was never translated. we sent it to the translators and the translation service, after some problems, indicated to me that the first two lines of recital e in the original english text, which would be the basis of the translation for all the european languages, should be clarified, while keeping to the substance. that is why i would like to amend orally the first two lines of recital e. the text should read as follows: 'whereas no real progress has been made in reversing the deterioration in the conditions for national and ethnic minorities in vojvodina, thereby jeopardising their future in the region, or in facilitating their participation', and then continue according to the original text. this was the request of the lawyer-linguists, in order to clarify our intention. i think it is a legitimate issue, because we have to have concrete and good texts for the other translations. that is why i ask my colleagues and you to vote for this oral amendment.
mr. president, i have to ask you... after my speech, i'd like to present a two-dollar bill. it was minted in 2005, and this two-row shows the 15 old member states, and not just the eurozone members, but also the uk, sweden and denmark, which are not in the eurozone. i would like to see the ten new member states on the map of europe one year after accession, even if we are not yet members of the euro area. but it would be very important from a symbolic point of view, and that is why i am asking the european central bank and the president to take action. it is a symbolic, small, small step, but believe me, for us, the new member states, it is a very important step.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to express my pleasure and gratitude as the chairman of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee for the council's decision last week to open accession negotiations with croatia. although the negotiations with turkey will start at the same time, i think it's important that we don't tie the two countries together during the screening or during the chapters. croatia should be assessed solely on its own merits and performance. croatia is not really about enlargement, but about reunification. after all, this nation of four and a half million has always been part of europe, part of our common history and culture. at the meeting of the parliamentary delegation, we also received assurances from our croatian colleagues that they would continue to cooperate fully with the international criminal court in the hague, as was the condition for the start of the negotiations. i ask each of you to help facilitate the swift and effective conduct of negotiations in your respective territories so that we can welcome our croatian friends as new members of the european parliament after the 2009 elections.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, mr bono’s report is excellent and in my two minutes i should like to make a few brief remarks about it. the new member states are less developed than the older ones in many areas, but not in relation to education. despite its ideological barriers, the hungarian educational system became rather successful after the second world war. there was hardly any social discrimination: children from different social backgrounds attended the same schools and extra lessons were either free or particularly inexpensive. if we want non-discriminatory access to quality education, we should have more general standards and fewer exceptions in education. for example, the teaching of foreign languages as part of the general curriculum should be paid by the budget and not by the parents themselves. non-discriminatory access should mean equal chances provided by the member states to children from the lower classes as well as ethnic minorities. in some member states, such as hungary, universities have entrance examinations. the general schooling system should provide enough knowledge for those exams, because the special courses are exclusive and expensive for children of the lower classes, for single parents and for children from ethnic minorities. the cooperation of the universities, on the one hand, and industry and its research centres on the other hand, should be regular and strong. this should also mean not only the development of education but the training of teachers. just today i met a young turkish expert from junior chamber international, hosted by our socialist group. she told me about a pilot project run by them and the european union, which already provided useful information on entrepreneurship for around a thousand turkish teachers. this kind of pilot project should be encouraged by us.
mr president, the circus is magic for children. the circus is a special entertainment for adults. the circus is art and provides jobs for the people who work in it. the circus is also a zoo for those people who live far away from real, official zoos of the big cities. the circus is a home for many families and a school for their children. the circus is both outside and inside our societies; outside with its magic and fairy tales, and inside with its everyday needs and realities. mrs pack’s excellent report respects the magic and she well knows that magic should not be regulated. so she is trying to help the circus people solve their everyday problems. it is a good approach. it is important to provide adequate education for the children of travelling communities. distance learning and e-learning can be part of the solution, but circus children should also meet other children coming from the so-called real life. a proper visa and work permit regime is also important for circus workers, as the circus really is without borders or frontiers. as a former member of the hungarian parliament i tabled an amendment to incorporate into our penal code a punishment for the torture of animals. so i respect the wording about animals, but nevertheless, i do not support a total ban on animal attractions in our circus and i think mrs pack has a wise approach to this issue. animals should be respected, but without them the circus would lose its ancient magic and we cannot kill magic. lions, elephants, monkeys and other exotic animals in the circus made my childhood more colourful and it should remain so for new generations. i would like to make a last remark which does not exactly concern the circus problem. i totally agree with mrs pack that work permits should be provided for circus workers, but i also think, as mr figel’ rightly pointed out, that work permits should also be provided for all working people in this european union, even those coming from new member countries and even countries like in germany.
poverty is a grave phenomenon, which affects women significantly more. women face multiple discrimination – elder women, women belonging to ethnic minorities, disabled women, lone parents – and are potential victims of social exclusion and extreme poverty. the risk of poverty is linked to unemployment. this risk increases if unemployment remains high. integrating disabled people, long-term unemployed, elder people and ethnic minorities into employment is a key challenge. economic, employment and social policies are mutually reinforcing. economic development should be accompanied by efforts to reduce poverty and to fight exclusion and discrimination. helping women getting employed is one of the key elements since employment generates income and promote social participation. if the lisbon employment target set for 2010 is to be achieved, factors underlying gender gap in employment, and pay need to be tackled vigorously. actions which make it easier for women to reconcile career with family should be further pursued. exchange of best practices of member states would be of great use in social protection systems, in eliminating and preventing violence against women. we should try harder to include social partners at national, regional and local level into policy development and implementation, especially in the area of education, employment and pensions.
my fellow citizens! i consider the report on women's poverty to be important, and i thank the rapporteur and the committee for it. the report demonstrates that decentralised european policymaking is an opportunity to analyse the common problems of a further enlarging eu. women's poverty can be explained by socio-social movements that affect other social groups. these are people in disadvantaged regions, people with disabilities, people from ethnic groups, people in old age poverty. in these vulnerable social groups, the female face of poverty is particularly pronounced. the lower wages, the shorter service life and the lower standard of living in the old member countries are characteristic of our female colleagues. the immigrants, the "old-fashioned" roma, have their own cultural traditions, which also pose special social obstacles to the long-term financial security and autonomy of women. the groups most at risk of female poverty are women raising children and retired (single) women. in the central european region, the risk of poverty for women is high, ranging from 21 to 28%. as age increases, more and more elderly people will be faced with a miserable old age without the help of european solidarity. reducing poverty also helps to promote human rights. the right to human dignity is a fundamental human right. poverty deprives a person of the opportunity to choose a life strategy. giving back the freedom of self-determination to the majority of women in the world is our mission. we ask this of ourselves and the eu institutions when we make laws and allocate common resources.
listening to this debate one may think that poverty and hunger are problems of the developing countries. deep poverty does exist in europe. therefore this parliament fully agrees that europe -along with an adequate assistance strategy- should join un efforts and contribute to ease the difficulties of those in need. with the forthcoming accessions,roma minority population of central and eastern europe will grow from a present estimated 1,5-2 million to 5-6 million, forming largest ethnic minority group in the eu. substantial fraction of roma live amongst particularly marginalised conditions, often in large families with many children. (ms zaborska is right in calling attention to double discrimination by gender and origin, however misses to note the threat of consequent child poverty). multiple handicaps lead to defying conditions for improvement or break through in need of prevention or targeted without delay. i ask the commission to make sure that complex development projects aimed at improving the quality of life of disadvantaged communities -especially that of the roma minority- will be embedded in the new cohesion policy of 2007-13 as requested by the ep-roma forum on 31st january, suggesting to join forces and share tasks with the 'roma decade programme' launched on 2nd february by the world bank, the open society foundation and 8 european national governments.
mr president, this regional development committee initiative report drafted by mr beaupuy is the opportunity to clearly highlight that urban problems are challenges that need to be dealt with at european level, not only at national or regional levels. following enlargement and bearing in mind the forthcoming accession of romania and bulgaria, it is obvious that now, more than ever, a pan-european strategy is needed in order to address the challenges of increased disparities in terms of urban policy between the members of the union. in my country and in most of the new member states, there are serious large-scale problems that need to be clearly addressed with comprehensive interventions such as economic and social actions, aimed at the revitalisation of deteriorated inner cities and the renovation of large post-war prefabricated housing estates. the causes of these problems do not only relate to the new member states, even if in these countries the situation is worse than elsewhere in the union. in the new member states, around 40% of the urban population lives in these deteriorated areas, creating ghettos within our cities. beside the disastrous social and economic consequences of this deterioration, environmental aspects should also be addressed. it is obvious that the new member states and cities are simply unable to deal with these challenges on their own. the newly proposed regulation only allows for a very limited scope of intervention for integrated urban actions. thus, the fate of the deteriorating inner city areas and the large housing estates will only get worse. everybody agrees that cities and urban agglomerations or areas have a central role to play in achieving the revitalisation and göteborg objectives. it is also clear that cities and urban agglomerations play a major role in achieving regional development objectives. it is therefore of the utmost importance seriously to strengthen the urban dimension within the mainstream structure of eu programmes. strengthening the urban dimension does not mean that we are requesting more money. on the contrary, we are calling for more flexibility and for the possibility to spend the available money on the most pressing and important issues.
mr. president, i have to ask you... on october 23, 1956, a revolution broke out in hungary. the message of the revolution to posterity is in three parts. what happened in 1956 was deeply democratic. it ensured the political role of the whole society, guaranteed the equality of human dignity, and proclaimed the unsustainability of dictatorial systems of oppression. on the other hand, he was attempting to establish a completely new political system. third, the revolution also spread to europe. it put the question of the eradication of communist tyranny on the european agenda. we, the hungarian delegation of the european people's party, hereby declare the period until the end of 2006 as the hungarian season, on the occasion of the half-century anniversary of the great hungarian revolution.
mr. president, i have to ask you... poverty is silent. the silence of the poor can be turned into a cry by those who have the power, the political clout. the sight is crying out. the hungry children in the streets, the old men in rags, the sleeping in the streets. the wailing silently breaks the silence of the gentile nicholas/church at the exhibit behind the altar. in europe of 25 more than 68 million people live below the poverty line. however, the poverty levels of the different member states cannot be compared. there is a gap between the old and the new member states. the enlargement so far and the enlargement to come make it particularly timely for the informal summit to address the european social model. i also believe that the most powerful weapon against poverty is more and better jobs. in a world of working adults, children inherit not the stigma of poverty, but opportunity, and the elderly can live in safety. but without community investment, all of this is hopeless. we socialists hope that this week's summit will hear and amplify the voice of the poor.
mr. president, i have to ask you... hungary has written world history twice, played world history twice during the 20th century. in 1956, and again in 1989-90, with the release of german refugees during the central european transition. 1956 was followed by solidarity in poland, and in 1968 by the prague spring. 1956 was the hungarian uprising against the soviet occupation, it was a war of freedom, a struggle for national independence and at the same time a struggle against the communist dictatorship. without this, there would have been no negotiated revolution in 1989, no peaceful change of regime in hungary, and hungary would not be a member of the eu today. albert camus said: "the most despised, handcuffed hungary has done more for freedom and justice than any other people in the world in the last twenty years".
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has delivered an opinion. - mr president, i have to go. the libe committee would like to thank the rapporteur for his work over the years in this parliament. the right to education is one of the most important of the fundamental human rights, which our committee considers to be one that cannot be impeded by economic circumstances, poverty or discrimination, and we must continue to demand equal treatment. equal treatment of different generations, older people, women, especially mothers raising children, and of course we expect this to be understood by employers who must treat lifelong learning as a strategic interest. we want to see an end to ethnic discrimination and to see full participation of people with disabilities in the learning process. for us, it is a community programme that brings the eu closer to its citizens and citizens closer to each other, and that is why we love this programme.
the development towards a knowledge-based society makes high demands on the educational level of the labour force. given the current economic climate, emergence of new economic competitors, investing in people becomes even more important. lifelong learning has therefore a key role in developing an integrated strategy for employment and particularly for promoting a well-trained workforce which is able to adapt to the continiously changing market environment. if managed pragmatically, the integrated approach will result in economic growth, greater civic participation, higher welfare. the action programme has in itself more chances then pure economic benefits: it has also potential to fulfill the goals and ambitions of member states to create tolerant and democratic societies, reduce inequalities and prevent marginalization, to participate in building a gender-balanced, better society. the comprehensive, and integrated programme of lifelong learning is vital for achieving the lisbon objectives. the coherence and synergy makes it even more efficient. the success lies in ensuring the accessibility to the opportunities for all european citizen at all levels.
mr. president, i have to ask you... youth 2000-2006 brought a lot of improvements. in many cases, it has made very serious progress in the lives of hungarian youth communities. however, there were some goals that the programme did not achieve. one of the problems was that the programme did not reach rural youth. disadvantaged young people living in rural slums could not easily get involved in the programme. that is why we must, from 2007, ensure that as many rural people as possible are involved. the youth communities in the countries participating in the programme would be better served by having more easily accessible information about the programme, information, a kind of database. we know that some progress has been made in this direction, but it would be important to make more successful projects available to young people and youth institutions. these projects will spark their imagination and provide them with valuable experience. the fact that they are increasingly looking to build on the work of municipal and municipal youth is also a positive development. this is correct because the principle of subsidiarity must be applied consistently in youth affairs. it is important that local youth work becomes an integral part of international youth cooperation. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the hungarian parliament has concluded a cooperation agreement, a programme agreement, with the serbian parliament on a programme of tolerance. under this programme, youth tolerance camps are organised, which can contribute to the prevention of ethnic and national incidents between hungarian and serbian young people. at these events, young people meet well-known artists, politicians, and athletes from both countries. they're creating a virtual parliament where they can deal with human rights and minority issues. i am sure that the youth in action programme in many countries provides an opportunity for young people to understand and get to know each other better, which is the basis for action against all forms of discrimination and which contributes to improving the level of tolerance of young people. i congratulate you mrs gröner.
member of the commission. let me thank you for the contributions and views expressed by the rapporteur, but also by the various committees and also by the political groups and individuals. i am convinced that the years we are in are difficult, but also hopeful. for young people, it started with the white paper, the youth programme that is under way is popular, and the proposal on the table is a confirmation and extension of the possibilities, financial support, inclusion of countries or geographical space, extension of the age range. for the first time in history, the summit of heads of state or government adopted specific conclusions in the form of a european youth pact. we have been doing our youth communication with young people this year and this week i will be in cardiff with the heads of state to discuss these issues with european youth. the flexibility of the programme can also be very well reflected in the december youth week in brussels, which can provide a good platform for linking different programmes, for example towards culture and youth, towards sport and youth, towards social inclusion and youth. as far as financial regulation and rules are concerned, i am a strong advocate of simplification, transparency, and speeding up procedures. that is why we have included over 100 proposals in the draft amended financial regulation for the european union. this proposal is now in the hands of the parliament and the council. i hope that this will be reflected very positively in parliament and in the council and will help in all the areas mentioned. i would also like to say that the proposal mentioned by mrs grässlová on behalf of the committee on budgets, like many other amendments, is supported by the european commission. in conclusion, i would strongly recommend that this programme be implemented in coherence and in compatibility with other programmes such as the lifelong learning programme or the citizenship programme, because they have great potential if they are developed in synergy, in complementarity, in coherence. and a final note: i would be very happy if, this week, after your vote, i could explain to the young people of europe in cardiff on thursday that the youth in action programme may be one of the first to be approved, with a limit on the financial perspective, but as a content and instrument for the future european union in the years 2007 to 2013. so, thank you for that approach.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to express my gratitude to the author of this report on culture 2007, mr graça moura, for his excellent work and for the sound cooperation between our two institutions. i am very pleased that the general line proposed by the commission has been welcomed by parliament and that the draft report agrees with the main objectives of our proposal. this focus on objectives will enable the programme to deliver more european added value. although support for the projects is clearly a key component of the programme, the draft report also approves the commission’s proposal to go beyond the mere ‘project approach’ and support organisations, studies and the collection and dissemination of information in the field of cultural cooperation. as you know, the commission proposal does not mention any sector specifically. our intention is to cover all fields of artistic and cultural life without any prejudice and to promote cross-sectoral activities. on the budget, i am very grateful that this programme has received a great deal of political support in the house, from both committees and groups, and i am glad to see that you propose even stronger financial backing for this cooperation. i agree that the increase to eur 600 million proposed by parliament would make it easier for the programme to attain its objectives and to reach a critical mass, but the commission cannot amend its original proposal; we are waiting for the agreement on the financial perspective. i am pleased to say that the commission is able to accept either word-for-word or in substance some of the other amendments contained in the report see annex for a full list of the commission’s position on the amendments by parliament. the commission can agree with the transfer the memorial action from the culture programme to the citizenship programme and will confirm that in a specific declaration. it is important to continue to support this action. i also agree with the proposal to extend this action to the victims of stalinist regimes. on translation, as i said in my introduction, no sector is specifically mentioned. however, we understand parliament’s request to include a reference to literary translation in the annex to the decision in order to take into account the specific conditions in this field of activity. some of you very rightly stressed the importance of our european cultural heritage. that heritage needs to be understood in a broader sense so as to include the values and the ways of life that have defined our identities. we fully understand that concern. indeed the preservation of cultural heritage is one of the aims of article 151 of the treaty. on the basis of this article, we succeeded last week in promoting cultural diversity in unesco through a special convention on this matter. that could be achieved in this programme by including appropriate references in the recitals to the decision. however, we cannot accept cultural heritage being mentioned as a specific objective of the programme, as this would clearly run counter to the non-sectoral, ‘open to all sectors’ approach of the original proposal. there are other amendments that the commission is not prepared to accept. i will mention just a few of them, because they concern the question of access for small operators or small projects. for the commission, it is essential to strike the right balance between small and large projects and between long-term and short- or medium-term projects. therefore, the commission cannot agree with the proposed lowering of the minimum level of grants for cooperation measures for shorter projects from eur 60 000 to eur 30 000, because this would lead to an avalanche of project proposals, which could not be co-funded owing to a lack of resources. already the refusal rate is 70% to 75%. if such an amendment were adopted, it would be even higher. the commission also disagrees with the proposal to increase the maximum level of community cofinancing to 70%. we must not forget that our cultural policy is governed by the principles of complementarity and subsidiarity. finally, the commission cannot accept the proposal to decrease the minimum number of partners from four to three for shorter duration projects and to decrease the number of countries from six to four for longer duration projects. should the number of partners or countries be lowered, it would diminish the visibility of the programme in an enlarged europe. in spite of that, i hope that the excellent climate of cooperation that has characterised relations between our institutions up to now will continue to help find a mutually satisfying compromise. that is all the more necessary because the new programme should be adopted in time to allow for a timely and smooth implementation. in conclusion, i very much hope that the next meeting of the ministers for culture in november will be in a position to reach a political agreement, leaving aside all budget-related matters. i would like to stress once more the benefits expected from this new culture programme. the programme will actively contribute to the promotion of inter-cultural dialogue, raising awareness of a common european heritage, celebrating the richness and diversity of our cultures, and increasing openness to other cultures.
the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs is drawn up by the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, i'd like to thank the speaker for his excellent work. i'm sure you put a lot of work into it. the fact of globalization is irreversible. as a result, the cultural offerings and the networks of contact between people and other peoples have been incredibly expanded. national characteristics are dissolved in some areas and national identity has been enhanced through the interaction of cultures. the new circumstances are shedding new light on national and common european identities. i would like to emphasise that in a globalised world, culture is one of the most important tools for strengthening, deepening and promoting a common european identity, while preserving the cultural diversity between nations. the evaluation carried out by the committee, which was based on extensive consultation, indicated that there was a need to streamline and strengthen community activities in this area as well. it is important to emphasise that community activities in the fields of culture, education, youth, sport, research and discrimination must be closely linked in order to achieve effective results, avoiding the possibility of unnecessary duplication. community activities should complement and be consistent with other community activities. cooperation between national and regional programmes should be increased as much as possible in order to increase efficiency. i am confident that the proposed programme can contribute to better coordination of community action, focusing on the benefits provided by european added value. finally, i would like to emphasise that the role of cultural foreign policy is being reassessed, and that what is at stake is the creation of more cultured, more demanding, more cultured, more democratic nation states. so it is a community of european states that is capable of renewal, but also of self-awareness and self-esteem. and as the commissioner mentioned in his introduction, i hope that the amendments... (the president was excused. )
the commission has declared 2007 the year of equal opportunities. to help disadvantaged groups to gain access, they need to be given a greater role in the media than they currently have. the largest ethnic minority in europe is the roma, some 15 million strong, who are among the most marginalized social groups in the eu countries. at the same time, the culture of roma enriches, colours and enriches the social and cultural life of european countries. in a society characterised by equality of opportunity, the media have a prominent role to play. disadvantaged groups, and thus roma, should be given the possibility to appear in the media more often than at present, in accordance with their weight, and to create and use media suitable for this purpose, and this should be supported by union financial support. we need to encourage mass media to promote cross-cultural understanding. the roma minorities in all european countries need to be effectively supported in their media presence, in the integration process and in the preservation of their own cultural values. the first steps towards the creation of a pan-european roma tv should be supported in the formulation and implementation of the necessary european and local strategies.
mr. president, i have to ask you... commissioner, allow me to thank you personally for the openness with which you have always dealt with our requests for accession. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu is a historic moment. but let's step down from the historical high and look at the real thing. the main issue in this debate is whether and to what extent the country report reflects the romanian reality. i'd like to focus on romania this time. there are many areas to consider, and not just in terms of official statistics, but in terms of everyday reality. the commission's report also highlights more serious issues such as the internal market, animal health regulation, food safety, or simply the lack of institutions that would make agricultural subsidies available to romanian farmers. at the same time, serious measures have been taken in the area of judicial reform. the commission is also assessing this and therefore all credit goes to minister makovej. but while we hear about the resounding results in terms of political criteria and the orderly fate of the 1.6 million hungarians living in the minority line, nothing concrete is happening. like the minority bill, no part of the compromise is going to pass. although the report still mentions it as a positive point, i must inform you, commissioner, that the minority law was rejected by the romanian senate yesterday. and in the debate, they could hear hate speech, discrimination, things that would not be good for any democracy. in the early 1990s, hungarians living there might have heard something similar. based on yesterday's shocking vote, there can be no talk of cultural autonomy, or any autonomy that would really be a solution for the large hungarian community. according to the chairman of the competent committee of the romanian parliament, i quote: "in a state of law, there is no such thing!" i ask you, what kind of rule of law is this? the legal situation regarding the restitution of church property is settled. however, in practice, the return is made impossible by privatising the repossessed properties underground or by slowing down the privatisation process through a series of lawsuits. the title cannot be enforced. what kind of market economy is this? we have to say the problems sometime, because naming them can help solve them. we in parliament are called to name names, and that is no small task. this is the best way to help the people in romania. by wanting to see reality with and for those who have the duty to see it in brussels and romania.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i'd like to welcome the scouts. and i do so because they can be here today because the socialist group has stuck to its position, so that after the signing of the accession treaty on 25 april, they can study the work of parliament alongside the other eu institutions, and so that the actual accession can proceed smoothly. both the enlargement commissioner and my colleagues have already listed the shortcomings that can be found in the two countries, so i will not repeat this, as i am sure that the observers will convey this to their own country. however, i welcome the fact that the new government in bulgaria, following the elections on 25 june, is led by socialists, as the socialists have always been the driving force behind enlargement, not only in the old eu member states but also among the new and the acceding countries. in bulgaria, both the ruling and opposition parties have reached a consensus on the successful implementation of eu accession. as the commissioner mentioned, legislation has been speeded up in the last two months and 30 laws have been passed in the run-up to accession, which the commission has criticised, on subjects such as the fight against corruption, judicial reform and organised crime. their action is not yet sufficient, as the emphasis should be on enforcement, and i would ask both the bulgarian and romanian governments to use the remaining time in the future to do so. as a hungarian, i would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about romania, because as many in this room know, there is a hungarian minority of one and a half million in romania, whose only chance is to join the eu with romania and thus live happily with us in a common europe without borders.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we liberals support romania's accession as of 1 january 2007. this is possible even now in the light of the report presented by the commissioner. but it does require serious effort. the romanian government deserves credit for the efforts it has made in recent months to meet the requirements. he's done a lot, but he's got a lot more to do. judicial reform is stalled, the fight against corruption is fearless and ineffective. neighboring countries are seriously concerned about the state of the environment. the opening of the gold mine in verespatak has raised new concerns. we expect the highest environmental standards here. we are particularly concerned about the senate's rejection of the minority bill yesterday. we hope that prime minister tariceanu's promise that this law will be passed by the house of representatives in a short time will not remain unfulfilled. we will, however, take that promise into account. we hope that soon members of the hungarian minority will be able to study at a state university in their native hungarian language, we hope that there will be a noticeable change in the situation of the roma, and we acknowledge the efforts made by the romanian government in this area. much more than the one before it, but there's still a lot to do. romania therefore has a realistic chance of joining in 2007. we'd like you to become a member in 2007. the liberal group will be able to help you with this, and i think all the groups in this parliament will be able to help you, but they will have to do most of the work.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the speakers before me have spoken about what romania and bulgaria have promised and what they have delivered up to the end of the accession negotiations. i want to talk about something else. the future of eu directives drawn up between the conclusion of the accession negotiations and the date of actual accession. the directive on mining waste is currently being negotiated. the directive, which was initiated by the commission following the cyanide mine disaster in romania in 2000. at that time, drinking water supplies and the environment were seriously polluted in romania, ukraine, slovakia, and hungary. this directive was issued to prevent a similar disaster from ever happening again. the directive is expected to be adopted by december. is it possible, mr commissioner, for the commission and the council to make any concessions to romania in respect of compliance with this directive? what guarantees can you give that this will not happen? why do i ask? i ask because, although the romanian mine disaster happened five and a half years ago, no compensation has been awarded. the trial is also barely progressing, but the harmful company continues to operate uninterrupted in romania. neither the victims nor nature were compensated. neither in hungary nor in the other affected countries. i also support romania's eu membership so that it can be fully covered by eu rules and we can enforce them. the protection of the environment, the prevention of damage or the compensation for damage caused by it is a fundamental right and duty in a civilized european country. in romania, it's not like that yet. it is up to the council and the commission to decide whether that will be the case. i therefore ask the commission and the council: will you guarantee that romania and bulgaria will not be temporarily excluded from the scope of the new mining directive?
mr. president, i have to ask you... we've set ourselves big goals in this cycle. improved employment, better transport, a knowledge-based society, strong cohesion, our visible presence in the world. the budget for next year is not helping to achieve those goals, although i do appreciate that the council has, if only slightly, gone over the guilty one percent. the committee on budgets, led by the rapporteur, would therefore increase payments by four billion next year, and we could spend 3.7 billion more on cohesion policy. after the adoption of our proposal, we are still well below the level envisaged in the current medium-term framework. if the council does not support this symbolic increase in spending at second reading, it will be acknowledging that it does not take national development plans seriously, that the new member states have not learned from the mistakes of the first years and that there is still a majority of governments that believe that their own problems can be solved by the union's restraint. that's a big mistake. it is not the saving of money for the union but the better use of the opportunities it offers that can give europe's economy a boost. more europe is the answer, not less. so, my fellow members, please support the motion before us.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to congratulate giovanni pittella on his excellent work and his excellent report. this budget is of great importance for hungary and the other newly joined countries. on the one hand, because it is a transitional measure to the financial plan for 2007-13, which will hopefully be adopted as soon as possible and will be defined by the european parliament in a framework to be defined, and on the other hand, because the budget has already been drawn up with the participation of all the member states as equal partners, from preparation to execution. we've finally gotten around to the 15 plus 10 distinction. the importance of this fact in the light of yesterday's discussions i think i need not stress. the establishment of the 2006 budget and the financial perspective for 2007-13 were both the result of close cooperation, not only in committee meetings but also in the conciliation process. for the first time, we could really say that the 25 member states are equal partners, there is no difference between us. this is extremely important, because we can only build a common europe together. the main figures in the 2006 budget are for hungary, as they were already defined earlier by the copenhagen accord. however, we have been able to change some of them in the course of the amendments to achieve our common european values. we are particularly pleased to provide serbia with a larger framework for a joint hungarian proposal, thus demonstrating that the eu not only creates the conditions but also pays a fair price for their implementation.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to thank both the ombudsman and mr mavrommatis for their excellent reports, and i would like to begin with a personal note. i am a member from a new member state and when we discussed the ombudsman's annual report last year, i had no personal experience of either the committee on petitions or the ombudsman's institution. however, as mr mavrommatis mentioned in his report, during the ombudsman's annual activities last year and his campaign in the new member states, many hungarian citizens became aware of their right to petition the union. i welcome the fact that they are exercising this right and if the submissions do not always meet the union's expectations and we do not always know what to do with them it is certainly helpful for the citizens of the new member states to have another forum to turn to. as mrs wallström mentioned in her speech, the commission has a reform plan to help us in our endeavours. european citizens have a legitimate expectation of efficient and open public service. i hope that the commission will continue to pursue the reform efforts set out in the speech. as many of you have said in this debate, i would also like to ask the council to make every council meeting open to the other institutions of the union, as the ombudsman has said in his special report. but if they like to make their political decisions behind closed doors, at least the legislative process should be transparent for us, and we should be present at these decisions. last year, mr diamandurosz produced a paper which further strengthened the cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions and set up the so-called ombudsman network, which he mentioned in his introduction. this is also welcome, and i am very pleased that representatives of the committee on petitions have been able to attend this year's meeting of this network. i would like to conclude by once again drawing everyone's attention to the fact that the european ombudsman's work over the past ten years has been a real success, but there is still a lot of work to be done. and we must all keep them at the centre of all the eu's institutions and bodies, so that european citizens feel that we are working for them, to uphold their rights, to solve public issues in their interests.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, allow me to congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, mr manolis mavrommatis, who has given a very careful reading to the european ombudsman's 2004 annual report on his activities to the european parliament. i myself support the ombudsman's close cooperation with the european parliament's committee on petitions, as this means that citizens' complaints are also sent directly to the decision-makers of the european parliament, giving a direct feedback to the effectiveness of eu legislation. the 2004 report published by the european ombudsman shows that the number of complaints received in 2004 increased by 53% compared to 2003. even more surprising, only half of the increase came from the ten newly joined countries. in other words, it might seem as if the citizens and businesses of the new countries are less harmed in the eu or have less to complain about. as a representative of one of these newly joined member states, i can tell you from experience that neither is true. while it is true that the majority of the ten new member states had fewer complaints in proportion to their population, this is due more to the relative obscurity of the institution of the european ombudsman than to the small number of complaints. unfortunately, the eight new post-socialist states are still characterized by a lack of information and a fear of being denounced, a malaise rooted in historical experience. unfortunately, to this day, meps are often approached informally by citizens who are facing discrimination in the european institutions. so i know from experience that we have a hard time getting them to complain to the ombudsman. as a member of the european parliament, although not a european worker, i have encountered discrimination on several occasions in the 18 months since accession. i would like to mention, for example, the practice in parliament whereby our written questions are translated into the languages of the old 15 member states only, and our answers are given in english or french only, in addition to our mother tongue. i would like to draw mr diamanduros' attention to the discriminatory phenomenon which is observed in the recruitment process in the european institutions. the competition for the 25 member states requires that candidates take the examination in two of the 15 eu languages. thus, while an applicant from the old member state may take the examination in his own mother tongue and in a foreign language, an applicant from the new member state may not use his mother tongue. i get countless complaints like this every day. on tuesday, parliament discussed the vaxholm case in sweden, but we have seen similar discrimination against companies from the new member states on many occasions. let me mention the case of soko bunda and the so-called soko pannónia case, in which dozens of hungarian companies were forced out of the german market by methods that have now been declared wrong by the courts. my colleagues and i have also approached the commissioner responsible. in this context, i consider it essential that citizens are kept informed. i was pleased to read that there is a growing awareness in eu countries of the right of citizens to turn to the ombudsman in relation to maladministration. i think it is very important to stress that the institution of the ombudsman is not a plurilateral authority or an executive agency, but a special institution created to help citizens with their problems and complaints. the ombudsman's 2004 report has the particular merit of providing a thematic analysis of the work, in addition to a presentation of the cases and investigations. i am particularly pleased to note that the ombudsman is taking an active public role in informing citizens.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in france, burning cars are a torch to highlight the presence of discrimination and social exclusion. the thousands of burned-out cars have also destroyed our hopes of finding a quick, immediate solution to the complex social and societal problem that has triggered the garage actions in the ghettoized outskirts of french cities. to mourn only over lost material possessions is to show a complete lack of understanding of events, a failure to see the cause-and-effect relationship. a number of questions may arise in the minds of reasonable citizens, not just on the pretext of a threat to their financial security. you can rightly feel that the social balance has been shaken, that there is no contact, no movement between different classes, different ethnic groups. and this is far from a law enforcement issue, far from a public safety issue, which is why it cannot be addressed by traditional means of public policing. the crisis was the result of bad policies and bad decisions. the third generation of immigrants, marginalized, has no sense of home, no job, no purpose in life, no vision of the future.
globalisation is increasing the interconnectedness and interdependence of the peoples of the modern world, leading to a world that is becoming more unified, thanks to the rapid development of technologies, transport, telecommunications and computing. they say the world is shrinking into a village, but some people think it's more like a narrow, upper-class world society coming together, while the majority is being left behind. the debate is whether it is about globalisation or whether it is about the growing gap between the richest and poorest sections of society worldwide. globalization can be used for good or for bad. however, a careful analysis of economic trends shows that the poorest people in the world are the ones who have been left out of the process of globalisation, while the national incomes of all the states that have benefited from the international division of labour have increased. with the world's two most populous countries, china and india, globalisation has actually helped to raise the standard of living of the majority of the world's poor. all signs point to the fact that the risks of poverty are greater if a country is isolated from globalisation than if it is part of it. globalization must be beneficial for everyone to be successful. this requires strong international institutions to ensure sustainable development. real, time-bound commitments are needed in europe and around the world. the eu's external and internal policies, as well as its social model and international development, can serve as an example for the rest of the world in terms of ethical, positive globalisation.
author. - mr president, i have to go. the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy is keeping a close eye on the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting in europe. frequency, as a very important resource, must be used efficiently. europe cannot afford to be left behind in this area. in other words, if we want to keep our lisbon objectives, if we want to participate in this area of innovation, we cannot afford to miss the switch. we therefore support the commission's target date of 2012 as the year in which the switch-off of analogue broadcasting must take place throughout the union. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to fully join this roadmap, while planning the transitional period, the so-called simulcasting period, as short as possible. this transition will only be successful if it is coordinated. we therefore recommend that the commission establish a european digital task force possibly within the framework of existing structures in order to make the transition as coordinated as possible. we propose that this working group should be responsible for monitoring the progress of the member states and for coordinating objectives and regulations. initiate discussions and consultations between member states and market players. the european parliament is of the opinion that the transition will be a tangible result if the surplus frequency freed up by the technological change is used flexibly and is also used at european level. it is therefore necessary to start work on how best to use the surplus frequency in time. i am thinking here of the possibility of creating new pan-european services, as well as in the field of transport, to give one example, but there are many others. well, this working group can provide the framework for that. the need for technological neutrality and interoperability, which are one of the pillars of european innovation in this area, cannot be overemphasised in order to ensure that the transition delivers the desired results. we also call on the member states to ensure the principles of objectivity, transparency, proportionality and non-discrimination in the transition process and in the use of the excess frequency. the european parliament believes that the transition will be successful if european citizens can use the most advanced technologies for digital reception, such as the multimedia home platform or the so-called open epi. so we can eliminate the vertical constrictions. in order to ensure that these technologies reach all european citizens, it may be necessary to support these tools at national level in accordance with community law. we must therefore ensure that there is no digital divide between regions in europe, but rather the opposite. we invite the commission to present models of best practice that apply to funding. transition is not just about making a profit for the economy, but also about providing a better, more advanced service for european citizens by addressing the associated social and cultural challenges. for example, public service platforms could be flagships of the transition. we suggest that the common position to be jointly established at the 2006 regional radiocommunication conference should also cover the shortest possible transition period for third countries. the european parliament hopes that the council meeting in december will take account of parliament's opinion on the tasks ahead.
mr. president, i have to ask you... 2004 was the year of enlargement, so the 2004 report is the first to cover the 25 member states. it is therefore gratifying to see that the report presented to us is a positive, realistic, balanced statement of how eu money has been used in the old and new member states. the court's 2004 report shows the impact of the reforms launched last year. this was called for in a report by my colleague, terry wynn, which was adopted by a large majority in parliament, and in the integrated internal control framework announced by the european commission and its vice-president, siim kallas. the reform is based on mutual trust and close cooperation between the european parliament, the commission and the court of auditors. moreover, this would require action by the council to introduce national attestations, which is still resisted. we cannot go on without this, we need this statement from the council.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european commission's 2006 work plan is a good example of the positive aspects of social responsibility, labour law and employment. initiatives dealing with working time, relocation, people who are disadvantaged for various reasons and initiatives in the field of work and health can certainly be considered as such. at the same time, we must see that the economic actors, the citizens, are frustrated by the excessive bureaucracy of the procedures. it is therefore essential to ensure that the most effective way of helping smes is to simplify and make the eu regulatory environment more transparent for them. i was very pleased to hear president barroso's commitment to the creation of a single market for services. i think that is also necessary in terms of competitiveness and success and also in terms of creating new jobs. i would also like to add that the commission has a prominent role to play in assessing the experience gained during the year with regard to the free movement of labour. we hope that it will not simply provide objective analysis, but will be the engine, the catalyst, for the swift removal of the transitional restrictions. this measure is an important complement to the single market and leads to the creation of many new jobs. we therefore hope that the commission will make progress in both the area of competitiveness and the creation of an internal market guaranteeing growth, and at the same time in the area of a social regulatory environment based on european values. these are the most important challenges. a balanced policy is needed here to avoid delaying the rapid accession of lisbon in 2012.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i see that we are all working to create an efficient, workable, successful system to improve the safety of chemicals. the rapid implementation of pre-registration is key to this. this allows the agency to alert all manufacturers, importers and consumers immediately if any new knowledge about a substance is known. at the same time, we must not allow the reach draft to lead to any discrimination between manufactured and naturally occurring substances, between certain geographical areas, between member states - i am thinking here of the new member states with poorer capital industries - or between large and small companies. reach affects the whole of european industry, which means that we are talking about millions of jobs. statistics show that unemployment is one of the greatest threats to human health, to human longevity. we can only pass legislation that creates at least as many new jobs as it can eliminate. innovation, research and development are important to find better quality materials and to produce them economically. we were guided by the principles of the environment, health and safety at work when we tabled our amendments as members of the committee on industry. please support them. finally, allow me to offer guido sacconni a much more beautiful and at the same time healthier apple from my own garden.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we need a strong and effective reach. one that protects both human health and the environment, reduces animal testing, while preserving the competitiveness of the chemical industry, increasing transparency, strengthening the internal market, but also complying with wto rules. the question is, do they have a common denominator? can we achieve radical improvements in our health without compromising the burden on small and medium-sized businesses? the only way reach is going to succeed is if our answer is yes. we must therefore support the uk-hungary proposal known as osor and not allow it to be watered down. it is in the interest of smes and in the interest of common sense that data sharing should be mandatory, while respecting strictly commercial secrets. the ultimate goal of reach is to replace substances that are harmful to health and the environment. so we need to move forward with regulation in this area as boldly as possible. as a physician, i know that our intentions are limited by the limitations of technology, but within those limits, let's not be afraid to be as rigorous as we can. i also oppose attempts to water down registration, supporting the position of the environmental protection committee. i believe that this is the only way to ensure comprehensive protection for our children and the environment. the key to reach's effectiveness and efficiency is the ability of those involved to implement it. i therefore support the limitation of the costs of reach to 0.2% of annual turnover for smes, which will ensure the enforceability of the regulation. it is not the aim to push the european chemical industry out to other regions of the world, because on a global scale it does not solve our problems, and indeed... so we have to go to the limit of what is possible, but until then, we have to go. i didn't bring apples for mr. sacconi, but congratulations.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, i have to go. the most important result of the enlargement package is that it provides a clear perspective for the western balkan countries. the part of the proposal declaring macedonia a candidate country is particularly positive. it recognises the progress and efforts made by macedonia in recent years. however, it is right that it did not set a date for the start of negotiations, as neither macedonia nor the european union are ready for this today. we hope that in a few years both macedonia and europe will be ready for these negotiations to begin. the union expects the western balkan countries to do two things: they're closing down their tragic past, handing over war criminals to the hague tribunal, ante gotovina, mladic, karadzic all of them. and do everything possible to restore ethnic peace. that is, to expand minority rights and ensure that they are broadly enforced. whether it's the vichy or kosovo. we also expect that efforts will be stepped up to meet the conditions, to explore the possibilities of regional cooperation, to make borders transferable. the real measure of the western balkans' integration capacity is whether they can cooperate with each other. i hope they will be able to do so, and prove that they are prepared for european integration.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, as a newcomer from a new member state, i should perhaps express my great appreciation to the rapporteur and to the community institutions, the council and the commission, for the work they have done. and perhaps this is a positive message to the citizens of the eu that we can respond quickly and achieve a serious result. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and all three institutions in general for having managed to identify the levels that correspond to the need for subsidiarity: that is, what we are doing on this issue at community level and what needs to be implemented and resolved at member state level. for humanitarian reasons, i'd just like to make a few remarks this late at night. one is that i hope that this agreement comes into force as soon as possible, it's very important. some elements - the development of common criteria, the setting up of institutions - will take time, however, and in the meantime we must do something to send a positive message to citizens. the other is that i'm totally in agreement with the goals, the sanctions, and so on. however, the detailed possibility of redress and the precise definition of redress for airlines adversely affected by this should be provided. i also think that we need to work out the detailed conditions under which we can be excluded from this list. it's very detailed how to get on the list, but just as important is how to get off the list. passenger compensation is paid. of course, it is very important that someone else be given the opportunity to fly or receive a financial refund, but it is also very important to consider the moral damage that, in some cases, such a situation would cause to the person who has to cancel his or her trip at the last minute. finally, i would like to point out that the right to a penalty for failure to provide information, which i have proposed, must be upheld. i also think it is right that we do this at national level, but the responsibility of the national levels is enormous to ensure that there are no disproportionate differences between member states as to who sets what level of penalties. we'll have to think about that later. once again, i hope you'll accept this excellent report.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. i welcome mrs harms' report, but i would also like to remind you that the debate today is not about nuclear pro- or anti-nuclear, but about security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. we all know that the cost of carrying out the decommissioning of a nuclear power station in a professional and safe manner is very high. i am convinced that we agree with all the european institutions, the commission, parliament and any of my colleagues that nuclear safety cannot be saved. the polluter pays principle is accompanied by the saying 'safety comes at a price'. i would like to stress that the european union must acknowledge slovakia's willingness to make sacrifices. the closure of the two units of the bohemian power plant was to be undertaken at the very end of the accession process, as a sine qua non condition. we knew then that this would lead to a loss of production capacity, which slovakia would have to make up by new investment and imports. we have a saying, "the man who orders the musician pays the price". in this sense, i therefore consider the slovak request to the european institution to carry out the work of safe dismantling to be entirely justified. in my view, there are at least three elements within the principles and policies of the european union which justify european support for disarmament. the first is territorial, economic and social cohesion between member states. slovakia has made and is making good on its commitments to the union, but it cannot overcome its own limitations, its own level of economic development. the second is the security of energy supply, to which the population and industry have the same right in slovakia as in any other member state of the union. let's not forget that we decided not so long ago, for example, that 20% of our energy should come from renewable sources by 2020, so it's not the same as it used to be. the third is the fight against energy dependency. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the capacity of the union industry is inadequate. i therefore ask my colleagues to support amendment no 16 which aims to do just that.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, we have seen the faces of the victims of the new orleans hurricane and flood. global warming does not mean actual warming in every single part of the world. it means a growing number of disasters, for instance weather irregularities, huge losses of lives and valuables. we simply use too much fossil energy. if the developing nations, including almost three billion people in china and india, follow the american way of consumption then we will burn up our planet. that is why on behalf of the socialist group i welcome mr wijkman’s brave report. nice words are not enough, however. we have to urge our partners to ratify the kyoto protocol. we have to find allies for this goal among broadminded politicians and citizens in the us who understand the importance of sustainable development. in order to reduce emissions we need a strong shift to public transport. rail is five times more efficient than road transport. furthermore, it is environmentally friendly. but the european union still lacks the proper tools to encourage it. the eu does not have any projects to improve urban public transport, and the growing number of cars in our cities means that urban life is becoming more and more chaotic and unhealthy. our urban population deserves more care from us as politicians as regards clean air and good public transport. renewable energies are developing in some countries, but in other member states only a few steps have been taken. we need binding targets if not for 2010 then at least for 2020. there is one point on which i would contradict mrs beckett. i think that semi-solutions such as carbon storage cannot be a solution for the future. instead of hiding our growing emissions temporarily, we have to reduce them. if a nuclear power station is to be closed down for any reason it should be replaced only by renewable energies. closing nuclear power stations and using more fossil energy would be a kind of collective suicide.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the hampton court summit showed that the european union must be fundamentally renewed. the union needs both the harmonisation of research and development, a significant increase in spending on education, the liberalisation of services and a common european energy policy. we have the diagnosis, but the answers are in the hands of europe's leaders. we know what we should do, but we don't know how to achieve those goals. they don't have the resources to do that. more europe cannot be built with less money. there is still no agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13 which could be tragic for us as new member states, as we could lose two thirds of our potential financial support. that is why the financial guidelines are very important to us. i also think it is very important, when tony blair attacked the common agricultural policy, that we do not have to go ahead by destroying the existing community policies, because cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are the union's great achievements. they should not be destroyed, but more community policies should be implemented in other areas. the big question is how to do all this. the hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány proposed that we establish coordinated cooperation alongside community policies, which would mean that we coordinate national policies in different areas. this would not mean new community policies, but it would help to improve cooperation in energy and research and development. i ask mr barroso, i ask the commission to help europe recover from the current crisis, to move forward in coordinated cooperation.
i have already been told by several speakers how important the agricultural issues are for the doha round: the european union cannot sacrifice agriculture on the altar of wto negotiations, the european union has already done a lot for developing countries, for example, 85% of african food exports go to the european union. but we must also add that the european union must also be active in agricultural negotiations, and not just be defensive. we must also seek to integrate animal welfare, environmental protection and geographical origin into the wto's agricultural trade regulatory system, because this is in the interests of european farmers and european consumers. mr peter mandelson has a difficult task when he is negotiating, because he has to make sure that the negotiations result in benefits for all 25 member states, and therefore the different benefits must be balanced between our different member states. the doha round is a development round, and it would therefore be unacceptable if only the most industrially advanced member states were doing well and the less developed, poorer member states, which are mainly based on agricultural activities, were doing poorly, so that the richest would be richer and the poorest poorer. this would be particularly unacceptable now that the uk presidency has proposed a 10% cut in the cohesion funds.
principle 4 of the olympic charter, the most important constitution of international sport, clearly states that the practice of sport is a fundamental and inalienable human right. in line with this, some european constitutions - for example, the greek, portuguese or swiss - provide directly for the right to physical education and sport. the right to sport is declared at constitutional level, and the state's responsibility for sport, its role and its obligation to support physical education and sport is unquestionable. the draft constitution of the european union also directly provides for sport, expressing the importance of sport and recognising its importance in european societies. however, the delay in ratification and the deadlock in the process of incorporating sport into the european constitution, which will determine the future of european sport, could be jeopardised. europe is the international center of sport. no other continent has such a significant sports presence. opinion polls show that 70% of european citizens have some connection with sport on a daily basis. there is no family in europe where at least one member is not affected. sport has a great power to bring cultures, nations, ethnic groups together, to integrate, as is demonstrated by the world peace competitions, the olympic games, the world championships. this is reflected in the fact that the un and the european union have devoted the past year and this year to sport and education through sport. unfortunately, despite all this, the recognition of sport within the european union is not widespread. in budgetary debates, sport is rarely, if ever, mentioned as a separate budget line or chapter. the european union has not provided adequate financial support to ensure that sport is treated with dignity. i find it wrong to view sport as something that is only about the commercial side. the role of sport in society goes beyond its commercial character.
mr president, i would like to thank mr sifunakis and mr berlinguer for this wonderful initiative. it would be really nice to have peace or at least a ceasefire all over the world during the next olympic games. perhaps, according to some critics, this initiative could seem to be a naive approach. however, sometimes we have to show that our assembly is not only a legislation factory: we are also a moral forum distributing european values and the message of peace. if only some of the countries in the world follow our initiative, we shall save many lives. the sportsmen from countries with troubles will know that their loved ones are safe at home, which will inspire them to move faster, higher and stronger, as baron de coubertin said. if we are speaking about naivety, the fall of the berlin wall seemed to be a naive dream for decades and then it became a reality. perhaps the olympic truce will also become a reality for us and the coming generations.
i would like to draw attention to the state of a beautiful hungarian river, the rába. since 2003, this river has been polluted by 3 tanneries in the austrian section, which use naphthalene sulfonate for tanning and release it into the raba at the end of the process. the water is swollen, it has a strong smell, so it has a negative impact on the wildlife and it discourages tourists and athletes from the river. the problem has already provoked reactions from the austrian side. in hungary, there is a constant media response and the population living in the upper part of the raba is particularly sensitive to pollution, as fishing and water tourism are important in this beautiful and wild part of the raba. because of the cross-border nature of the problem, i ask my austrian colleagues to help us speed up the process, to help us protect our common treasure, the river rabah, on the border of our two countries, in the spirit of the traditional friendship between our two countries.
hungarian public opinion is very confused because the new member states still take the european commission seriously, its criticism. we all know that 11 countries, germany, italy, france, portugal and greece, are being subject to excessive deficit procedures for exceeding the criteria for a government deficit. at the same time, it can be observed that mr almunia, the finance commissioner, is actually only criticizing hungary and is constantly criticizing hungary. it would be very good if the commission would eliminate this discrimination. until now, poor portugal was punished, now poor hungary is criticized by almunia. why not criticize the big member states? we call on the president of parliament to take action towards the commission on equal treatment and non-discrimination.
i fully agree with the speakers before me that while we cannot yet speak of a global pandemic, the threat must be taken seriously. but so is the danger of hysteria over a virus that doesn't yet exist. in hungary, experts estimate that poultry consumption has fallen by almost 40%, which could threaten the sector's bankruptcy. this is despite the fact that hungarian scientists have produced and successfully tested the vaccine against the h5n1 virus that exists today. in order to avoid hysteria and panic, the most important things we need to do are to put in place effective prevention measures at member state level, to plan comprehensively and carefully, and to act decisively, thoughtfully and in a coordinated manner in the event of an outbreak. the european union must, in its responsibility to its citizens, commit itself to a high degree of solidarity. the harmonisation of vaccine production capacities and the standardisation of vaccine distribution principles would allow citizens of countries that do not have vaccine production capacity to have equal access to vaccines. i'd like to remind you that of the 10 new member states, only hungary has a vaccine factory. it is therefore important that all assistance should go to the first place where the outbreak occurs - even if it is outside the union - rather than to short-sighted national priorities. in my country, we have a saying, "you know your friends in trouble". i hope we can avoid trouble, but if not, i hope that the "friendship and cooperation of nations" enshrined in the union's founding treaty will stand the test of time. i would like to thank both rapporteurs for putting this important issue on the agenda, which is not just a matter for european citizens.
'better with you in the world!' - this is the slogan of a major european mobile operator in hungary, but has the world really become better in 2004 during the period covered by the report, and will it be better in the future as a result of the development of electronic communications? the information and communication sector is a major driver of growth and job creation in europe. it is also clear that the spread of new technologies - of which mobile broadband is the most prominent - is conducive to integrating into the information society groups of society that are not reachable by traditional means. so these are obvious advantages. but the question is, at what cost? the answer is not nearly as favorable as the effects mentioned above. difficult to understand pricing models, strange pricing structures, practices that go beyond the principle of the single market - just think of roaming charges. so today, that's the price of all these benefits, of a better world. i am not saying that it is an unaffordable price, because we are paying it month after month, all of us european consumers. but changing the current situation is one of the most important objectives of this parliament, and one of our duties in the interests of consumer protection. above all, transparency is needed, with clear and unambiguous information for consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. and last but not least, lower prices that are actually commensurate with the value of the services. only if these objectives are met is there any chance of putting consumer protection in the right context, and if so, then it made sense to produce this report.
the rapporteur. we will discuss two topics, starting with the minimum vat rate. we are discussing a very sensitive legal and political issue. the commission has proposed that the existing interim regime which expires on 31 december 2005 should be extended on the basis of the sixth vat directive. in other words, we would only set a minimum standard rate at the current level of 15% and this regime would also be temporarily extended until 2010. the committee on economic and financial affairs of this parliament has discussed this proposal and broadly agrees with the commission's approach. we therefore agree with the proposal itself, with its timeframe, i.e. an extension until 2010. we also agreed to discuss this very quickly, before the last ecofin meeting on 6 december, so that the council can have the opinion of parliament in time to take a decision in the light of it. on the basis of the debate in the committee, we are making a substantial amendment to the original commission proposal on one point, namely that we want to set not only a minimum standard rate but also a maximum rate of 25%, which would be the highest rate currently used by the member states, thus avoiding that anyone would be forced to change the law or change the budgetary lines in a very short time. but this is a sign from our majority in parliament that we believe that we must prevent the divergence of the normal rates. however, our parliament has adopted another important position on this issue, which is not relevant to the current decision to extend the deadline, but which is important to us. we want to avoid a situation like the present one, where we are pressed for time, both in terms of extending the normal vat rate and in terms of the intensive employment regime which expires at the end of the year, in which several member states have participated and have gained positive experience. we therefore ask the commission to prepare a study by the beginning of 2007 to enable parliament to start a debate in 2007-08 on the direction and depth of vat policy to be pursued by the member states and the need for eu legislation. in our proposal for a call drawn up by all the political groups, we ask the commission to assess the differences in the current standard implicit , i.e. keyed , vat rates and the budgetary implications of this, in particular in view of the discrimination which we see in the case of member states which joined in the last enlargement, which cannot benefit from the application of the individual reduced rate, and only have a transition period until 2007 for the specific areas for which vat directive 6 does not provide (i.e. it is not covered by either annex k or annex h). the commission's document will enable us to define our position in parliament on the calculation of vat on origin or consumption, and then to examine whether there is a need for a community minimum and maximum rate for subsidiarity purposes, and if so, whether the standard rate or the implicit rate, i.e. the real conversion rate, should be used for these rates. the debate in parliament in the coming years may also be about the extent to which member states are given the freedom to reduce rates, in the light of the effectiveness of the stability and growth pact, and whether standard rates or specific derogations from them distort the market more, if at all. this also raises the question of whether the emphasis on excise duties at the expense of direct taxes, especially those on labour, can really help member states to achieve the lisbon employment targets. so that's what this next debate is about, and we need to give it time. i am convinced that a good background study by the commission can help parliament in this matter and we can adopt a mature position before 2010, but now we are still proposing the extension, with the amendment that we must also fix the maximum rate at 25%. my other report is on vat refunds. the 8th amendment to the directive before us is part of a very important package of three amendments which were tabled by the commission back in october 2004 and which the current commission has - very rightly - extended, and which is particularly famous for the one-stop-shop system. in this respect, as in the case of tax cooperation between member states, parliament has already expressed its views on two reports and i am pleased that we now have the opportunity, even if ex post facto, to express our views on directive 8 on the refund system, at the request of the council. first of all, i would like to say that we fully agree with the commission's approach to the overall package, including the amendment of directive 8, as it helps businesses to collect vat returns in another member state and even speeds up the collection of vat returns by electronic means. until now, vat could only be collected if a person was registered as a vat resident in another member state. many did not undertake the lengthy and costly procedure and in most cases did not even claim back the vat exemption because the administrative procedure would have cost more than the value of the vat exemption itself. the current amendment will improve the situation of smes in particular, since they have had the greatest difficulty in keeping the refund apparatus profitable. the commission's approach of having to assess this claim to the competent tax authority within three months is also friendly to small enterprises. we also support the approach that after the deadline you have to pay a very heavy monthly one-month late payment interest to the competent tax authority. we did not accept the amendment which would have made this subject to regulation by the member states. our amendments were also inspired by the commission's spirit, since we stressed that, in addition to protecting businesses, the tasks of the tax authorities of the member states should be clarified by means of clarifications, with precise deadlines for transmission, consideration, decision and repayment. that's what our amendments contain. we also specifically pointed out that the three-month examination period cannot be resumed in the event of a reconsideration, supplementary information or other problems, as we read from the commission proposal, since we believe that the whole procedure could take up to four months. our proposal aims to avoid unnecessary delays in the repayment period and the storage of funds in the treasury. although it could not be included in this opinion as a formal amendment proposal from a legal point of view, i hope that as part of the package, as part of the overall o.s.s. package, cooperation between the authorities will increase, as this will avoid the liquidity problems of small businesses, the problems of entitlement to vat refunds and the fixing of rates, and even the abuses themselves, because the falsification, the creation of fictitious companies is very often linked to export vat refunds. i hope that in the course of the council debate the time limit which puts the deadline for electronic data transmission for the tax authorities of the place of establishment between 10 and 40 days may even be shortened to 40 days. but the most important thing is to implement the package as soon as possible and we hope that in a few years (we asked for 4 years for the oss) we will be able to assess the implementation on the basis of the commission's report. i am convinced that the process (and the screening of abuses) could be speeded up in the future by the use of some common database or by easier access to each other's databases , but this will also require a lot of legal, data protection and other issues to be resolved, so it is worth returning to this after the first evaluation. the most important thing now is that this goodwill proposal be implemented as soon as possible and that our entrepreneurs can enjoy its benefits.
our modern life is surrounded by batteries, batteries. our growing use of energy, and indeed renewable energy, and our need for mobility, means that we are using more and more of them. the problem is not that, but that these often complex materials, these technologies often contain toxic substances that are not collected or disposed of after use. with our current waste technology, these materials are burned or dumped, eventually entering our bodies, where they accumulate and cause serious diseases. many countries, including my own, have only recently started to collect these materials, so the collection targets proposed by the commission and the council seem realistic. the question is whether distributors are also subject to the obligation to collect or only manufacturers. in our country, the latter system works very well with other recyclable materials, but this may also be a matter of different waste cultures in different member states. but it's not enough to just collect them, you have to use them, which requires a lot of technology and a lot of research and development. at present, the practice of some member states in this area is highly questionable. to date, no battery processing plants have been established in hungary, so they are disposed of in slovenia and italy, while hungary purchases large quantities of lead for its battery and battery factories. i think that is not sustainable either, and each member state must take care of not only the collection but also the disposal. and our job is to encourage technological advancement and to help replace hazardous materials.
in some member states, such as hungary, the collection of used batteries and accumulators is a new activity but also a long-term environmental investment. it is very important for the feasibility of the legislation that the recovery targets remain realistic both in terms of time and quantity. overly ambitious estimates (e.g. 50% to 60%) would lead to unrealistic standards. switzerland, with its consumer culture, has reached 60% in 12 years. in our country, where carbon zinc cells still account for 40-50% of the market due to weak consumer purchasing power, distributors would not be able to anticipate and consumers would not be able to afford the costs of forced recall at too high a level. this would not only lead to the disappearance of businesses and jobs, but also encourage the already large-scale black market imports of batteries, which are increasingly dangerous to our environment. in this way, an unenforceable law would have the opposite effect of the objective pursued. we need rules that can ensure that environmental objectives are met in the long term and that jobs in the industrial and distribution sectors concerned are preserved over five to ten years, even with the possibility of a review within five years.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate our performer on his excellent work. it's not every day that we have to work out 50 compromises with the council and five different political groups. in the light of these forward-looking and very positive results, i would like to point out that this project is only the first step in improving energy efficiency. this should also be borne in mind when it comes to financing the implementation. there are 800,000 panel dwellings in hungary, in which heating accounts for 54% of household operating costs. upgrading these apartments one by one will be essential to modernise energy efficiency. this costs more than 40,000 euros per apartment, with a payback period of 25 years. given the low financing capacity of the population and the municipalities, the hungarian state embarked on a large-scale, long-term renovation of the panels. the key to this is to prevent consumers from having to pay the cost of modernisation, which the public pays for by saving energy. we spent 15 million euros on this in 2004, 32 million in 2005. it will be very important for us to bear in mind, when drafting the eu budget for 2007-13, that more than half a million mostly modest households in hungary alone will need eu financial support to achieve the important energy efficiency targets set out in the draft now under discussion. i thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the pse group. the key message of the european parliament, on the commission's proposal, is to combat all forms of discrimination, and i am particularly pleased to congratulate mr martin roure on this report. i would like to emphasise that equal opportunities - the eu's first human right - is a horizontal area that crosses all sectors. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of equal opportunities offices in the member states. i particularly welcome the fact that president borrell has set up the high level committee on equal opportunities, which i can also serve as a member of. i would like to draw attention to an important recent commission paper on the benefits of diversity in recruitment and employment in a workplace. workplaces that pursue such policies, companies that take account of different cultures, enjoy long-term competitive advantages and, in some cases, even short- or medium-term efficiency gains. equal opportunities are therefore not the opposite of increasing economic competitiveness, but rather enhance it. i would also like to stress the personal responsibility of the member states in preparing for the year of equal opportunities, and i intend to take a number of initiatives myself in this context. next week, my organisation will hold the first public hearing in the hungarian parliament, where citizens will present their personal experiences of discrimination through their personal life stories. a blind girl who couldn't get into college because she's blind, and a young roma man will tell her story. i want to make this a tradition in hungary and bring the personal interviews that we have experienced here back home on a regular basis.
the year 2007 is very important, as we are talking about the tasks to be solved in the field of equal opportunities, about the implementation of equal opportunities throughout the eu. equality of opportunity is the basis of the common european value system and its creation contributes to the promotion of fundamental human rights. this report, which is drawn up under a codecision procedure, covers all areas of implementation, from the establishment of the legal environment to the definition of the financial instruments, including the possibility of participation by the member states and ngos. my colleague martin roure has done a great job. the most important thing is to apply the rules already approved and accepted and to make sure that those concerned know the laws that have been created in their interest. this requires action, not words. equal opportunities should not only be achieved at community level, but also the awareness that every citizen, regardless of gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation, has the right to equal opportunities and equal treatment. continuous information, training and cooperation with civil society organisations and european citizens are important. we need public engagement, we need a lively social dialogue. a social europe is unthinkable without the protection of the most vulnerable and discriminated against. discrimination, exclusion, has a hundred faces: it comes in the form of race, ethnicity, religion, age, sexual differences, physical and mental disability. everyone has a role to play in the application of equal opportunities, from government bodies to national authorities, from civil society to individual european citizens. solidarity is the most appropriate and meaningful approach to the fight for equal opportunities. it is the responsibility of all of us to ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to pursue their goals in any area of life. in my amendments, i have emphasised, among other things, that we should do our utmost to achieve equality at the regional, national and local levels, as well as at the community and individual levels. i recommend that the report be adopted.
there are four aspects to consider when debating the draft legislation before us. first, the enforcement of human rights must not suffer. the security of personal data must be guaranteed in all circumstances. secondly, we must not leave law enforcement agencies in europe without a means of dealing with crime using new technologies. thirdly, in the interests of competitiveness, we must not impose disproportionate and unjustified burdens on the service sector. finally, for the fourth time, it is only in those areas where the member states are not more effective that it is worthwhile to resort to the instrument of regulation at european level. so, in a nutshell, human rights, effective law enforcement, competitiveness and subsidiarity. goals that i'm sure we can all relate to. but our order of preference can differ, and it can differ even within the political groups, as today's debate demonstrates more clearly than the sun. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a personal observation. as a young hungarian mp, i only have youthful memories of the socialist dictatorship, but i still remember my parents' repeated warning: "this is not a phone issue!" - they said when i started talking politics on the phone. it was natural for the dictatorship to tap the phones. i am sure that my colleagues in the east-central european parliament will be familiar with this. i don't deny, surely, that this memory is what drives me to put the protection of personal data first in my agenda. i therefore consider only a compromise acceptable in which the four above considerations are equally valid. a compromise that, while leaving room for manoeuvre to member states in order to enforce the law more effectively, does not make any concessions on human rights. in conclusion, i would like to say that the legislation we have in place cannot be left untouched because of the sensitivity of the matter. i am convinced that the directive should be periodically reviewed, in particular in view of the range of data requested by the authorities.
thank you, commissioner. i am more or less satisfied with your answer, but i should like you to be more specific. how does the commission plan to discourage individual car driving and in the meantime encourage the environmentally friendly means of transport: cycling, public transport and rail? as you mentioned cohesion funds, i will ask what may appear to be a simplistic question. could you say approximately how much money we spend on the development of public transport infrastructure in our cities? i think people are interested in hearing how much money will be spent and not just our ideas.
i am one of those who are very pleased with the report by mrs kristensen, because this report - which i have recommended to be translated and sent to all the members of the national parliaments in the new member states - shows that there is a great deal of help that can be given to the new member states without money. this report can be a guide to what to do in the new member states. however, i of course agree with commissioner kyprianou that we do not have enough resources and i strongly believe that the most important thing we need to do is to put consumer protection issues on the agenda in the form of compulsory education from a very young age (i say this as a mother of three children). i therefore congratulate mr kristensen and ask the commissioner to address the issue of consumer protection as part of the completion of the internal market in the new member states, since the internal market cannot function in a balanced way if consumers in the scandinavian countries and in the eastern european countries cannot enjoy their rights in the same way.
six months ago, i stressed that the union's necessary changes must begin with the elimination of longstanding unfair discrimination against the new member states. we had to be disappointed. at the end of this year, we have not only failed to move forward on the path that will bring europe out of the crisis, but we have actually started backwards, in the wrong direction. herr schultz, the iceberg is not in front of us, it's behind us. we've already successfully escaped once. the problem is we're sneaking around. the result, of course, is a sure-fire shipwreck. it must be said that the budget proposal is not suited to lay the foundations for the great historic undertaking of european reunification. it is not reducing but increasing the crisis in europe, it is not uniting but dividing the countries of the union. it's not helping, it's humiliating the new member states. it is not making europe more competitive, it is holding it back. this proposal is a budget for restraint and sharing. the new members of the union accepted the transitional disadvantages and discrimination in copenhagen a few years ago in the hope that they would be able to participate fully and without discrimination in the seven-year financial plan. but now we see that the old members are trying to solve their long-standing problems at the expense of the new members. this is unacceptable, this is humiliating, this is unacceptable. this is unworthy of europe. what is needed is a change in the attitude of governments. follow the european parliament! we agreed on a budget in the spring, despite our differences. we are more than 700, the governments are only 25.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on their work. i do this because, as a hungarian member of parliament, i have been following the efforts of both countries and the evaluations of parliament and the commission day by day since i entered parliament. with a few adjustments, i can say with confidence that both reports are balanced and reflect the current situation in both countries. i do not wish to repeat the claims made by those who have spoken before me, nor the criticisms made by the council and the commission, because, as i said in the debate following the commission's country report in october, the observers from the two countries are here to be able to inform their own decision-makers firsthand both of the shortcomings and of the desirable decisions proposed by parliament. in the debate which took place in the morning in preparation for the summit this weekend, it was clear that all the political groups in parliament had stressed the importance of solidarity throughout the european union, because that is the only way to maintain our competitiveness. as the two rapporteurs have mentioned, the importance of solidarity needs to be further emphasised in the case of the two countries under discussion. as a hungarian, i cannot help but feel the situation of hungarians living in romania. i expect the romanian government to vote on the minority law as promised in the coalition agreement as soon as possible. i know that this is familiar to those in the room, but i would like to emphasize the importance of cultural autonomy, which is the basis of the above-mentioned law. this law is the one whose adoption and observance can ensure the harmonious coexistence of the minority and the majority living in romania in the long term.
despite all the accusations made in the romanian press and at numerous press conferences, i am not against romania's accession, nor am i speaking out against romanian interests. but with deep respect for the romanian people, i know that accession must be a success for every romanian citizen. it's the only way to keep up with the vital modernization. and the union today represents a chance, perhaps the last chance for the people of romania. but i think that the hungarian community in romania should also be given this chance, because they have received a lot from the window policy so far, but they see that very few of the essential issues have been resolved. let me give you an example. when the parliament's foreign affairs committee votes to regulate the status of this community on the basis of european principles such as the principle of self-government and subsidiarity, the romanian prime minister asks the liberal group in brussels to remove the principle of self-government from the text and to replace it with the term cultural autonomy. meanwhile, in bucharest on monday, the two major parties in the ruling coalition - the liberal and the democratic - agreed in the background that the minority bill would remove the essence of cultural autonomy, depriving the minority community of all forms of self-government. i would take the essence of the minority bill, which is on rather weak footing, and leave it without a chance for debate. this is further evidence of the romanian display policy. they say one thing to europe, but they do something else at home. is not the same display policy in other areas? the roma, the environment, the restitution of property, the corruption? i ask you to support us in upholding our european principles, our april decision and not to amend article 26 of the moscovici report. the report is as good as we voted for it, and i have to give mr moscovici credit for that. if we do not hold these principles to account, no one else will.
i would like to draw your attention within the framework of the moscovici report on the importance of safeguarding the rights of the hungarian minority, the largest minority in romania. more specifically, i would like to draw your attention on paragraph 26 of the report. i understand that attempts have been made in order to erase from this paragraph the references to the principles of subsidiarity and self governance. my opinion is that these principles are fundamental principles of the european union and therefore should not be erased. many promises were made by the romanian political leadership for the safeguard of the rights of the hungarian minority. it is about time now that romania shows real political will to concretely implement these promises. the question is: if there is no problem with hungarian minority's rigths why would the romanian leadership want to erarse parts of paragraph 26? i strongly believe that it is the political responsibility of the european parliament to ensure that all aspects including minorities' protection are appropriately dealt with while addressing romania's readiness to access the european union. in my opinion, minority issues are indeed at least as important as economic issues.
