mr president, i wish to raise a matter that may only be of minor interest in the overall context of the problems in the world today, but is nonetheless very important to those affected. i wish to emphasise the impact that the council's political agreement of 22-23 november on the protection of animals during transport will have on the transport of registered equidae for competition or breeding purposes. while i broadly welcome the general provisions of the regulation, i regret that the council did not apply scientific best practice in the details of the requirements laid down for the transport of this particular class of equidae. the regulation as it stands contains a number of inconsistencies and dangerous prescriptions, which need to be changed if it is to be enforceable and meet its objective of protecting rather than endangering these horses. for example, floors and bedding should ensure adequate control of urine and faeces, not necessarily absorption. non-slip rubber matting is the hygienic flooring of choice today. the provision of free access to water is inappropriate, impractical and potentially dangerous for these horses. space allowances should be proportionate to the size and temperament of the particular horse being transported and not set down in a table of rigid, unintelligible, unenforceable dimensions. the maximum short-journey limit is not consistent throughout the text and in any case is far too short. given that the regulation will not return to parliament for a second reading, i urge the council to review its agreement and to iron out these irregularities before publication of the regulation in the official journal.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i welcome the fact that the kyoto protocol will enter into force on 16 february, with 132 countries having ratified the provisions of the agreement. the recent ratification of kyoto by the russian government means that it will now have legal standing. under this agreement, the european union is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8%, as compared to 1990 levels, by the year 2012. i welcome the enactment of the eu emissions trading directive that will help to ensure that the european union complies with the serious international obligations under the kyoto accord. the one disappointing fact is that some countries, including australia and america, have not signed up to the provisions of this agreement. america is responsible, as we all know, for over 24% of all greenhouse gas emissions on an annual basis. the effectiveness of kyoto is diluted because america is not a signatory to the accord. however, it is not a complete tale of doom and gloom from america on this political issue. california – the largest state in america in population terms – has already enacted the pavley tax, which is designed to reduce the use of greenhouse gases by 22% in that state by 2012. i am glad to see that it is being followed by other states. at present 19 american states are pursuing this initiative designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is clear that more and more american businesses and citizens are becoming positively disposed to tackling climate change. the european union must use every diplomatic avenue open to it to coax and persuade the american government to introduce measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this can and should be done through the structures of transatlantic summits between america and the european union. we need a coordinated international approach to tackle climate change. the kyoto protocol is the only current international framework available within which the countries that have ratified it can coordinate their approach to this issue. the british government will assume the presidency of the european union later this year and, as a very firm ally of the present american administration, i would hope that it will be in a very strong diplomatic position to coax the american government to move forward on this matter in a more constructive way.
mr president, the use of the word 'success' in this context depends on one's expectations; it means different things to different people. to me, if we exclude the interactions and discussions that took place in the margins in buenos aires, it is difficult to use the word 'success'. the success i found in buenos aires was in discussing with other colleagues – particularly the huge numbers of representatives from political and corporate america and other american bodies – how much support we have on the ground, both in the united states and in australia, as distinct from the bush administration's position and, indeed, the australian premier's position on the kyoto protocol and climate change. that is the sense of success i brought back from buenos aires. there is huge and growing support from nine or ten different states in america, and even from some of the energy and fuel corporations and corporate america generally. that support continues to grow. i also measure success by the progress made by china and in the attitude of the chinese authorities – china being a developing state with huge demographic challenges. there is also the change in attitude of brazil which is coming the road with us. that is how i measure the real success of buenos aires, as an indicator of the progress that has been made since previous cops i attended. to confuse us even further, this was cop 10, and next year we have cop 11. we have the special meeting to continue discussions; we are not allowed to call it post-kyoto or post-2012, but we cannot ignore that it is going to be out there in the realm of debate. also next year, we have mop 1, to further confuse the uninitiated! i think that means the meeting of the parties who ratified kyoto, as distinct from the conference of the parties who all signed the original agreement. they are two different, if similar, groups of meetings that, presumably, will go hand in hand. maybe the commissioner will tell us more about it. i would like to thank mr florenz for his leadership of the parliamentary delegation. and thank you, commissioner, for including the parliament's members. i would still like to see greater structure around parliament's involvement in various cops, particularly at the mop 1 stage. i hope you found our contribution rewarding and of some use. i would love to see it structured even more, although i know there is some reticence at council level about that. but it is a suggestion that urgently needs to be taken seriously at that level. we cannot afford not to succeed. the kyoto protocol is the only game in town. an even greater emphasis on cost-benefit reports and transparent pricing of the environmental consequences of climate change and global warming will help to convince those markets still doubting the economic significance of kyoto. it will show that any short-term inconveniences and costs will be more than compensated for by the medium- to long-term gain for the developed as well as the developing countries.
(the speaker spoke in irish) i want to take this opportunity to welcome the buenos aires conference on climate change as a serious endeavour in tackling global warming. the united nations framework convention on climate change remains the cornerstone of the international response to environmental changes. i speak in support of the resolution and wish to commend the role that the european union has played and continues to play in bringing progressive responses to combating climate change. i would like specifically to express my concern that the united states – the world's largest carbon dioxide emitter – was not prepared to discuss further approaches to reducing climate change, although it is heartening to note that a number of individual states in the us have been involved in various climate change initiatives. however, the failure of the us to sign up to kyoto is actively undermining that agreement. the kyoto agreement is one to which we must collectively add our full support. it is a small yet significant step in the right direction. however, in the longer term, if we are to successfully wrestle with the issue of climate change then a much greater effort is required by individual countries, and indeed by industry. the targets set for stabilising concentrations of greenhouse gases are hardly ambitious, but are of fundamental importance to bringing about a marked decrease in the levels of emissions in our atmosphere. i welcome the resolution's assertion that global emissions should be reduced by half by 2050 in order to contain global warming. this is an objective we should all be working towards. climate change remains a crucial issue facing humanity which requires a global response, perhaps nowhere more so than in europe. a recent report by the european environment agency warned that europe is warming more quickly than the rest of the world, with potentially devastating consequences including more frequent heat waves, flooding, rising sea levels and melting glaciers. the report paints a bleak picture of a europe devastated by changing climate. we need a global plan to cap concentrations of critical greenhouse gases. setting more ambitious targets to cap the concentration of greenhouse gases requires a real commitment and will require major changes to manufacturing processes, to the manner in which energy is generated and indeed to our collective lifestyle. (the speaker continued in irish)
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i also wish to thank the rapporteurs for undertaking the very difficult task of trying to find some areas of agreement on the treaty in the very diverse institution and august body that this parliament is. however, in one sense the debate has moved on, because it is now up to the member states and the debate on the treaty-ratification process that takes place in the member states. it is up to the people to determine what the level of debate and discussion and the final verdict on this constitutional treaty will be. many times when we speak about the issues involved, in spite of our best efforts, some of us would like to see new things added to what has already been agreed. therefore, we are fighting the next argument rather than dealing with the current debate. in addition, when you listen to some of the debate, it is like going back to the future, because the same issues and points that were raised in opposition to the first treaties in the 1950s, and to the second and subsequent treaties in the 1970s and 1980s, are being rehashed. people are saying that this is the prophet of doom and gloom about to come and join us and take our power away. let us be realistic about what is in this treaty and what is good and bad about it. as a basis for the basic law of what the european union will be in the future, it is a very good document. it ensures there will be proper respect and trust for the member states and for their roles within it, in particular for the smaller member states; it clearly sets down in the doctrine of conferral who has the power to do what and where the lines of demarcation are drawn. when the people who oppose this treaty and have opposed other treaties say that this will override national law, this issue has already been decided. back in the 1960s in the european court of justice, the primacy of european law over national law was brought into being. however, the treaty clearly defines that and narrows down that role, namely that it only operates for european law. the european institutions and european lawmakers have been given the power by the member states to make that law. so let us have a real and honest debate. let us move away from the lies, the fear and scaremongering that takes place. some people will be justified in opposing this treaty because of their political beliefs, ideologies or their genuine concerns about what it means for those member states. but let us ensure that the debate is based on fact, truth and the written text and not on misconceptions. (applause)
in writing. i am delighted to support this report and welcome the proposed extension of the peace programme to cover this year and 2006. this decision will allow the peace measures, designed to support reconciliation, to be carried on for another few years. the continuation of these peace initiatives is invaluable in rebuilding trust between communities and bringing communities together from both sides of the border. peace focuses specifically on reconciliation and the projects it has funded have contributed greatly to promoting mutual understanding and better community relations. i am delighted that funding has now been extended to the end of 2006 and sincerely hope that further provision will be made in the financial perspectives when they are finally established and come into effect in 2007. there is no doubt that our hopes for a peaceful future depend on the good work of the various cross-border and north-south initiatives funded under this programme.
in writing. i welcome this report, which formally gives the backing of the european parliament to continued eu funding for the european peace fund until the year 2006. in 2005 and 2006, eur 108 million are being allocated to this fund which is supporting projects in the border county region and northern ireland. one third of this fund, eur 36 million, will be spent in the border county region, the remaining eur 72 million being spent in northern ireland. the european peace fund 2000-2004 supported 4 000 projects in northern ireland and the border county region alone. the european union also gives eur 15 million a year towards the international fund for ireland and has supported consecutive interreg programmes dating back to the late 1980s. in the overall context of the peace process in ireland, the european union has been at the forefront in providing political and financial support – and it is clear that it will continue to play an active and central role in this regard.
mr president, ireland held two referenda on the nice treaty: in the first we voted 'no' and in the second we voted 'yes'. there were many reasons for this, but an overriding one was that our government took its citizens for granted. the irish had always voted 'yes' to europe, so this time they thought it would be the same. however, on this occasion, the politicians got it wrong. we have to learn from our mistakes and ensure that, this time, citizens have easy access to all the information they require. i would go so far as to suggest that every household should receive a copy of the draft treaty – certainly every household that requests one. this will be expensive, but it is well worth paying that price. furthermore, i would very strongly support a suggestion to publish a document outlining, on the one hand, what is already in place in the existing treaties and, on the other, outlining what is new, changed or different. unlike the assertions from some speakers in this house today, this is not telling people what to do or how to think; it is giving our citizens a choice. if you were sitting a public examination in ireland, you might be asked to compare and contrast. this is what we need to do: to assess if what we now have is an improvement or otherwise. in spite of the scathing references of many eurosceptics, i do not claim this draft constitution to be the holy grail or the second coming, but it is a positive step forward for europe and one that i will support. i have many reasons for saying this, but time allows me to mention just one today. this treaty brings the eu closer to its citizens. for example, a million citizens' signatures can prompt the commission to draft a proposal. that is people power! just imagine the possibilities: citizens from latvia, spain, ireland or sweden, for example, finding common cause and demanding action. surely, that is the possibility of a citizens' europe!
mr president, i am from a country with a constitution that enshrines the truth about fundamental human rights: the truth that they are part of human nature and essential to human dignity; the truth that a supreme being, not a mere human institution, gave these rights to us – all of us without exception. in ireland we have had governments which have neglected or even denied our rights, but under the shelter of our constitution, even the most vulnerable of us can demand them. the eu constitution expounds the false position that the eu creates all rights, even fundamental rights. here, the eu is not the guardian of rights, but the giver. i would not dream of supporting this constitution. it has not grasped the simple and important truth of fundamental human rights. history tells us that when human institutions become the giver of rights, rights become gifts. they can be bestowed selectively, denied, or even take back. i will support the truth that the fundamental rights of the human person are from god. i will defend the irish constitution against usurpation.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on this report, which adds clarity and weight to the debate. i was one of the 200 parliamentarians who participated in the convention and produced the convention text, which the igc subsequently took on board to a very large degree. i doubt whether any member state constitution has ever been prepared in such an open and democratic way. i doubt that there is a constitution in any of the member states which achieved the kind of consensus that the convention achieved. of the 200 parliamentarians participating in that convention, only eight signed an alternative text, basically arguing for the disintegration of europe. we have heard that case being put here this morning, with mr allister of northern ireland arguing for a reversion to 19th century absolute sovereignty. if sinn féin had participated in the debate this morning they would – although they are the direct political opposites in northern ireland – have been making exactly the same case. perhaps it is a kind of progress that they agree on 19th century absolute sovereignty, although it is unfortunate that they continue to fall out over the outcome of the battle of the boyne in 1690! the fact is that this is a world in which the response to natural disasters and to man-made problems clearly requires transnational governance. uniquely in the world, europe is developing a democratic form of transnational governance. this constitution will give us more democracy, more rights and more potential for a prosperous society in europe, and indeed for solidarity with the rest of the world. to conclude, those outcomes will not happen of their own accord. we have to work for them, using this constitution as the basis for our work.
commission. the commission wishes to stress that removing internal market barriers is not tantamount to undermining the quality of services, or that the services directive will lead to social dumping – quite the contrary. as regards the protection of workers, the proposed directive does not affect the existing community acquis, namely the posted workers’ directive from 1996. this directive provides that posted workers, including temporary workers, enjoy, irrespective of the law applicable to the employment relationship, a number of important protective provisions concerning working conditions in force in the member state where the worker is posted. therefore, companies cannot use this proposal in order to establish themselves in low-wage countries to circumvent the social protection of the host member state. in addition, the proposed directive reinforces the control of posted workers because it establishes a system of cooperation between member states and obliges the country of origin of the service provider to assist the authorities of the host member state in the supervision of working conditions. the proposed directive will thus help to prevent social dumping. the commission does not share the concern that the directive will lead to a 'race to the bottom' in service provision. first, the country of origin principle only applies to the temporary cross-border provision of services. for services provided via an establishment in another member state – for example a hospital or a home for the elderly – the service provider will have to comply with all the relevant rules in that member state. second, the country of origin principle is embedded in harmonisation and enhanced administrative cooperation between member states. moreover, a number of derogations from the country of origin principle cover, for instance, the applicable working conditions in the context of posting of workers, consumer contracts, health and safety on building sites and public health. finally, the commission wishes to stress that the proposed directive does not require the liberalisation or privatisation of services which are currently provided at national, regional or local level by the public sector or public entities. neither does the proposal affect the freedom of the member states to define what they consider to be services of general economic interest and how they should be organised or financed. furthermore, it does not affect member states' ability to maintain appropriate regulations concerning the quality, availability and performance of services of general interest, or other regulations ensuring consumer and user rights. it is also important to note that the proposal does not prejudge the work on, or the outcome of, specific community initiatives, in particular the follow-up to the white paper on services of general interest. the commission has committed to a genuine dialogue with both co-legislators and interested parties with a view to finding solutions to specific areas of concern. to date, the need for a major step forward in opening the internal market has not yet been validly contested. i am confident that also the honourable member would like to see companies, consumers and workers enjoy the benefits of an open and competitive integrated services market. we are all aware of the economic and social challenges facing the european union. bearing in mind the importance of the services sector, the proposed directive will contribute significantly to addressing these challenges.
firstly i would like to welcome the commissioner to his first question time in parliament. i look forward to more. i am a little bewildered by the commissioner's reply. his reply indicates that this directive will do nothing, that it is not going to affect any of the areas about which we have expressed concern. he says it will only apply to temporary cross-border provision of services. in what way, then, will this directive lead to a competitive integrated services market? if it is simply to provide for the provision of temporary cross-border provisions, how does it lead to a competitive integrated services market?
i also wish to welcome commissioner mccreevy to his first question time in parliament and to re-emphasise at the outset that i am fully in favour of the lisbon strategy and objectives because they can create greater wealth and employment within the european union. however, turning to his reply, one of the biggest hindrances to cross-border trade and protection of the country of origin principle is the idea of a one-stop shop for registration of a company, that is if one member state approves a company to provide that service in that member state, it should be reciprocal in all other member states, because the same basis for decision-making under the internal market rules should apply.
i also welcome the commissioner to his first question time in this house. i should like to ask him, in relation to competitiveness and economic capacity – aspects of the lisbon agenda – if he would confirm that he shares my view that structural labour problems need to be addressed, especially when europe is compared to the united states? in this regard, would the commissioner agree that access by women to the workplace – which is greatly restricted in the eu compared to the situation in the us, in part because of the lack of affordable childcare facilities – needs to be addressed? will the commission address this issue?
in writing. i fully support this report and eventually support adoption of the draft constitution. the constitution was drafted in a uniquely democratic process and putting in place a constitution for europe by way of a binding treaty between sovereign states is the most important european decision citizens will make. four european treaties in less than 15 years have resulted in many undoubted european successes: the single market, the euro, the accession of eastern european countries, rising environmental standards, greater equality between women and men, and anti-poverty and full employment strategies, to name but a few. but it had become increasingly obvious, particularly since the nice european summit in 2000, that the old intergovernmental method of revising european treaties did not enable adequate european responses to the common challenges facing us to emerge, nor did it enable citizens to feel that the process belonged to them. europe’s institutional framework still needed to be overhauled, decision-making had to be made more democratic and brought closer to the citizens and europe had to meet its responsibilities to the rest of the world, especially the developing world if the project is to help in bringing the globalisation process under democratic control.
mr president, the gentleman, his colleagues and his staff should be cleaning up the 'no to europe' literature and mess that is strewn around the grounds of this parliament. it is spread all over the place! perhaps he could clean up the litter.
mr president, i first wish to join with others in offering my sympathy to the people of south-east asia who have been so badly affected by this awful tragedy. we are still seeing pictures and videos of what happened and it is still hard for us to comprehend the massive scale of destruction and the loss of human life. the reaction from the citizens of europe and other parts of the world has been absolutely outstanding: people have really shown their humanity to the people affected. the amount of money that has been privately donated has been extraordinary. the response of the governments around the world has also been very good. a number of things have been mentioned. one is that it is very important to use military and civil resources as soon as possible – as the united states has done – in this disaster. they can be first out there to address these awful problems. i also wish to say, as have other speakers, that, after the meeting on monday night, i am not completely convinced by president barroso's position on the resources. resources should not come from existing budgets and from money that has been promised; there have to be new resources. we have to show the people that we are serious about this and we have to ensure that what happened in areas like iran and afghanistan does not reoccur in terms of how we ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the world was shocked by the massive undersea earthquake, which took place on 26 december 2004. i believe that the inability of the european union to react to the tragedy with the same single-mindedness as the united states, which sent its secretary of state, is a clear indication of the urgent need for an eu foreign minister. i do not share the view of some colleagues. the eu's delay in responding at an appropriate level was deeply shocking and is unacceptable; senior eu leaders were not visible. however, i welcome the response, as now set out by the commission president. the current figure for loss of life is over 150 000, and it is feared that the effects of the tsunami, through diseases like cholera and malaria, will claim more victims. however, we must not take for granted the great outpouring of support from the public, who were way ahead of the politicians. we must now prepare for the time when donations turn from a flood to a trickle, once the glare of the media is turned away from asia. i would like to make two suggestions. one is that we should somehow try to legislate, or to get member states to legislate, for the 0.7% of gnp contribution, as required by our commitment to the united nations. i do not think it satisfactory, even in the motion recently adopted by this house, to express the hope that this will happen by 2015. what happened in south-east asia indicates how urgent this is, and the commission should now be trying to work for some sort of a treaty base to compel member states to meet this commitment of 0.7%. secondly, implementing a coordinated and sustained effort by donor governments gives rise for concern. some time ago, a eur 2.5 billion commitment to honduras for reconstruction after hurricane mitch was barely delivered on to the extent of one-third of that commitment: this is totally unacceptable. this house is not going to accept that once the glare of publicity leaves south-east asia, the commitments we make now will not be met.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, i believe that transatlantic relations also include relations with canada, as well as those with the united states. from listening to this debate, one would not think so. however, as chairman of the european parliament delegation to canada, i fully recognise the importance that the canadian government attaches to its relationship with the 25 member states of the european union. it is important that we continue to maintain a high level of dialogue at summit and ministerial level to address critical issues facing the european community. the new eu-canada partnership agenda was launched under the irish presidency in ottawa on 18 march 2004. it has established a coordination group to ensure the prompt and effective implementation at political level of decisions concerning all elements of the relationship between canada and the european union. this intensified dialogue will allow for a more strategic, sustained and coherent approach to all issues affecting canada and the european union in an increasingly wide range of sectors. these include: environmental issues, justice and security matters, migration and integration affairs, fisheries, education, culture, youth exchanges and transport security. we will work together to enhance the frequency and level of contact between the canadian international development agency and eu agencies responsible for development assistance in order to bring forward common approaches. global issues of maintaining peace and security are best addressed in an effective multilateral system within a european union working together with the us government, the canadian government and our partners at the united nations to combat international terrorism, tackle global poverty and promote democratic values. we know what our collective challenges are in this regard, so let us go and meet them.
this is the second time this has happened to me and the third time it has happened to my colleague mr aylward. if question time starts late, then it should continue for a certain specific amount of time. this is not happening, and it is not good enough.
mr president, with your permission and having discussed this with mrs hassi, who tabled this amendment, and indeed my colleague mrs corbey of the pse group, i would like colleagues to consider a very brief oral amendment. after 'believes that', i would like to insert 'for industrialised countries' and then continue with 'medium term reductions of the order' and so on. i would appreciate colleagues' support for that brief oral amendment, which focuses the amendment on industrialised countries per se and not the entire world.
in writing. i broadly support this resolution. however, a moratorium on debt repayments is merely a breathing space which should be used to set up an international fair and independent arbitration process that would assess what debt should be written off for the affected countries. this process should give priority to the meeting of human needs and the fulfilment of basic human rights. the current situation where creditors alone decide on how to deal with unpayable debt is clearly inappropriate and to date this has failed to resolve the decades long debt crisis. the debt of countries affected by the tsunami clearly needs an urgent response. however many other poor countries are faced with a crisis of human need that is continuous and dwarfs the scale even of the tsunami. while dealing swiftly with the debt of countries affected by the tsunami, the international community must not lessen the priority to focus on the need to cancel the unpayable debt of poor countries to enable them to progress towards meeting the millennium development goals.
in writing. i totally support this joint motion. cancellation of 80% of iraqi debt is certainly something to be welcomed. having visited iran with a delegation from this parliament i am keenly aware on the dire needs of the population there. however the willingness of the paris club to act in this case begs the question whether debt relief decisions are being made on the basis of need or that of us political imperatives? it is absolutely unacceptable in this day and age that the world continues to increase military expenditure and reduce expenditure on aid. this leaves us as far away as ever from the un target of spending 0.7% of gnp on overseas development aid, and not even in sight of achieving the un millennium development goals. lets put an end once and for all to our disgraceful record of broken promises and half-measures. lets recognise that a debt moratorium for indebted countries will not do half enough to allow them rebuild their battered communities. lets go for real debt relief, that is cancellation of their debts. that's the only way we can offer them real pain relief instead of simply deferring and dragging out their suffering!
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i would like to welcome the president of the commission and the president­in­office of the council to our chamber today. it is not often that you hear people in this chamber speak about a vision; about bringing forward an ideal that is not swallowed up in bureaucratic detail or in the rehashing of old ideas. to that extent i would like to pay tribute to president barroso for having the courage, politically as well as administratively, to come forward with what is truly a vision for where europe should be in the next five to ten years. i particularly welcome the fact that he has moved away from the old convention that the commission was above politics, because he is talking about a commission that will be more politically focused, that will respond more to the needs of the people and the citizens within the european union, and that can give leadership to those people within the european union. rather than go back over everything that has been said by my colleagues, i would like to make three very brief points. if we want to play our part on the world stage we must first get things right within our own union. we must ensure that there is a certainty of ideology, a certainty of programming and a certainty of strength within our own union before we can spread that message further abroad. secondly, ultimately the only thing that succeeds in any political forum or any political life is when people on the ground feel their lives are improving because of the decisions that are being taken. when we speak about solidarity in this room, we very rarely mention the solidarity of ensuring that there is equality of opportunity, equality of investment, equality of education and equality of training for each and every one of our citizens. in every area where there has been growth in economic terms or in terms of social development, those have been the key elements for driving that force. the last point i would like to make is this: never forget our responsibility to africa. today, millions of people are dying because of conflict, millions are dying because of starvation and millions more will die over the next number of years because of aids. we must be the global leader as regards finding solutions for the problems in africa. we must live up to our goals and our responsibilities in that sense.
mr president, as an observer of the palestinian elections, i was privileged to witness the peaceful and democratic transfer of power, which confounded most of the pundits, in relation to the change arising from the death of arafat. following those elections, urgent steps need to be taken in preparation for the legislative elections – there is a need for a strong observer team from europe for those elections. there needs to be a clean, single voters’ register, voter education and funding transparency. but, most of all, there is an urgent need for reform of the legislative process, which will guarantee proportional representation in the legislative council. that is necessary to ensure that all sections of palestinian society buy into the necessary compromises that a peace process will inevitably demand. europe and the usa must be joint partners for peace in the region. it is important that, as guarantors, they work to a common agenda. there can be no progress unless we operate on that basis. europe needs to raise its political profile in the region to a greater extent than has been done so far. finally, prime minister sharon needs to assist – not punish – president abbas, when violence occurs over which he has no control. if he allows every bomb that explodes to block the peace process he is handing the future of israel over … (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, for 16 years now the family of belfast lawyer pat finucane has campaigned for a public inquiry into the circumstances surrounding his murder. clear evidence has emerged that the police, the british army and intelligence services all colluded in his murder. former canadian supreme court judge peter cory recommended a public inquiry into the circumstances surrounding mr finucane’s murder and identified the basic requirements for a public enquiry. one of these was that the tribunal should have full power to subpoena witnesses and documents, together with all the powers usually exercised by a commissioner in a public enquiry. however, the british government has recently published a draft inquiries bill. this bill is a wholesale departure from both irish and british government agreements and the cory recommendations. it gives a british government minister the power to determine whether an inquiry sits in private and what material is withheld. these provisions attack the very independence essential to any inquiry. the british government is continuing to hide the truth of mr finucane’s murder for its own political reasons. the european parliament must make clear to the british government that in order to comply with article 2, any tribunal must as a minimum have the characteristics identified by judge cory. today i raise this matter and put the british government on notice that it cannot hide the truth from the finucane family or the european parliament for much longer.
mr president, i would appreciate it if your bench would occasionally look in this direction. i had a very important oral amendment to the resolution on auschwitz. therefore, i wish to put on record now what i was trying to propose. on the 60th anniversary of auschwitz, it is very important that we remember and honour the jewish victims and the other national victims, like the poles, russians etc., who died in auschwitz. however, one group has been completely forgotten – the group that hitler first attacked and continued to attack to the very end, in every concentration camp and in universities and hospitals throughout the reich: the disabled. in fact – not in auschwitz but in other concentration camps – the ovens were made originally to eliminate disabled people. disabled people of all nationalities were exterminated for the simple reason that they were disabled. of all the groups, none are currently in threat of their lives simply because they belong to that grouping – except the disabled. the disabled remain forgotten. in most countries with abortion, and in those countries with euthanasia, people can now be exterminated simply because they are disabled. i would like to place on record that on this day we reverently honour the jewish victims of auschwitz and the other victims, but it should be put in very bold letters that the disabled were there from beginning to end and were killed for no other reason than that they were not perfect, which is what hitler’s reich was looking for.
mr president, with a heart and a half i forgive you! i am very short but would appreciate it if you would look over here occasionally!
mr president, the recent tsunami disaster shocked the world and the huge loss of life it caused is almost inconceivable. such disasters are not specific to south-east asia. the worst european tsunami in recorded history occurred on 1 november 1755, when a powerful earthquake off portugal's atlantic coast sent waves crashing into lisbon. up to 30 000 lives were lost in the capital alone that day and the event signalled the decline of the city, which until then had been the fourth largest city in europe and one of the richest. the waves also hit the coasts of belgium, britain, france, ireland and the netherlands. twenty member states of the eu have coastlines. given that earthquakes and subsequent tsunamis have taken place in the past, would it not be prudent for the commission to set up a benchmarking process to facilitate alert strategies to warn of natural disasters of this kind?
mr president, i do not have the rule book in front of me but i simply want to add a clarification to the statement on northern ireland made by mr allister who criticised president mcaleese of the irish republic for remarks she made concerning the protestant community in northern ireland. i want to point out that president mcaleese apologised fulsomely and without reservation within hours of making the remarks. she had not intended the interpretation which has been made and i would appreciate it if this could be noted in the record of the house.
on behalf of the group.– madam president, the key challenge facing the european union at this time is an economic one. the european parliament, the european commission and the eu governments are going to have to work together closely if the objectives of the lisbon strategy are to be met. this will not be an easy task – we must not underestimate the challenges that lie ahead of us. one of the issues that must be looked at most carefully relates to the regulatory framework in europe – we need less regulation in europe, not more. this was outlined very clearly in a report in today's financial times on a study by the centre for the study of financial innovation, which stated clearly that most people involved in banking and financial services believe that we have far too much regulation and that we need to tackle it so that business can become more competitive. the key priorities for the european union at this time include: the completion of the financial services action plan so as to guarantee a greater level of competition amongst the financial institutions operating within the 25 member states of the eu, which includes ensuring that retail banking services are available to all eu citizens in the 25 member states; facilitating the merging of european banks and the updating of asset management legislation so as to guarantee that fund managers can operate asset funds on a cross-border basis; the introduction of new legislation to reduce the costs of clearing and settling trading security transactions; and the introduction of greater competition in the insurance sector. the european union must promote a greater level of dialogue with america to streamline the rules governing the operating of the accountancy industry. the european union operates under a system known as ias, which is the international accountancy standards system. meanwhile, the american business community operates under the gaap accountancy structure. this year, 8 000 companies will be listed on european stock exchanges, operating under the ias system. it is simply wrong that america and europe operate under two different accountancy models. a greater level of dialogue will have to take place to hammer out these issues. the european union must implement the new services directive. it must guarantee that the benefits of all technologies are available to communities in europe, both urban and rural. mr barroso, your recent statements on the lisbon strategy and the economic way forward for europe have been very positive, and i wish you well. i hope that you are successful – europe needs you to be successful.
mr president, i was dismayed by president barroso's contribution at the end of the debate on the presidency's programme – particularly his defence of his intervention in portuguese politics. mr barroso, you are no longer a portuguese politician: you are a european politician, selected by this parliament and by the council of all of the member states to represent europe. you cannot intervene in domestic politics as a portuguese politician; that is not acceptable. unless you understand that, you will weaken the commission. criticism of that position will not weaken the commission but your actions will. that is not unrelated to the issue that we are currently discussing in connection with the world social forum. an awful lot of people right round the world look to europe as the only transnational, democratic institution that has the capacity to try to rein in the forces that they see destroying the world. if you cannot see the role of the commission as a body that can transcend national politics and parties in a way that will give a lead to the hope expressed in the world social forum, then we are wasting our time here. i appeal to you to bear in mind that you represent europe, not portugal. to take the example of the services directive – you say that you are committed to the european social model. we take your words at face value, but we will not accept them forever. we need to have a concrete example of your commitment. the only way, in my view, in which you can demonstrate your commitment is to extract the 'country of origin' principle, which directly attacks the european social model and which directly attacks the solidarity and communautaire approach to the development of a european single market. i want a single market in services, but i will not accept the 'country of origin' principle, which will give us a lower level of social services and will undermine the faith that millions of people outside europe place in us to lead the way in creating a better world.
mr president, i wish first of all to congratulate the rapporteur and to say that i welcome this initiative, which clarifies the relationship between, on the one hand, state aid and, on the other hand, the provision by member states of compensation for the cost of services of general economic interest. services of general economic interest are essential for improving the quality of life for all citizens, and these services are often central in helping to attract investment to less-favoured areas and rural areas, thus boosting their competitiveness and leading to greater cohesion within the eu. at a national level within ireland, the post office network is under threat, particularly the smaller rural post offices that are not computerised and cannot, therefore, offer an adequate level of service to citizens. the post office network will require a public service obligation in order to remain viable, and this proposal to exempt small-scale public funding such as this from the obligation of prior notification to the commission makes absolute sense in that it allows sufficient flexibility at national and regional level without distorting the internal market. indeed, as the rapporteur and the commissioner have both said, it also cuts down on red tape.
on behalf of the group. – mr president, we have all seen the success of the internal market, where there is free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. it is clearly the case that the single european currency system is operating well. it commands the confidence both of the citizens of europe and of the business and investor communities. for the european union to succeed, there must be broad economic coordination from the 25 member states. this is an integral part of the overall strategy to implement the lisbon process, so as to guarantee that the european union becomes the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. however, eu governments are going to have to hammer out an agreement as to how the rules governing economic and monetary union are going to operate into the future. the bottom line is that some countries are running up serious budget deficits, which is clearly in breach of emu criteria. some countries want the rules governing the operation of the single currency regime to be opened up and made more flexible. i feel that this is an issue at which eu governments should look carefully so as to ensure that they can build the necessary infrastructure projects in the transport, energy and telecommunications fields. i am not taking a belligerent approach with regard to the operation of emu criteria, but we cannot allow the situation to go on for ever where countries are running up large budget deficits and are clearly in breach of so-called strict rules governing the operation of the single currency regime. that undermines the credibility of the overall emu framework. if the broader international investor community is to have maximum confidence in economic and monetary union within the eu, the eu must put its house in order. we have all seen how volatile currency markets can be. either all countries comply with the rules and have confidence in the system or we will have a credibility problem with regard to the issue for an indefinite period.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this particular issue and also to thank the commissioner in advance for his ongoing work and assistance in promoting a very important aspect of european union life: the issue of culture. today i speak as the representative of a city in ireland that is the present capital of culture: cork. having researched this enormously over the last seven years prior to submitting cork's nomination, one of the key issues we saw as being important in designating a city as a capital of culture was that it allowed for greater understanding of the diversity of the cultures and traditions which exist within the european union. after the most recent enlargement that diversity is even greater and has expanded across the whole continent. that is why i particularly welcome the decision to have two capitals of culture operating in the east and west, as it were, of the continent. one key element that is lacking with regard to the overall structure is the financial support available to cities to undertake the necessary infrastructural work required to meet the demands for capital of culture status. of course, governments and local authorities can give monies to their own cities, but there is a wider european dimension which requires extra financing at european level. my last point is relation to these capitals of culture is that when we speak about culture we do not just think in highbrow terms of classical orchestras, ballet and music, although of course these should be included, but that we also recognise the ancient cultures and traditions which exist within each of the member states.
on behalf of the group.– madam president, we live in an internal market community, comprising 25 member states and encompassing a population of over 475 million people. this creates a system where there is free movement of people from one member state to the next. it therefore makes a lot of political sense for the european union to take a lead coordinating role to promote better health within the european union. the eu is in a very strong position to see exactly which member states are exercising the best techniques to tackle diseases, such as acute respiratory infections, which is the main cause of death for children under the age of five. the eu must learn from the best practice techniques available within the european union to tackle health disorders, such as asthma, childhood allergies and neuro-development disorders. we should recall that it was the european union that took the initiative recently to ban the use of particular chemicals in the manufacture of plastic tiles. on a separate matter, the european commission has already stated that the reduction in the use of tobacco products will be a key political objective of this european commission. great strides have already been taken from an irish perspective and this is a model which could be used in other member states of the union. the bottom line is this: if we are to improve the public health of the people of europe, we must ensure that adequate budgets are put aside to deal with such problems. that is why i fully support the recommendation in this report that at least eur 300 million be put aside under the 7th research framework programme (2007-2012) to promote a higher standard of health within the european union. finally, the european parliament has extensive powers of codecision to deal with environmental and public health issues. i can assure the commission and the council presidency that we will use these powers rigorously in the future.
madam president, if we are ill, health is our most desired object. if we are well, it is hopefully one of our most valued. in ireland we have a saying that illustrates the priority we give to health. if someone fails an exam or dents his car bumper or something like that, we put the calamity in perspective by saying 'at least we have our health'. i want to congratulate mrs ries: she has not minced her words. the health of people, especially of children, is being put at risk in our countries in europe and the health action plan in its present form is not equipped truly to protect us. mrs ries has also strongly continued the important process of naming and shaming toxic chemicals and seeking their eradication. i would like to support her in this and, if anything, express the hope that we can soon add to the list more chemicals such as antimony, dioxins, and fluorosilic acid. i would like to mention that the last toxic chemical, fluorosilic acid, which is used to fluoridate water supplies in my country, has the invidious effect of making other toxic substances, such as lead, mercury and aluminium, exponentially more dangerous. it is a chemical usher that leeches these other poisons into the water and then transfers them to body tissue and bone. i am glad that mercury, which is probably the most neurotoxic pollutant of them all, comes under scrutiny in mrs ries' report. i would also extend the awareness of the dangers of mercury to include the fact that it is used as a convenient industrial preservative that needs to be replaced. i am also especially concerned that the action plan should be improved to include truly efficient and responsive health monitoring systems. another saying we have at home is 'at least no one died', but this is no longer true: people are dying.
madam president, this plan proposes to implement actions through existing initiatives and programmes to which resources have already been allocated under the operational budgets of the services concerned, in particular the public health programme and the sixth framework programme for research. forgive me for being sceptical. it is inevitable that new initiatives will be required to move the action plan forward. i would stress the importance of identifying gaps in knowledge and ensuring that any initiatives necessary to fill such gaps are well thought out and capable of delivering the required outcomes. these must be based on eu risk evaluation procedures and the opinions of relevant scientific committees, which also allow for peer review. the integrity of the legislation we adopt in this house continually and increasingly depends on scientific rigour, and i have increasing concerns about that. all impact assessments must be attributable to their authors. they should not be merely the result of in-house navel gazing. the authors' names must be on every impact assessment, so that we know where they come from and whether we believe vested interests are involved. in our member states there is a need for much-improved coordination between public bodies carrying out activities related to food monitoring, drinking water monitoring, air quality monitoring, and so on. in relation to health impact assessment, it seems to be internationally accepted that the methodology is evolving rather than settled, and that there is considerable difficulty in establishing and collecting the statistical data needed scientifically to underpin health impact assessments. we cannot protect people from themselves, nor should we legislate for all life's risks. we have to be frank about this. i would like to see a definition of public health. we continue to use that term across a swathe of legislation; it means different things in different countries. the commission is talking about the health of the european public, not delivering public health services. in conclusion, i would like the commission to ban mass medication of the public water supply. from an ethical point of view, it can no longer be accepted by the eu institutions.
could i ask the commissioner if he would circulate the research that has been done to show that cars running with daytime lights significantly reduces road accidents. can i also ask his view in relation to this being an issue best applied by member states? if the commissioner is interested in the issue of safety there are many areas in which the commission could involve itself – for example, i note that in france, taxi drivers do not have to wear seatbelts but once they cross into germany, they do. is this not a matter best left to member states?
thank you, commissioner, for your very direct and clear answer. there will probably be no winners, but there will certainly be losers. could you outline when people will know whether their area will receive less, or more, funding under the reclassification?
how can the commissioner justify bringing forward these proposed changes at a time when there has been a major review of the common agricultural policy? in my country, ireland, where we have just introduced full decoupling from 1 january 2005, irish farmers feel that they face a very uncertain future as regards their income. furthermore, would she consider postponing decisions until people have had an opportunity to find their feet under the new system?
thank you for your reply, commissioner. unfortunately, since my last exchange with you, my worst fears have been realised with the closure of one of our two sugar factories in ireland and the loss of the jobs that the factory provided. can i ask you for one assurance, one guarantee at least, that when your proposals finally come before us, you will not allow the sale of quotas across national borders? it has never been allowed before, and it would certainly mean the end of the irish sugar industry. secondly, in formulating these proposals, have you also looked at the use of alternative industry or energy, particularly with respect to the use of sugar beet in biofuels/bioenergy? if not, would you give an undertaking to look at it?
in general, the suffering of poor people in the third world is not always eradicated by free trade – sometimes quite the opposite. for example, brazil has huge concerns about the proposals because the poor and landless there will suffer if sugar production expands massively, as is predicted. i should like the commission's view on that. secondly, if greater efficiency is to be achieved by freeing up the movement of the beet quota, what are your intentions for the milk quota?
just to refer to the commissioner's response to mr aylward's original question with regard to the transferability of sugar quotas. the reason we are discussing this now is because the issue is part of a commission proposal, and not because it is something that member states were looking for. the difficulty and danger is that once you transfer the right and entitlement to a quota, then all production stops and sugar production is amalgamated into big multinational interests, rather than into individual national interests as at present. these ensure a solid product growth that allows competition and ensures the diversity of supply and production afterwards.
mr president, i strongly support the rapporteur's approach to this issue. in fact, i wonder why we cannot consider moving more quickly to the credit card-size licence. considering we transferred from 15 different currencies to the single european currency in a matter of weeks, it seems to me that transferring from 110 different models of licence to a single licence must be a far easier process. one of the points that concerns me is the cost of licensing for young people in particular. it must be a disincentive for them, having also to pay for training and in many cases repeating their tests. this must result in a large number of young people around europe driving without proper licensing and, therefore, presumably without proper insurance. i know that in ireland, the automobile association estimated that a fifth of the drivers on our roads have provisional licences. these are licences issued on the basis of paying a fee and getting a licence over the counter. there is at least a 12-month waiting list to get a test, and if people then fail that test - as a high proportion do - they drive on the roads without adequate training and proper knowledge for a period of at least two years. whilst it is a very good idea to have common standards across europe, we must address the question of whether member states are ensuring that the people who get these provisional licences in particular, are capable of driving safely. road death statistics seem to prove that they do not.
mr president, i hasten to add to mr de rossa's contribution that most of those driving around on provisional licences in ireland are doing so legally - such is the crazy system we have - in case people think that a fifth of the drivers are outside the law. that is not the case. i fully support the third directive on driving licences that is before us and i thank mr grosch for the work he has done on it. we are trying to ensure greater freedom of movement for our citizens, to combat fraud and above all to promote road safety. the slaughter on our roads in every one of the member states needs no underlining from me, and this is but a very small contribution. a plastic credit card-type driving licence would be ideal. the current paper licences lend themselves to fraud. we could have a credit card type with an optional microchip to reinforce further anti-fraud measures. i agree that it should be regularly renewed, again to reinforce anti-fraud protection and to renew the holder's photograph. it would also put an end to driving licence tourism by ensuring one holder, one licence. at the moment, as we euphemistically say in the english language, if you 'lose' your licence you can go and get a european driving licence or get a licence in another country. 'lose' means having it withdrawn for some major transgression of the law! harmonising the scheduling of medical checks for professional drivers has to be good and so too having minimum requirements for training for our driving examiners. this area has never been harmonised and it is most important that we go down that route. i would support all driving licences being replaced by the credit card type when they come up for renewal. i know that there is some debate around this and that there are two options. the big problem at the moment is that we must not diminish the holder's right to drive. i think there is a subliminal fear of renewing all paper driving licences, as they come up for renewal. people, particularly the more elderly amongst us, are afraid that their right to drive will in some way be threatened and that they will not get their licence back. we should give assurances that there will be no diminishing of the right to drive and that all driving licences will be transferred as they come up for renewal. i also strongly support the right to pull a trailer or a caravan under 3½ tonnes with a car licence.
in writing. common fisheries policy rules must be implemented effectively and in a uniform way. strengthening control was one of the key priorities of the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy. i therefore welcome this proposal to establish a fisheries control agency. i believe that this agency should be established without delay. i did have some problems with the text as adopted by the fisheries committee. this parliament from the outset has championed the cause of including fishermen and their legitimate representatives in the decision making process. in this context parliament gave a resounding approval to my report on regional advisory councils, or racs, as they are known. it should be no surprise to anyone that fishermen will have the greatest interests in this agency. and yet they are being inexplicably excluded from the proceedings. i believe that there is a vital need for transparency in this issue. i therefore submit that fishermen must be included. i believe that the overriding consideration is that the agency must operate in strict conformity with community interests. i believe that the question of voting rights in this new agency should not be used as a subterfuge to allow the commission to dominate proceedings. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1))
on behalf of the group.– mr president, (the speaker spoke in irish)i would like to commend my colleague, mr maštálka, for his report on promoting health and safety in the workplace. it is a very good, comprehensive report, and one worthy of support. the health and safety of workers is paramount. the enhancement of workers' rights and entitlements can only lead to a better quality of life for workers and their families. as we have already heard, there are 4.8 million work-related accidents every year in the european union and this is unacceptable, given that many of the injuries sustained would be avoidable with proper health and safety guidelines and procedures. as the european union continues its pursuit of a successful global economy, sustained economic growth and the privatisation agenda, many people believe that workers' rights have been relegated to second place. the commission and member states must ensure full implementation of protection measures and it is, quite frankly, an inadequate response to tell us that implementation is insufficient. the report indicates that a number of groups within society are particularly at risk with regard to workplace health and safety. many women face sexual harassment, bullying, lower pay than their male counterparts, and discrimination in relation to their maternity entitlements. many migrant workers and temporary workers face intolerably long hours and disgraceful pay at the hands of unscrupulous employers and these are the very people who require the most protection. the improvement of conditions requires the universal recognition of trade unions as workers' representatives. trade unions are an essential element in the delivery of healthy and safe workplaces and practices. one issue that has already been mentioned in requiring urgent attention is accidental needle stick injury, which medical professionals face every day. due to the nature of their work they are at risk of contracting blood-borne viruses such as hiv and hepatitis. again, these injuries are preventable through better training and safer work practices. we need to redress the balance between the rights of business and the rights of workers because, after all, it is workers who are the backbone of any economy. we cannot afford not to have healthy and safe workplaces.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i would like to bring a few particular groups of workers into this discussion. aside from general health and safety measures, persons with disabilities have their own individual requirements. assessing and meeting the requirements of an employee with disabilities should be a matter of course and not a hassle that an employer is tempted to avoid by not hiring persons with disabilities. in my country, there has been a dramatic increase in the numbers of teenagers working. teenagers tend to be short-term, part-time, untrained and uninformed workers. added to these risk factors, teenagers tend to feel indestructible; they have little thought for their health or safety. i know: i have teenagers. one of my sons worked for an employer who was very health conscious: the employer avoided the toxic jobs and gave them to the youngest workers. i had to make my son quit the job. if employers are going to use the energy, enthusiasm and cheap, unquestioning labours of young people, the least we can do is to require employers to ensure that teenage workers are safe. a special school of 47 children was having a fundraiser; as a parent, i attended. it was mentioned that there was no problem getting tickets printed, as eight of the children had parents who worked in printing. i was not surprised to read scientific research later that there is a probable connection between down's syndrome and other developmental disabilities from exposure to inks, glues, paints and other workplace-related chemicals, such as those used in a printing works. women, especially mothers, have unique health and safety issues that, when they are not addressed, are a major cause of stress. in the case of breastfeeding mothers, a lack of appropriate measures means that mothers stop breastfeeding, or do not attempt it at all. in ireland, we have no support for breastfeeding and we have the lowest rate of breastfeeding in the eu. this is in contrast to countries like norway, where there is good protection and good support, and where they have 98% breastfeeding rates among their mothers. research shows that the shortage of nurses, long working hours and overtime, all increase the risk of dangerous errors like needlestick injuries. there is no legislation currently governing minimum staffing levels, or any of those stress-related issues. directive 89/391/eec is not specific enough to protect healthcare workers. in the united states, the need for more specific legislation was recognised and the new needlestick injury prevention act now requires appropriate measures to be taken, particularly in terms of the equipment used by healthcare workers. i feel that it is vital in every discussion in the area of workers and workplace, especially in health and safety, to discuss those workers who are denied the status recognition, benefits and protection of employees. those are the homeworkers, both men and women. i will focus on two types: one is the family member. in my experience, it is usually a spouse, who works on the family farm or in the family business without pay. in terms of health and safety, they may benefit from the measures that are taken for their spouse, but there are no appropriate measures taken for their own needs. i think of the daily unrecognised farm working of many of my friends, of my own sister. i can still picture her and my young teenage nephews trying to deal with a bull while her husband was at the mart: no protection there. though their work is financially productive, they are not factored into eu directives. the other group of workers, men and women home carers, are probably the largest single workforce in the eu. they work very hard and save society a fortune. they are precluded from earning because they are caring for the elderly, the sick and those with disabilities. often that work costs them money to perform; often they are impoverished in their efforts. their health and safety situation is critical. home carers are commonly lifting, living on little sleep, impoverished by the cost of caring, dealing with challenging and sometimes erratic behaviour. i know, i have been one for 30 years. i urge you to bring the home workers and home carers into the employment loop with all that means, especially in protection for health and safety. i would like to mention the european parliament workers, who facilitate our work here so well. the staff who are stationed at the visitors' entrance in the low building are freezing. there is a powerful heating unit over the door to warm the entrance for visitors and staff, but it has been broken all winter. i spent some time waiting there and i was frozen. i do not know how it can be healthy for the staff who must sit there all day. i have asked on a couple of occasions for the heater to be fixed and i would ask you: please, see if you can get the heater repaired for the sake of the health and safety of the staff in this building. lastly, i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to have the input on health and safety regulations from the workers themselves. it could not be simpler: ask people what they need; they will tell you, and then the money spent on health and safety will be spent well.
mr president, i am pleased to have this brief opportunity to strongly support this resolution. perhaps the strongest contributing factor to the likelihood of current and future human rights abuses and war crimes is the fact that, in the past, persons of power have been allowed to act with impunity, with no fear of prosecution or trial under international law. this is particularly the case on the continent of africa. this resolution emphasizes a high-profile case in the necessary fight by the international community to bring an end to the scourge of people committing human rights abuses with impunity, anywhere in the world. on 7 march 2003, charles taylor was indicted by the prosecutor for the special court of sierra leone on 17 counts of crimes against humanity. these crimes included mutilation, rape, sexual slavery and the recruitment of child soldiers - all significant human rights abuses that this parliament and the eu is trying to act against in a positive way. charles taylor is being protected and given asylum status in nigeria at present, despite the fact that nigeria has ratified the geneva convention which states that those that have committed war crimes may not be granted refugee status. i encourage the council, the commission and indeed the un to act and take this resolution seriously. (applause)
mr president, a few days ago doctors at the world health organization warned that the world faces the very grave possibility of the virus known as bird flu triggering a human flu pandemic. the mortality rate for the virus is currently around 72%. should the virus spread among humans, this flu could kill literally millions of people. the world health organization advises that stockpiling vaccines is just one of the measures governments can implement to combat the spread of the virus. italy and france reportedly plan to stockpile two million doses of a vaccine each, while the uk has decided against this owing to the difficulty of designing an effective anti-viral drug in advance against a mutative virus. klaus stöhr, head of the world health organization’s global influenza programme, voiced his concerns in november last year. it is now time to ask whether the european union is doing enough to prepare itself for a potential pandemic, and if not, why not?
mr president, it is ten years since i was in beijing representing the irish government as a minister of state and i am happy to be here today to reaffirm the beijing declaration and platform for action. yes, gender equality is one of the major values the eu stands for and it would be very helpful, in selling the new constitutional treaty, if we stressed that it is reinforced in the treaty. huge differences also exist between the theory, or the rhetoric, and practice on the ground in relation to women's equality, the de jure and de facto situations. we must ensure, however, that we bring men, particularly young men, into this debate. their role models might have dominated women and not understood the concept of equality and so might not have been of the type we want our sons to become today. we are talking equality and not dominance here. they might have been brought up in religious fundamentalism and other cultures, where there was serious oppression of women and physical and sexual violence against women. this is about choice. since we have been able to control our fertility, women can now choose to have one child, no children or ten children. this is all about ensuring that women have the freedom to choose. that is what the debate must be about. but we must structure society so that, if women wish to become mothers, they can actually do that and bring up their children without economic pressures that drive them out of the house when the baby is six weeks old. we must structure society and family life today in such a way that it allows women to have a second child. the pressures on young women today in my country, for all its economic success, are such that they cannot afford a second child. they cannot afford not to work; they need the two salaries to pay the mortgage. they cannot afford childcare or care for elderly parents. the traditional roles of women in childcare and care for the elderly are all part of this wider debate and it is not possible to do justice to the subject in two minutes. mothers cannot be fathers and fathers cannot be mothers. ideally our children should have both. that will not always be possible, but let us have a broader and balanced debate and restore choice for women. then they can be properly liberated.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i too would like to thank mrs figueiredo for her work on this report. i agree with the general content and can support it. when we speak about a social europe, the most important aspect of that is our responsibility to those who are most vulnerable within our society. in particular we must protect those suffering from handicap, from disability, from a lack of advantage. the european union has proven in the past that it can be a force for good by creating equality and providing greater social protection and standing for those most in need. however, this is not, nor should it be, a one-size-fits-all policy. there is no one single method that has been proven to work in any one area. it is a combination of what is best from each of the ideologies, each of the methods, to achieve the greatest success. so i would caution people against restricting the amount of investment that private industry and business put into creating new jobs, new employment opportunities. i would also call on members to ensure that they do not unnecessarily harness negative taxation policies that restrict the room for movement of governments and, most importantly of all, to ensure that we invest in the future of our people through education and life-long learning. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, once again the eyes of the world are on the middle east. elections have been held in iraq, but there is ongoing disorder and widespread killings are taking place. israeli and palestinian leaders have met and this can be seen as a first step on the long road to peace and reconciliation between the israeli and palestinian peoples. now the focus is on lebanon and syria. the catalyst for this political uncertainty was undoubtedly the killing of the lebanese prime minister rafik hariri. the lebanese government has since resigned. we all know of the tragic civil war that engulfed lebanon between 1975 and 1990. we all know that the taif accord, designed to bring about peace in that region, is in place. however, the bottom line is that there are still 15 000 syrian troops in lebanon. while i recognise that this is substantially less than the 40 000 that were there until the late 1990s, the lebanese people clearly want the syrian troops out of their country. that is why i welcome the recent statement by syrian president bashar al-assad. he signalled that syrian troops would withdraw from lebanon. the sooner that is done the better. president bashar al-assad specifically recognised that syria would not stay in lebanon once the lebanese people did not want them there. we all know what the answer to that is, so the syrian troops must be swiftly withdrawn. i concur with the previous speaker’s comments about groups already beginning to work inside lebanon to destabilise the country yet again. in the broader political field, the european union and syria have yet to agree on a new eu-syria economic association agreement. i believe that securing agreement for such a new arrangement would help to improve relations between the european union and the syrian people. the implementation of such a treaty is long overdue. i urge the council presidency to work towards finalising this arrangement as quickly as possible.
mr president, with regard to the speakers to whom you have given the floor during this debate, i object to the lack of balance among the different member states. i indicated very early on that i wanted to speak; yet, with respect to my french colleagues, you took almost a dozen french contributions and none from members from other countries. i think you should be more balanced and should observe the order that people indicate. i know i indicated that i wished to speak before other colleagues who spoke – good luck to them. but you should watch and be fair, mr president. fair play is all we ask. (applause)
madam president, i would say to president barroso that it is true the first five years of lisbon have delivered little and most member states, which bear the ultimate responsibility for implementing the lisbon agenda, have been very slow to take ownership. it is also true that focusing on the economic agenda does not mean that we are downgrading other agendas, be this the environment or the social agenda. i would say to commissioner kroes that competition is the objective, not the problem. we cannot have a race to the back of the queue as member states scurry to avoid attracting outside investment for fear of getting a rap on the knuckles from brussels. two high-profile examples from ireland – intel and ryanair – have been highly instructive in demonstrating how unreasonably applied competition policy can militate against competition. i would urge commissioner kovács, in relation to taxation, that ‘if it ain’t broke don’t fix it’ and above all ‘don’t break it’! member states must be given the flexibility they require to implement the solutions they need to achieve their lisbon objectives, hopefully by stimulating employment through a reduction in direct taxation, especially a reduction in labour taxes. i would underline to commissioner potočnik that it is absolutely imperative that community funding for research be substantially increased under the seventh framework programme. fundamental research is essential, but equally we must facilitate the application of research and development in european businesses and foster innovation. i would say to commissioner mccreevy that facilitating the free movement of services is the missing key needed to unlock the potential of the european workforce and galvanise the european economy. as you mentioned yesterday, commissioner, it is always easier to find reasons not to do something. services contribute 70% of european gdp, and i urge you to proceed with the services directive. it is particularly important for our new member states, which have been denied the advantage of free movement of people, goods and services for so long. please single out health services, consider the benchmark of good regulation, and deal with this specific area in a more appropriate way. finally, a word to the college of commissioners in general. could we please have less regulation; better regulation; simpler regulation; thoroughly vetted regulation; risk-assessed regulation. we need to lisbon-proof reach, the services directive and the nutritional and health claims regulation. we are always an action plan away from action. commissioner barroso and colleagues, please go for it! (applause)
on behalf of the uen group.– i wish to thank the president-in-office and the president of the commission, mr barroso, for their presentations. this parliament has often taken a very narrow viewpoint with regard to the future development of the european economy and the european social model, whereas experience should have taught us that each action we take has an immediate effect on other areas. therefore, we can no longer speak of exclusively having a social model that works according to the old ideology of high taxation and high social protection. likewise, there cannot be a simple free-market area, where everyone can do whatever they wish, without any restrictions. we need rules and regulations to ensure that europe works properly not only for the consumer or business but, most importantly of all, for the citizens we govern. that is why the stability and growth pact is a good thing, in spite of the faults and mistakes in its operation that have recently been highlighted. the fact that it remains in place is a good thing, as also that it can be altered and changed to adapt to changing circumstances. however, i would warn against making widespread changes or reducing the powers contained within the stability and growth pact. let us not forget that the growth pact itself cannot be seen in isolation: it must also be seen in coordination with the broad economic policy guidelines that are laid down. action has been taken in the past against one government – the irish government – because of its so-called failure to meet certain criteria under the broad economic policy guidelines. the mistake was not that the pact was there, but that it was not enforced against other countries that continue to breach those guidelines and fail to observe the overall policies on the proper management and operation of economies and fiscal policies. finally, the lisbon strategy, which we voted on today, is a strategy for good governance, good economic growth and, above all, employment creation, which is the best tool for tackling poverty, social disadvantage and isolation. it will ensure that we in europe can give the very highest standard of jobs, training and, most importantly of all, social protection to all our citizens.
mr president, madam commissioner, i have, as you know, used every available opportunity in this parliament to raise the matter of the sugar industry. sugar beet growing and sugar processing have a long tradition in my country, dating back almost 80 years. the impact assessment adopted earlier by the commission shows that ireland is one of countries particularly vulnerable to price reductions for sugar and sugar beet. the implications of the proposal on price and quota cuts, even allowing for compensation, would make sugar beet growing no longer viable in ireland. the proposals in their current form would be devastating for the irish industry at both growing and processing levels and there would be a direct threat to the 3,800 farmers currently growing sugar beet. on the manufacturing side, the industry has in the past provided a very important employment opportunity in the sugar plants, in addition to supporting employment in associated industries. some of these jobs have already been lost. the carlow plant in my own constituency has announced its closure, with all the associated socio-economic problems. the uncertain future of the sugar sector has, in my opinion, seriously contributed to this closure. the european commission's initial reform ideas are already causing unacceptable casualties. this view was also expressed by the agriculture ministers of 10 member states, including ireland, in a joint submission to the agriculture commissioner. we all accept that reform of the existing regime is necessary. however, reform should aim at maintaining the existing distribution of sugar beet and sugar production in the entire european union territory. reform should be based on the following principles. first, an import system from third countries should be put in place, which will ensure predictable and regular import quantities. secondly, the price reductions should be significantly less than what is currently proposed and implemented more gradually. thirdly, the impact of the quota reductions should fall mainly on those member states that are net exporters of sugar. the transfer of quotas among member states should not be allowed. in recent days, the commission has approved excise relief for a bio-ethanol pilot project in ireland using rapeseed oil and i particularly welcome that. a few years ago a feasibility study was commissioned by the sugar processing sector in ireland, with a view to producing bio-ethanol using surplus sugar beet. surplus beet is of limited value to growers and an ethanol plant would provide an alternative outlet for a significant quantity of such beet. apart from the obvious benefit of bio-ethanol as an alternative energy source and its potential contribution to a cleaner environment, some of the by-products produced would also be of value to the fertiliser and animal feed sectors. i know you accept this, commissioner, and you have said so in a previous response. because of the current reform process in the sugar sector, it is time for all the governments concerned, all the relevant commission directorates and the commercial sector to act and seriously re-examine the possibility of developing a sugar-based bio-ethanol industry. in brazil, the rain forest is being destroyed to grow sugar that nobody wants, so sugar-based bio-ethanol is being produced instead. it can be done; the technology is there. commissioner, i appeal to you again to have another look at your proposals, come back and be mindful of the people that you represent.
mr president, today we are debating the difference between reform and destruction, between helping the developing world and enriching the powerful forces in the global sugar market. this house and the commission have a huge responsibility to get the balance right. reform of the sugar market is required, but destruction of the sugar market to the detriment of workers and farmers here in the european union is not acceptable. yet that is the inevitable outcome of the proposed reforms. these reforms are too drastic in terms of price and quota cuts. the inevitable consequence is the closure of the sugar industry in some member states. the proposal to trade quotas across borders is a new departure and one which will assist in the winding down of the sugar industry, especially in peripheral regions. it must also have implications for milk quotas. alongside this threat, we do not have clarity as to who actually owns the sugar quota; i think it is essential that the quota be vested in growers of beet. but let us look beyond the borders of the european union. the acp countries, which already enjoy preferential access to the eu market, have expressed their concerns that the reforms will hinder and not help their economies. further afield, brazil is waiting in the wings to increase massively its sugar production. there are some who lick their lips in anticipation, mainly the dozen or so sugar-beet barons in that country. however, for the poor, the landless, the workers in the sugar mills, there is no such eager anticipation, because they will not benefit. in reality their lives will be made even more miserable, as the barons grab land and destroy the environment in pursuit of profit. for us sugar is sweet, yet in brazil the landless speak of sugar with the taste of blood. we must be fully aware of the consequences of what is proposed. we have a chance to get it right for the developing world and the eu sugar industry, but the current proposals are not the solution to this dilemma.
mr president, i would like to emphasise one recommendation of this report: the need for clarity in gmos. i want it to be clarified that gmos will never be allowed to contaminate an organic farm. this kind of clarity cannot be given on the basis of coexistence and promises of compensation after contamination: after contamination it is too late, it is no good to an organic farmer or to people who value their produce. gm crops are an experiment, by any definition. a good scientific experiment needs a control. i do not support the experiment, but if it is to go ahead i recommend ireland as the perfect control. it is an island with predominantly westerly winds and therefore significantly protected from contamination by gmos from neighbouring countries. with the control, we will be able properly to assess gm crops for 5, 10 or 50 years; if gm bellies up, there will be somewhere to get safe food and seed stocks. today the european council is deciding whether to write the public out of the gmo process. will the council today, with the support of my own country, ireland, make gmos exempt from the aarhus convention? this must not happen. it is an issue of vital importance to organic farmers and their customers and to all stakeholders. we must insist on the right to take part in all decisions made about our environment.
mr president, today is the 46th anniversary of the tibetan national uprising of 1959 and this year the chinese government is marking the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the tibet autonomous region. the ppe-de group supports the middle-way approach for increased tibetan autonomy or self-government within a united china that is respectful of cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. this is exactly what the dalai lama has reiterated today to be his approach and that of the tibetan people. i quote his words of today: 'i want once again to reassure the chinese authorities that as long as i am responsible for the affairs of tibet, we remain fully committed to the middle-way approach of not seeking independence for tibet and are willing to remain within the people's republic of china.' i acknowledge that his excellency mr guan chengyua, the chinese ambassador to the eu, stated this morning at the china delegation meeting, in response to a question, that the door is open for the dalai lama, especially if he abandons any secessionist activities and recognises that china is whole and indivisible. it appears to me that the dalai lama, and indeed his excellency the chinese ambassador, are singing from the same hymn sheet on this and i would urge them to make progress. the dalai lama accepts the middle way as the only way forward. he has made that very clear and reiterated it today. it is also the view of my own group, which passionately supports that way forward. china has made great economic progress in recent decades and it is now a major player on the world stage, which delights us all. we see the potential and the enormous contribution that china and the chinese people can make worldwide. there still is, as commissioner kallas said earlier, a problem in certain areas of human rights. we should be able to sit down and make progress in these areas. in china, with a population of 1½ billion, the scale of the problem is different, but china has made enormous progress on the economic side. i believe, with the good will and support of all concerned, china can make the same progress on human rights issues and we want to encourage it to do that. tibet, however, is an international treasure and international treasures are not the preserve of any one people. we want to help the chinese to preserve tibet, which has a unique cultural, religious and linguistic heritage. i say to the chinese authorities: please preserve it, through the middle way approach, through supporting the autonomous region of tibet, so that we can all continue to enjoy the heritage of this absolute jewel on the world stage.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would especially like to thank mr posselt, who has touched on something that, for obvious reasons, is a serious point. what he said about the history of my own nation is true. along with the rest of estonia, i am very familiar with the history of tibet, and with the events of 1959 in particular. we in europe have to be concerned at the situation in tibet, and i am pleased to say that the commission is keeping this issue high on its agenda. what can be done? the commission is in favour of genuine autonomy and the preservation of cultural, religious and national identity. we have received some positive signs that the process is going in the right direction. we have had consultations with representatives of the dalai lama and know that there have been consultations between his representatives and the chinese authorities. we hope that possible solutions will follow. in history, large-scale, comprehensive and unanimous peaceful pressure from the free world has brought impressive results. i am convinced that the european parliament and the european commission will again prove powerful driving forces for such pressure. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, i beg permission to raise a matter concerning human rights. i have sent in letters on the subject. the human rights problems in tibet, belarus and so on are hard to comprehend. however, that does not mean that we do not have problems in our own countries. last week a family with five special needs children had their children taken from them. that family’s case had been reported in the national media, exposing the lack of services for their own children and children in general. in ireland the services are very patchy and in places very poor, and some families have been told that if they need help the state might take their children from them. i have had at least six families come to me about this. the five children involved were supposed to be returned to their parents on monday, but have not been as yet. they are autistic and there is no way to explain to them what is happening or that they cannot go home. they are being damaged for life. i appeal to the house to talk to the irish government about its treatment of people with disabilities and their families.
mr president, the first ever nation-wide electoral process in the history of saudi arabia is under way, with the local elections in riyadh completed last month and continuing in the rest of the country until april. riyadh had an 82% turnout of men only, even though the saudi arabian electoral law states that all citizens are eligible to vote. the authorities have declared that women will be entitled to vote in the future. i acknowledge that last october they ratified the un convention on the elimination on all forms of discrimination against women. those elections were witnessed by a delegation of the european parliament and i wish to thank the authorities for the kindness and hospitality extended to all its members. i favour a substantial strengthening of eu-saudi relations and urge the eu institutions to increase our presence in the region. i welcome the enactment of new codes of judicial procedure and criminal procedure and the establishment of a standing committee to investigate complaints of torture and a national programme to eliminate poverty. i hope these very positive moves will translate into practice on the ground very soon. i know that centuries of cultural and religious practice separate the eu and saudi arabia. however, i must urge the saudi arabian authorities to lift the restrictions on women's freedom, including the prohibition to drive, to work, to hold public office – restrictions on their very legal personality. while countering terrorism and fundamentalism is essential, we must at the same time safeguard basic human and civil freedoms. i would also urge more tolerance in relation to religious freedom. i look forward to very fruitful relations continuing between the eu and saudi arabia. i am particularly concerned here as a woman and a public representative of a small country that up to 30 years ago had prohibitions on women's rights in many areas; women were not even allowed to work once they got married. we have come a long way. we do not always get it right in our part of the world, but let us look at the women's issue in saudi arabia and move ahead on that together.
mr president, with the agreement of the group of the greens/european free alliance i should like to amend the wording of the new paragraph 2a to read: '... calls on the saudi arabian government to lift restrictions on women's free movement (including the prohibition to drive) - there is a change of word there -, on employment opportunities, on their legal personality and on their representation in judicial process'.
mr president, i wish to raise my concern that the irish government is not fully respecting the minimum legal and humanitarian standards for the reception and processing of immigrants and asylum seekers that have been established by the european union. on 14 march this year, the police took into custody 35 nigerians, including men, women and children. police raided schools to arrest children for them to be deported; they deported parents without children who could not be found; and deported one young man who was within a few weeks of completing his leaving certificate – a very important examination in ireland because it grants admission to irish universities. the extraordinary thing is that the irish government has now had to reverse its decision to deport that young man and, having declared that it regrets making a mistake, has now issued him with a six-month visa. i firmly believe that the irish government is in breach of european union standards in relation to transparency in complying with humanitarian law, and the minimum standards that we have set down. so i would ask you, mr president, to request that the commission carry out an investigation into this matter and report back to this house.
mr president, i welcome glenys kinnock’s report. it is a comprehensive, practical and indeed pragmatic approach to a very serious and horrific situation. i also welcome the commissioner’s intention to develop a common development strategy and i would urge him to engage with national parliaments, as well as with others in the member states. i am quite sure he will find a groundswell of support for his approach to this issue. the statistics for poverty and mortality are quite horrific. every time this electronic clock in front of me ticks, a child dies needlessly. every minute the clock ticks, three women die needlessly in pregnancy or childbirth. yet there are people here who would have this parliament decide against allowing those women to exercise their choice on their health, on the kind of contraception they might use, and whether or not they should choose abortion. i urge this parliament to reject the amendments which seek to do that. this parliament has no place dictating to women in the developing world as to how they should address their health needs.
in writing. sinn fein has a strong record of support for the mdgs and the objective of halving world poverty by 2015. mrs kinnock’s report outlines the many steps which need to be taken by the eu and its member states to achieve these important goals. our support for her resolution is in that context. recitals 47 and 63 contain elements which are outside sinn fein party policy and our support for the core elements of the resolution should not be taken as a full endorsement of the detail of these two recitals.
mr president, firstly, i welcome the progress made by romania on its path towards membership of the european union. in a short amount of time a lot has been achieved and i want to congratulate the romanian authorities on this. we have heard this afternoon about the areas where more progress is required and our genuine concerns about how it will all be financed. despite baroness nicholson of winterbourne’s very positive report on the improvement in childcare in romania, the care of children and young adults in state institutions is an issue. i am talking particularly about those children and young adults with disabilities. less than a year ago, amnesty international launched a disturbing report on the tragic deaths of a number of patients in a psychiatric hospital in romania. the report indicated that the deaths were mainly due to malnutrition and hypothermia and were sadly not an exception in the romanian mental health care system. i know that the european union, working with the romanian authorities, has been involved in very important work to reduce the number of children and young adults in institutionalised care. however, amnesty international has pointed out that not enough account has been taken of the many young adults who have been inappropriately transferred from the state institutions that were closed down and have ended up in psychiatric hospitals, where they may well languish for the rest of their lives. i accept that things have greatly improved in romania. the commission recently informed me of all its work in this regard, but a lot more remains to be done in this area. it is simply not acceptable that children and young adults in romania are held in inappropriate care. indeed, it is not acceptable that this should happen in any eu member state. i support the accession of romania to the european union, but i would urge the romanian authorities, the commission, this parliament and all relevant bodies not to forget the real people i am talking about: those who do not have a voice. their situation needs to be carefully monitored and improved in the run-up to accession and thereafter.
madam commissioner, i thank you for your very detailed reply. although i have made my opposition known to the commission’s proposals on several occasions, i welcome the broad range of your reply. i do not have to tell you, commissioner, that more and more land will become available for alternative use as a result of the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy. with that in mind, could you give me an assurance that no stone will be left unturned by your directorate-general, and the other directorates involved including research, energy, transport, etc., to ensure that all necessary research and evaluation is carried out to establish the viability of bioethanol produced from sugar beet? furthermore, do you agree with me that in view of the frightening developments in world climate change and the constant rise in fuel prices, this research must be done sooner rather than late? finally, madam commissioner, would it not be rewarding for you and all of us to think our farmers could and would seriously contribute to controlling climate change by alternative use of agricultural land the use of alternative and renewable energy resources?
thank you, commissioner, for your detailed reply, which i will study carefully. perhaps it was to do with the way the application was made, but would the commissioner agree that the commission is in danger of sending contradictory signals? on the one hand, the commission says that it wants the european union to become one of the most or the most competitive it-based economy and, on the other hand, it turns down an application for aid for something that will not now be allocated anywhere else within the european union. would the commissioner agree that this is a fair comment?
i listened with interest to the commissioner’s reply to my colleague gay mitchell on this issue, in particular taken together with question 45, which dealt with the eur 6 billion of state aid by the british government for the restructuring of british energy. are extra jobs going to be created there? i should like to reiterate the point that mr mitchell just made. the loss of this money to intel, or the withdrawal of state aid by the irish government, will not benefit any other eu member state at all. there is no question of the investment going elsewhere in europe, so the logic is lost on us in terms of the various points you made. i look forward to hearing your reply.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, to clarify something for me. in relation to the issue of positive trends in water quality, you said that it would take some years to see considerable improvement. there are concerns that if you do not see considerable improvement, as you say, stricter rules will be enforced in relation to agriculture. could you please comment on that? could you also outline what the infringement procedure means in terms of actual fines or what penalties farmers might suffer as a result of ireland not having a proper action plan? in addition, can you outline the specific issues that the commission is concerned about in relation to ireland?
member of the commission. closed periods should be the same in areas with the same climate conditions. i know that there are problems in certain areas. there is debate as to whether muck spreading should take place during january or even february. the farmers association has requested that it should take place from march onwards. however, it depends on the area of ireland and on the climatic conditions of each of these areas.
could i ask the commissioner, in view of the fact that this directive is now 14 years old, whether the level of nitrates found in irish drinking water has increased or decreased over that period? how much longer is the commission going to sit on its hands and allow blatant breaches of this directive, not just in ireland but in other countries as well?
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– madam president, an outbreak does not become an epidemic in a healthy society. if we are truly in danger of an epidemic, even a pandemic, in the developed world, then we should look very carefully at ourselves. we have the wealthiest societies in the history of the world. with this, we should have the healthiest societies. do we? no. ever-increasing rates of chronic illness such as asthma and diabetes indicate that we are not the healthiest society. junk food, chemicals, pollution and addictions are doing our immune systems no favours. if these are leaving us vulnerable to an epidemic, we should do something about it. we should have our health and use our wealth to prevent an epidemic in poor countries by improving water, sanitation and nutrition: the reasons for which epidemics spread. we should be anticipating a flu outbreak in the west. we are inexcusably expecting an epidemic.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, we all know only too well that recent years have brought great sadness to the balkans region and to the many people who lost family and loved ones as a result of the wars there. the final phase of this war resulted in the nato attack on kosovo and the collapse of the regime. i very much support the policies of the european union, which have been put in place to help to rebuild the economies of the western balkans region. the european union is right in the most part to treat the balkans area as a single region. politically, this is a very sensitive issue in terms of the future relationship between the european union and the western balkans. the european union is, of course, the single largest contributor of economic aid to the balkans region at this time. monies are being used to improve basic infrastructures in the field of transport, environment, energy and telecommunications. european union support is also being directed towards improving the efficiency of public institutions, focusing in particular on the judiciary, police forces and public administration. that does not mean, however, that the european union is not critical of political developments in the balkans region. the european union is still demanding that war suspects be handed over to the international war tribunal in the hague. however, there have been many very positive developments in the balkan region in recent times. i welcome the american government’s decision to withdraw its troops from bosnia and hand over peacekeeping control to european union forces. it is clear that there is broad political stability in the region. we know that we must keep a very close eye on political developments in that region and i support what is known as the stabilisation and association process. i am in favour of these countries becoming members of the european union if they comply with the copenhagen criteria in terms of respecting the rule of law and promoting human rights. the european union as a political entity knows and will meet its obligations in this regard.
i would like to ask the president-in-office if he accepts that the members' statute and the package of allowances of this parliament are being taken together, as was agreed in november or december twelve months ago, just before the irish presidency. the members' statute is urgent because it could enable us to clear up the whole debate surrounding the allowances. yesterday's vote on the budget discharge showed that those who are politically honourable and who accept the agreement made eighteen months ago, stood by it despite pressure from the media and others to do otherwise. we need reform; we need reform of the whole package: members' statute and allowances. could you guarantee that within this presidency we will have a members' statute put to us? could you guarantee that those colleagues who jumped ship at council level last time, when we thought we had a compromise under the irish presidency, will be on board this time around? have you had negotiations or any assurances from those countries?
i wish to join with other members in urging the presidency to expedite this statute. i was struck by the hypocrisy of members who opposed the discharge of the accounts yesterday, having drawn expenses themselves from those accounts they now say they oppose. i have never seen such hypocrisy in my life and it was very distasteful. i would urge the presidency to bring forward this statute so that this matter is regularised once and for all in terms of both our remuneration and expenses for our work. there is absolutely no chance that the hypocrites who kicked up a fuss here yesterday will refund the money to put right what they say is wrong with the accounts they refused to discharge yesterday. this is absolutely disgraceful behaviour.
president-in-office, my question referred to young adults as well, and perhaps i should have added 'with disabilities', because there are some issues around this. could you advise me on the state of the rollout of the national pilot project for the reform of institutions under anph, and specifically in relation to negru voda, and when this pilot project might be rolled out nationally?
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i would need two hours to detail the problems that migrant workers face coming into and working in ireland. we have the reputation of being one of the most generous countries in terms of allowing access from the ten new member states. that is true. there are many good employers in ireland who treat their workers well. unfortunately there are employers in ireland who treat workers from the ten new countries appallingly. we have cases of workers being expected to work for 12 hours per day, 7 days a week for eur 1 per hour. we have situations where the polish embassy is on record as saying that it has queues of people coming to it in tears, having been fired on the spot by employers who know that there is a queue of polish workers waiting to take their jobs. the specific case i want to raise tonight relates to an actual case not in a member state but in a candidate country: a turkish company employing turkish workers in ireland that is engaged in the systematic defrauding of its employees. it has been transferring funds belonging to these workers to a dutch bank, the account of which it controls. it is suspected that this company owns that bank. i want the commissioner to investigate that case. i want the commission to contact the irish authorities to find out why it has taken a member of parliament to reveal the facts, despite the fact that we have a department responsible for investigating breaches of labour law. we have 21 inspectors covering the whole state, a deplorably small number. we need at least 100. i would also like the commission to investigate whether gama – the company to which i refer – is involved in money laundering and illegally shifting money that belongs to workers out of ireland to a bank in the netherlands which, it is claimed, it also owns. i want an investigation into this. it is not good enough for us to pat ourselves on the back and say that we are doing great things, creating competition, ensuring that people get work, when those same people are being exploited deplorably. it is not good enough. the commission must accept its responsibility to ensure compliance with european legislation.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, it is not often that i can say that i am in total agreement with two separate reports from the committee on fisheries. this is one of those rare occasions. chairman morillon and vice-chairman miguélez ramos both highlight the need to ensure that the socio-economic impact and consequences of recovery plans are measured and addressed, with appropriate compensation. two years ago almost to the day, i stated in this house that decisions and objectives of fish recovery plans cannot disregard the social and economic consequences they will have. recovery plans must seek a balance between the recovery and conservation of stocks, and measures to limit the impact on the fishing industry. the utmost respect must be paid to the need for social, economic and regional cohesion, and the highest priority must be given to the defence of the populations of those regions that are highly dependent on fisheries. let me say very clearly, as i have said many times in the past and will say again at every available opportunity, that the common fisheries policy is not only about fish but also, and most importantly, about fishermen. it is about their families and their families’ futures, their way of life – the only one possible in many areas – and the future of entire coastal communities. chairman morillon and vice-chairman miguélez ramos both refuse the technocratic approach of rebuilding stocks at all cost, preferring instead to suggest ways to ensure that stocks remain within safe biological limits. i, for one, share that approach.
mr president, mr posselt, we have to accept our responsibilities to ensure that the credibility of parliament is defended in relation to human rights and humanitarian norms. we have an obligation to raise the question of lampedusa and the appalling treatment of the hundreds of poor and weak people who are deported en masse by the italian government to a regime which would not qualify for membership of this union. if we are to have any credibility whatsoever in relation to human rights and international law we must insist that all member states respect those norms. the italian government is not respecting those norms by any measure, and i would urge the commission to insist that the italian government – and indeed any other member state, if it is in breach of these norms – be hauled before the european court of justice to ensure that these laws are respected. i want to draw particular attention to paragraph 4 of this resolution, which refers to article 6 of the treaty on european union, and also to paragraph 9. i urge the commission to press the libyan government to stop arbitrary arrests of those whom they consider to be migrants, and to respect the geneva convention and the mandate of the high commissioner for refugees.
rapporteur.– mr president, i welcome the presence of the council and the commission, who are here to listen to our deliberations on an important report. it has been a fascinating and challenging experience for me to produce the annual report on human rights in the world 2004 and the eu’s policy on the matter. it is my first report in parliament and i was glad to take on such a significant one. it was an honour for my party to be given the rapporteurship. the title of the report is very broad-ranging and the report itself correspondingly deals with very many issues and very many countries. seventy countries are dealt with in this report, where we shine a light on human rights abuses. the report deals with 70 different countries and eight thematic issues. therefore, i was determined from the outset to give the report a very tight structure so that people interested in different human rights issues and themes in different countries, could navigate it quickly and efficiently, as opposed to having a lengthy report with no headings, requiring people to read a third, half or indeed the whole report to find the area in which they were interested. the preparation process has been a detailed one. we debated this report in the subcommittee on human rights on 23 november 2004, again on 31 january 2005 and on 17 march – st patrick’s day – 2005. the full committee on foreign affairs has also had plenty of time to debate and contribute to this report. it did so on 17 january, 16 march and again on 29 march. the process has therefore been thorough. consultation between the groups, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, has been constructive and positive and i wish to thank my colleagues in other groups for that process. from the outset i made it quite clear that i wanted this report to reflect the concerns of parliament as a whole and not of any one group. i hope we have achieved that and that it will be reflected in a strong endorsement of the report tomorrow. i have no reason to believe that will not be the case. now we get down to the real question: what has all this work been about; what useful purpose that can this report serve now and in the future? let me outline the contribution i believe it can make. firstly, and perhaps most importantly, this report must set the agenda for parliament and must be a guide for parliament when it tries to influence both the commission and the council with regard to the direction they should be taking on thematic issues and the priority the european union gives to human rights. the first thematic issue is a difficult one politically. it concerns human rights and the fight against terrorism, which in many ways seems like a contradiction in terms. however, we are living in a modern world, where there are real terrorism threats both to europe and to other parts of the world, on which the european union must take a position. at the same time, we must be true to our values in relation to respect for human rights and try to get the balance right. i would encourage the council in particular to look at the first thematic issue in detail. i believe the report makes a balanced attempt to answer that difficult political question. the second thematic issue is children’s rights. i received a lot of lobbying on this issue, and mush attention was devoted to it. it is genuinely felt that the european union has not responded comprehensively and could improve its policy in this area. therefore, the report calls on the commission to present, as soon as possible, a detailed communication on children’s rights, linking the issue with eu development policy. the third area concerns the impact that conflict situations have on women and children, leading to tragic consequences on a regular basis. it deals with issues such as rape as a war tool. many thousands of women have been abused in the most horrific ways during conflict situations, as a tool of war. it also deals with the issue of child soldiers. unfortunately, there are still tens of thousands of children who have ak-47s put into their hands and are sent out to war to kill other people. it deals with the psychological effects that has on those children as they grow older. i shall refer to the european union’s response to that shortly. the next section relates to the death penalty, an area where the european union has had a lot of success in influencing its neighbours through the neighbourhood policy and has brought about a moratorium on the death penalty in many countries. indeed, we are working towards achieving a ban on it. the report also deals with trafficking in human beings, the role of international business and its responsibilities in the human rights field and, perhaps most important of all, the issue of impunity and the role of the international criminal court, which deserves the support of the european union. it is my belief that in many parts of the developing world impunity is the single biggest contributing factor to continued human rights abuses, because people believe that they will not be punished or held to account for the horrific actions they either sanction or take themselves. this report very strongly supports the icc. it also strongly encourages the european union to persuade influential countries such as the united states to support the icc. the report also deals with many individual countries. i have been encouraged by the growing influence that the european union clearly has on many countries in the world. many ambassadors and representatives from different countries have come to me concerned … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank mr coveney for his extremely comprehensive and well written report. i particularly liked the fact that he not only clearly identified human rights abuses, he also identified and praised efforts to end such abuses where these efforts are being made. i trust this report will receive widespread and deserved approval. will we give an equally positive response to the people who, through courage or desperation, flee these human rights abuses and arrive legally or illegally at our borders? i hope so. i say to the council that, unfortunately, the eu countries’ response to victims is often to close the door. there is the case of two ukrainian doctors who risked their lives to expose local ukrainian businesses that market organ tissue from 20-week-old babies, purchased, birthed and kept alive during the painful harvesting process. after attempts on their lives, the doctors escaped to ireland last september. they are still in a holding centre with no assurance of being granted asylum and facing the possibility of deportation and death. i will not support proposed amendments that would change this constructive report by introducing yet another human rights abuse – abortion – into the already abusive situation of war. one abuse cannot justify another. a woman who has been abused by a rapist needs help and protection, not more death and destruction.
mr president, i would like to raise an urgent matter concerning the operations of a turkish-owned bank in the netherlands known as finansbank. it has facilitated the laundering of up to eur 30 million from a turkish construction company located in the republic of ireland. this money belonged to the 800 or so turkish workers working for this company in ireland. the money was transferred without the knowledge of the workers concerned. it was subsequently transferred by finansbank to another company called ryder investments. as far as i am concerned this is money laundering: the illegal transfer of money not belonging to gama to another bank in the netherlands and subsequently to another bank. we have to investigate the operations of finansbank, we have to investigate the operations of gama, and we have to tell the turkish authorities that companies incorporated in turkey must comply with european law when they operate in the european union. i am in favour of the turkish republic joining the european union, but this kind of activity will undermine its efforts to do so. it is also important to recognise that gama is currently in the process of seeking to dismiss the workers who blew the whistle on this scam. gama is, in my view, in breach of the anti­discrimination directives. it is also in breach of the directives that oblige the company to inform the workers of its intentions. i would appreciate it if the president would convey my comments to the commission president. i am happy that commissioner špidla is in the chamber at the moment and i hope he has taken note of my remarks because they are serious: they are not made lightly. these investigations have to be carried out.
on behalf of the alde group .– madam president, i welcome the report on the european agency for health and safety at work and i congratulate the rapporteur on work well done. the key elements of this agency are its research and distribution of best practice to member states in relation to standards concerning health and safety at work. legislation governing the health and safety of workers throughout the eu is a prime example of how the eu has made and can make a positive contribution to raising the quality of life for millions of the union’s citizens. but legislation is just one part of the equation; enforcing that legislation is another. health and safety in the workplace can only be maintained where adequate monitoring is conducted at workplace level. while i am not familiar with the situation in other european countries, i know that in ireland we do not have an adequate number of inspectors and monitors to ensure the health and safety of our own workers. a notable case in ireland recently has been the exposure of the turkish multinational company gama, which has deprived workers of earnings through paying substantially below the minimum wage and endangered their health and safety by requiring a substantial number of its workers to work up to 80 hours per week. this is extremely damaging to the health and safety of those workers. in the potentially dangerous construction industry, accidents are much more likely to occur when people are required to work such long hours. of course, it is not just the company that has a responsibility. we have the legislation in ireland, we have the minimum wage, but we are not properly enforcing that legislation. this is a high-profile case in ireland at the moment, but there have been a number of cases in recent times where workers’ rights, particularly immigrant workers’ rights, have been trampled on. turkey is currently applying for membership of the eu and i support that move, but part of that process will have to be a requirement that major companies like gama respect and protect workers’ rights within the eu. i believe the onus is on the turkish government to ensure this happens. so, while we welcome this excellent report today, and indeed commend the work of the agency, we all need to be vigilant in our own countries to ensure that workers’ rights are upheld. in particular, we need to be vigilant where workers are exposed to dangers and to risks and where they are less well represented by trade unions. what we are talking about here are immigrant workers, under-age workers, temporary workers, and so on. finally, i wish to make a comment on amendment 7, which underlines the need for reliable information and comparative data and the need for a systematic collection of data across the member states in the field of health and safety at work, with the support of eurostat. we need accurate information across all 25 member states, collected in a uniform way, so that we have good-quality, reliable and relevant information to underpin all policy decisions.
on behalf of the ind/dem group .– madam president, i would like to thank mr hughes for his report, and i would like to congratulate the agency for the 13 per cent reduction in accidents in the workplace. however, i would like to mention the fact that the administrative board finds itself overburdened with the administration to the point that it cannot concentrate on strategic planning. this is a pity, because i would like it to strategically plan so as to be able to look at the workers that are not included in the agency’s vigilance for health and safety. i refer to these as ‘home carers’, and will continue to do so for the rest of my time here. they make up the largest workforce in europe; they often lift beyond their weight and work around the clock, year in and year out. there is nobody monitoring their health and safety. it can sometimes be quite ludicrous: as a home carer myself, for a short period of time i had someone sent in by the state to give me a few hours’ help a week. this helper could not lift, could not put his hand above his head, could not in fact do anything that a carer had to do. i had to let him go because there was no help he could give, all on the basis of health and safety. i, however, could do anything, no matter how dangerous, because i was a home carer.
on behalf of the pse group.– madam president, i wish to apologise for missing my slot earlier. i am afraid i ran out of my office with the wrong file under my arm and had to go back for the correct one. it happens to us all. i would like briefly to refer to mr mote’s comments: he might be a bit more sanguine about the health and safety regulations if he had once had to gather up the remains of an unfortunate worker who had slipped off a roof and ended up dead on the street below because there was no scaffolding available during his work, and had then to go to the family of that unfortunate man and explain why he was dead. there is nothing in the health and safety regulations that is an undue burden on business. after all, the human cost of the deaths on building sites – which are quite appalling – and the injuries – which are also quite appalling – cannot be measured by the inconvenience of having to put up a bit of scaffolding. i would like to address two points here. first and foremost i should like to thank stephen hughes for his report and indeed for seeking to raise the whole issue of gender balance in the boards of the health and safety authority. i would also briefly like to mention mrs harkin’s european foundation report, which unfortunately is not being debated in the house, but is being voted on tomorrow as well. that dealt with perhaps a much more complex problem because of the staffing situation there – it being a much older foundation. the commission and the council sought to change the status of the workers in that foundation and we had to negotiate considerably to try and find a solution to that. while this parliament is only consulted on this issue, i believe we have found good common ground between the staff of the foundation, the management and indeed the parliament here. i know that the irish presidency initiated discussions on this during its time in office and it helped to encourage the luxembourg presidency to take on board the recommendations that this parliament is making. i hope that the report is adopted without difficulty here tomorrow.
deputising for the author. – mr president, with your permission i will also be representing mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. he should have been leading on behalf of the ppe-de group, but cannot join us this evening so he has ceded his time to me in addition to my own time, so thank you for your patience on that. the oral question before us was tabled by my colleague mr florenz and we also have a motion for resolution further to that oral question on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu strategy for the punta del este conference on persistent organic pollutants. for the record, next week the first conference of the parties of the stockholm convention on pops or persistent organic pollutants, takes place in punta del este in uruguay. pops are organic chemicals that break down very slowly in the environment and accumulate in our bodies; indeed they are in the tissues of every human being on the planet. they are spread through the air and through the food chain very far from their sources, even to regions where they have never been used or produced. they include insecticides such as ddt – perhaps the best-known pop – industrial chemicals such as pcbs and indeed the unintentional by-products of industrial processes such as dioxins and furans. once pops are released into the environment it is almost impossible to predict where they will end up, so we have to apply the precautionary principle, but most importantly take steps to restrict their use and their placing on the market generally. it is important, however, that the needs of developing countries are taken into account and that our response is proportionate and that we allow controlled exemptions. i am thinking primarily of the use of ddt against malaria because, despite the best efforts of scientists and their redoubled efforts to find an effective vaccine, this is still many years away. so our approach must be proportionate, particularly when we realise that every minute two children in africa die of malaria. every day over 3 000 children in africa die of malaria. the mosquito responsible for transmitting malaria has proved extremely resilient to the various methods of dealing with it down the years. to date the only effective method of killing the mosquito is by the use of ddt. although it is a very toxic substance, the benefit still outweighs the risk when your child is less likely to die of persistent organic pollution poisoning than of malaria. so if we can save a child’s life, until we have some other way of doing it and killing the mosquito in question, we will have to allow controlled use. however, we must double our efforts to find an alternative to ddt because huge damage is being done to humans – it is biocumulative – and to our environment by our need to look after the children who are here today. we have nothing else to replace ddt to eliminate malaria and the mosquito involved. i should like to put a few specific questions to the commissioner. commissioner, you will probably be familiar with the resolution that is before you. i should like to draw your attention to paragraph 9, which says that parliament ‘believes that the members of the european parliament who are part of the ec delegation have an essential contribution to make and expects, therefore, that they will have access to eu coordination meetings in punta del este on the basis at least of observer status’. the motion goes on to say ‘with or without speaking rights’. i should be quite happy with observer status without speaking rights. commissioner, i say this regardless of precedent or quoting interinstitutional agreements, because i would like to say yet again on the record that, just a few weeks after you were appointed, commissioner, at the conference of the parties in buenos aires in relation to climate change, cop 10, you made great strides in including the members of the european parliament, both before and after various meetings, in terms of full briefings. you even went so far as to ask us for our opinion on different issues. that was very much appreciated by all of us across the groups in this house. i know you cannot join us in punta del este, but i would ask that you make it very clear to those honourable people who will be representing you there that you would like the precedent you created last december to continue. it is one step less than we would like, because we want observer status and we request that. there is little point in sending members of parliament half way across the globe, to be part of a commission/council/parliament delegation, a community delegation, if one third are kept outside the door albeit with briefings when the business is done. let us take it one step at a time, let us at least have observer status at the coordination meetings and at the meetings where the real work is done and of course be part of any press conference and press briefing that may wind up the week. it is the first cop – i accept that – and perhaps we will not have as much to report as we would like because we are only developing structures and strategies to deal with this most important issue. those are my points. at this hour of the night there is no point in underlining yet again how important a job the stockholm convention has to do. i would like in conclusion to ask you, commissioner, about the goals and the timetable for the addition of extra organic chemicals to the list of pops as set out under the convention, which were discussed last august. the commission suggested that seven new substances should be added to the list for eventual exclusion. somehow over the autumn and over christmas and the new year, by the time of the council conclusions on 10 march, the seven had dropped to up to three additional substances. we had gone from a worthy ambition of seven last august to up to three, plus of course penta bde, the norwegian proposal, which might be a fourth one. but up to three could be none, one or two as well as three. i would just like to know where the commission stands on this. the european community and the member states wanted to forward an extensive list to be considered if possible before the first cop next week, but in any case in time for examination by the first meeting of the pops review committee. are we going to have it before next week? why has it not happened? what has happened to the goals and the timetables that were clearly set out? maybe you could tell us, commissioner, what has happened between 10 march and today? it is rather disappointing that our ambitions of seven to be added last summer have been reduced to up to three at this stage. to me it sounds as though the urgency and the ambition that were initially there have evaporated. it is almost as if air is being let out of the tyre of enthusiasm in relation to it.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i agree with the commission’s view that nitrates and pesticides, as listed in annex i, should remain the two substances for which we have eu-wide standards. we then should allow member states to establish threshold values for a range of other substances. in the longer term, in the light of experience and information as a result of implementing the framework water directive, we may then be in a much better position to translate threshold values at national level into eu-wide groundwater quality standards. in my opinion this is a more reasonable and pragmatic way forward, but critically it is workable and achievable. and when do we amend legislation in this parliament? it is essential that it is workable across 25 countries and it is essential that the subsidiarity principle is enshrined in our legislation so that we can achieve high standards that work at national level. i am happy to agree with the opinion put forward by the committee on agriculture and rural development, which suggests that the commission should analyse whether the nitrates directive can be repealed from 2008. i agree with this in the context of what i have just said. legislation should be adequate and workable, but most importantly it should achieve its stated objectives. the nitrates directive is certainly not doing this with 12 of the 15 member states being taken to court over wrong or inadequate implementation. but the essential points are that it does not take soil or climatic conditions into consideration and, most critically, that the goal of the nitrates directive should be defined at community level but not the mechanism to achieve that goal. yesterday evening i went to see the exhibition hosted by the joint research centre. one of the exhibits informed me that there are 28 different soil groups all over europe and six of these soil groups are present in ireland. how can a one-size-fits-all directive, like the nitrates directive, work efficiently in these circumstances? moreover, it is not just soil that matters; it makes an important difference whether the area is grassland or ploughed land. as to the issue of climate, all i can say is that in ireland we do not have a climate, we have weather. and if irish farmers were to follow the letter of the directive and spread slurry when allowed, they would cause pollution rather than prevent it. we all want clean water but the legislation we put in place must be adequate to achieve it.
mr president, groundwater is a priceless natural resource, not a national resource, and it should be treated as a resource without which humanity cannot survive. consequently we have no right to compromise on the quality of water or to cut deals here on the quality of water. we must err on the side of precaution, not on the side of cost. i have no confidence at all that member states will maintain or indeed establish adequate standards. they have failed to do so up to now. they have allowed thousands of illegal dumps right across europe, including in ireland. ireland has not yet implemented the 1992 nitrates directive. thirteen years later it still has not implemented that directive, not because it is not necessary – it is absolutely necessary in ireland – but because it is afraid of the irish farmers association. i want to conclude by saying that we must not only set stringent standards, we must set strict and severe penalties for those member states which fail to meet those standards and we should not hide behind the principle of subsidiarity, which is simply escaping from our responsibilities.
mr president, the proposed directive is intended to ensure that groundwater quality is monitored and evaluated across europe in a harmonised way. the proposed approach to establishing quality criteria is both flexible and iterative, taking account of local characteristics and allowing further improvements. this directive responds directly to article 17 of the 2000 water framework directive, and we have been waiting for it for some time. the approach of the commission is to establish groundwater quality standards at eu level for nitrates and pesticides – on which many colleagues have commented – and to allow member states themselves to establish threshold values for a range of other substances such as arsenic and cadmium, a minimum list of which is set out in the directive. i agree with that approach, as there is no need for any further harmonisation across europe. we must respect differences in climate and soil type. i shall go one step further. eventually that approach, which allows member states to decide on the basis of river-basin management plans – which under the framework directive will eventually manage all freshwater sources once they are put in place – will also allow member states to manage their nitrate and pesticide pollutants. we should eventually take this approach to everything. the nitrates directive has been mentioned. farmers also need and want clean water. nobody can be allowed to pollute our groundwater or freshwater with nitrates or anything else. however, a one-size-fits-all policy has proved extremely difficult, as colleagues have said, with 12 out of 15 of the older member states currently in court for non-transposition or improper transposition of the nitrates directive. it was never a comfortable directive. it never fitted properly, because we did not respect the differences in member states and we did not trust member states to monitor their own pollution in that area. i wish to ask commissioner dimas specifically why he continues to allow the irish government to add a pollutant, fluoride, to our public drinking water supply. i know it is not directly an issue for the commission, but how can we stand up here and wax eloquent about water safety and about water being essential for life – on which we all agree – if we continue to allow a member state to pollute the public water supply with fluoride? i ask the commissioner to do something about that urgently or all this legislation – framework directives, water directives and so on – will come to nought.
mr president, everyone agrees with the objectives of this proposed directive. differences exist as to how we are going to achieve those objectives: the optimist in me says we are almost halfway there. groundwater is a major national resource. in ireland groundwater and aquifers provide one quarter of our drinking water. monitoring of irish groundwater by the environmental protection agency shows that there is no widespread contamination of individual aquifers. most samples taken by the agency reflected unpolluted conditions. this is as it should be and it is good news, but we need vigilance. we need uniform measurement techniques across the eu, but we do not need common threshold values other than for nitrates and pesticides. soil and subsoil types are important considerations in characterising the vulnerability of aquifers to contamination. these vary considerably throughout the union. equally, however, allowing for different threshold values in member states to take account of these local natural conditions must not lead to unacceptable differences in the protection level or distortions in competition and trade. as we have already heard, experience with the nitrates directive has not been good and it should guide us in how we frame the groundwater directive. the nitrates directive fails to take account of climate or soil conditions in member states. it prescribes a very rigid regime of farming by dates: not exactly as nature intended. it may well do more harm than good. the debacle over nitrates does little to endear the commission to eu citizens. a similar fate must not befall the groundwater directive.
mr president, on a point of order, last night we held a debate in this house based on two parliamentary questions tabled by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in relation to the eu delegation to the pops conference to be held in punta del este next week. the questions and the resolutions supporting them were put to the commission and the council. despite the fact that the council had adequate notice, no-one from the council turned up last night to respond to these questions. the commissioner himself was here. i would like an explanation as to why parliamentary questions tabled by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were ignored by the council.
rapporteur.– mr president, this oral amendment is merely to ensure that there is consistency and accuracy in the section on morocco. i propose that the end of paragraph 13 should read: ‘notes that a moratorium on the death penalty exists in morocco and calls on the moroccan authorities to abolish the death penalty’.
rapporteur.– mr president, as rapporteur, my advice on this particular section is not to accept an oral amendment in relation to the baker plan. i think the pse group has a balanced amendment in this case – i.e. amendment 15 – and my advice is to accept that one.
rapporteur.– mr president, in my view this text improves the accuracy of the report and as rapporteur i am happy to strongly support it.
rapporteur.– mr president, i fear i am attempting the impossible here, but we will see how it goes. i am proposing an oral amendment as a compromise amendment to amendment 8. if it were to be accepted paragraph 131 would read: ‘recognises the impact of mass rape in making women and girls vulnerable to contracting hiv/aids; urges the eu to ensure that the provision of full medical attention be made available immediately to all women and girls who have been raped;’. (applause)
in writing. i welcome the broad thrust of simon coveney’s report but i do not think it goes far enough in terms of recognising the urgent need for particular support for women who are the victims of violence and sexual abuse. the report denounces the impact of mass rape and recognises that victims of acts of sexual violence are put at risk of contracting hiv/aids. but it fails to offer these victims any immediate care. because of this i support amendment 8 which calls for such victims to have access to condoms, to prevent further spread of infection, and access to abortion in the event of unwanted pregnancy. the report should also recognise, as is demanded in amendment 9, that the only way we can ensure there is a proper response to acts of sexual violence is by giving full respect to reproductive health rights in the first place. as far as i am concerned, sexual and reproductive health is a human right; a right that should be recognised fully and guaranteed to every man, woman and child in the member states and throughout the world.
in writing. i support the pse group’s resolution (b6-0275/2005) and the joint resolution on the commission statement on the situation of roma in the eu. in 1984, parliament first acknowledged that ‘gypsies still suffer discrimination in law and practice’ and called on governments of the member states to eliminate all forms of discrimination against roma. twenty-one years on, it is unfortunately the case that this conclusion endures: roma and travellers still suffer discrimination in law and practice. the recent establishment of the european commissioners’ group on fundamental rights, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities, as well as the stated commitment of president barroso to address the social exclusion of roma and travellers, are positive developments. these must now be followed by concrete actions by the commissioners’ group and the relevant directorates-general. the commission has to address the social exclusion of roma and travellers in member states, candidate countries and other countries outside the current borders of the union, and act, as a matter of urgency, to curb the widespread anti-roma and anti-traveller sentiment in europe. at the very least, this means full and correct application of council directive 2000/43/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin.
mr president, last week we celebrated the first anniversary of the largest enlargement to date of the european union. the accession of the ten new countries hailing from the former soviet bloc and yugoslavia, the baltics and the mediterranean is, undoubtedly, the most significant and historic event in the history of the union. these countries – for years many of them locked in the iron grip of moscow – have joined the most unique and successful experiment in the history of democratic politics. general de gaulle dreamed of a united europe from the atlantic to the urals. given the circumstances at the time – the iron curtain, the cold war and the military polarisation between east and west – few other than de gaulle could have believed that would happen. however, it is happening and it should be celebrated. i wish our friends the ten new countries well. i come from ireland, a country whose economy has been transformed from little more than that of a poor, third world country into one of the strongest in europe, courtesy of european assistance through membership, and i wish all the same benefits and success to our ten new neighbours. integration has succeeded in overcoming age-old differences between european countries. the political and economic reunification of our continent is a victory for the spirit of europe, one of which we should all be proud.
member of the commission. mr president, the committee wishes to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of the murder of mr mccartney. it fully understands and admires the determined efforts of the mccartney brothers in the pursuit of truth and justice and wholeheartedly supports their endeavour. although the commission, as the mccartneys certainly understand, cannot interfere in the judicial investigations and proceedings of the member states, it is taking the opportunity today to pay tribute to the courage, dignity and search for truth and justice on the part of the mccartneys. the commission can only express its admiration for the strong and courageous stance taken by the mccartney sisters in their campaign for justice, she would like to express her solidarity with the mccartney family and is certain that once the irish court process is complete the truth will come out. while there can be no freedom without security, there can be no security without justice. the rule of law is the cornerstone of democracy and fundamental rights, and the mccartney sisters fight not for revenge but for justice. the commission fully supports their case.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, i would like to begin by welcoming the representatives of the mccartney family here this evening and conveying the best wishes of the european parliament to all the sisters – catherine, paula, gemma, clare and donna, and indeed to the late robert mccartney’s partner, bridgeen. there is a welcome to them here in the european parliament. on behalf of mr poettering, the leader of the ppe-de group, on my own behalf, and particularly on behalf of my colleagues in the irish delegation, i would like to pledge our fullest support to them in their courageous, dignified and determined pursuit of justice for their brother robert’s brutal murder. as my party leader in dáil éireann, enda kenny, said, robert mccartney’s vicious beating and stabbing to death was ordered by a commander in the belfast brigade of the provisional ira, following a minor dispute between the commander’s uncle and the group with which mr mccartney was socialising. robert mccartney was in the wrong place at the wrong time but this was no minor bar room brawl, as some have disgracefully attempted to portray it. his brutal beating and stabbing was a serious and savage attack, which bore all the hallmarks of a politically motivated ira murder. it was perpetrated by up to 12 killers, a significant number of whom are known members of the provisional ira. initially, sinn féin’s alex maskey vehemently denied ira involvement but, two weeks later, having spoken to the family, sinn féin’s gerry kelly issued a statement on the matter and they accepted ira involvement. this killing was ruthlessly supervised and forensically covered up by men announcing that their activities were ira business, by men who proceeded to intimidate the 70 witnesses to the crime and their families, first forbidding them from calling an ambulance on the night in question, as robert mccartney bled to death before their eyes and his colleague lay seriously injured. then they warned them not to cooperate with the authorities. such is the level of fear and intimidation of the witnesses that the code of silence surrounding the event has still not been broken, nearly four months after robert mccartney’s death. in tonight’s motion, we are calling ‘on the leadership of sinn féin to insist that those responsible for the murder and the witnesses to the murder cooperate directly with the psni and be free from the threat of reprisals from the ira’, or indeed to cooperate with the ombudsman of northern ireland. the appalling offer by the ira on 8 march 2005 to shoot dead the perpetrators of this awful crime is abhorrent and barbaric and has been met with incredulity in the civilised world. to even suggest that amends might be made through such summary justice indicates what few lessons, if any, have been learnt by the ira over the past 30 years. it shows how little understanding this group has of the basic tenets of the rule of law in a democratic state. the rule of law sinn féin advocates, and the ira enforces, is a brutal regime of terror, intimidation and violence. one parallel to, and incompatible with, democratic society. one so grounded in illegality and criminality that it constitutes an affront to the very concept of justice and leaves its victims, such as the mccartney family in this case, powerless and without redress for their terrible loss. but these brave women, the mccartney women, through refusing to be intimidated in their four-month campaign for justice for their brother and their partner, have achieved more to highlight the residual thuggery and criminality that has existed in northern ireland since the official ira ceasefire than either of the two governments or the political establishment in northern ireland have managed to achieve in the last decade. today we, the european parliament drawn from 25 member states, add our voice to that of the irish government, the british government and the united states congress, in support of the mccartney campaign for justice. by bringing the killers of robert to justice, there is a bigger statement being made in terms of a total rejection by all decent people of this continued wanton killing, maiming and violence. it is a call for real peace. i hope we will be in a position to help robert’s family if the necessity arises, if none of the witnesses, nor indeed the ira or sinn féin themselves, are brave and honourable enough to supply to the police service of northern ireland or the ombudsman the information necessary to institute criminal proceedings. we are not in danger of creating a precedent: this case is unique. for the first time the provisional movement has been shaken to the core by the depth of reaction from within its own community. they can now put their words into action. this case is a test of the movement’s sincerity, of its repeated disavowal of criminal activity in all its forms – or are they just more weasel words? time will tell. i commend the resolution to the house.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this resolution on the murder of robert mccartney. on my own behalf and that of the alde group, i warmly welcome the sisters and partner of mr mccartney to the european parliament in strasbourg today. i should like to commend their courage and tenacity. they have raised their case in belfast, dublin, washington dc and now in the european parliament. i have no doubt but that we, in parliament, will give them the strongest possible support in their pursuit of justice. the circumstances of robert mccartney’s murder shocked very many people. but the forensic clean-up and subsequent intimidation of witnesses and others outraged all of those who genuinely believe in justice, in truth, in the rule of law and democracy itself. while i know that the original intention was and still is to bring mr mccartney’s murderers to justice, that search for justice has influenced the political landscape in northern ireland. it has dared to challenge those who thought of themselves as untouchable. it has forced the spotlight into some of the darker places where violence and intimidation still hold sway. people have whispered about this for years, but those of us who did not experience it listened with incredulity and, i have to add, a certain amount of disbelief. however, it is now out in the open. while i cannot say that it will never happen again, i can say that finally the veil of secrecy has been lifted. it is not possible in such a short time to give any meaningful background to the situation in northern ireland, but like any area where there is conflict, it is always a complex situation. those who would have us believe that in northern ireland we have the good guys on one side and the bad guys on the other, do not accurately describe the situation. i fully endorse the statement that violence and peace cannot coexist. but in order to finally eradicate violence and promote peace, there must be genuine willingness to enter into dialogue and to share power, and there must be an acceptance that the past cannot dictate the future. when we look to the future, we look to women like the mccartneys, who refuse to bow down to intimidation and who want, more than anything, to live in a peaceful society. unfortunately, when it comes to the peace process, we do not see too many women around the negotiating table; but when it comes to peace-making and peace-building in communities and neighbourhoods, it is often women who take the leading role; women who have an understanding that peace is not just about political statements, or documents signed or agreements negotiated. such agreements are just the framework for peace. the real work of peace-building takes place in everyday interaction: in schools, offices, clubs and community centres, where women play a hugely important role. with regard to peace funding, the eu has enabled many people of goodwill to contribute to peace-building in northern ireland. i believe that the eu can make a further contribution today. if the police service of northern ireland is unable to bring a prosecution, the eu could grant a financial contribution from the budget line for aid for the victims of terrorism to assist the mccartney family to mount civil proceedings in its search for the truth.
on behalf of the ind/dem group .– mr president, as an irish mep, i hesitate to speak on this matter. since the tragic killing of robert mccartney, i am concerned that politicians have pushed their own electoral agenda in the context of the recent elections and have lost sight of the real point of all this. i am, therefore, going to speak personally. a man has been unspeakably, brutally murdered and the perpetrators have been able to walk freely and have not yet been brought to justice. his fiancée, bridgeen, his children, his family, are caught up in a fight at a time when they should be free to grieve and work towards closure. justice, it seems, is eluding these brave people and so they have come to us. but what can we offer besides more rhetoric in this already over-opinionated debate? we can give them what they ask for: financial assistance in their struggle. funds will pay the legal bills and that is necessary. it will not, however, bring them justice: for this, i call on those present on that fateful night to have courage and testify against those who committed this crime. i ask this, not as a member of this parliament, but rather as a mother who cannot imagine the pain this courageous family is going through. it is this parliament’s duty to help financially. it is our obligation to seek peace for northern ireland. but, as a mother, i mostly beseech those with information on the thugs who perpetrated this act to come forward. this family needs justice to get closure and completion of this saga and to grieve in peace. they are in my prayers.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i should like to join with my colleagues in welcoming the mccartney family to the chamber to witness an unusual, unprecedented debate. anybody who hears the story of robert mccartney and what happened to him cannot but be struck by the malicious intent of those who were there. we can all, at times, excuse an occasional argument or even an accidental slap that might be given. but this was the sequence of events that took place that night: robert mccartney was specifically targeted and people were instructed to take him out and kill him; those same people were then instructed to ensure that no emergency services could assist him and told to clean up the bar, eliminating all signs of any involvement or any link to any individual through forensic evidence and so on. we could have excused an accident or mishap, but that kind of premeditation and malicious intent cannot be excused. the women of the mccartney family – paula, catherine, donna, gemma, clare and bridgeen – who are ordinary women in every aspect of their lives, have done something extraordinary. through their pain, sorrow and search for justice they have united people across countries and political divides, including those who have had no involvement in any form of politics but can empathise with the pain and suffering of a family. it is now incumbent on those who have influence in northern ireland and those who have influence on these members of the ira and other political organisations to give them up to the police service and the prosecution; to allow for justice to rule and prevail. we speak about democracy on the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war. we speak about justice and remembering victims. there have been thousands of victims in the conflict of northern ireland. many of them from all communities have not received justice. now is the time for people to stand up and show their true democratic principles; to show that they believe in the rule of law; that they believe in justice and equality and parity of esteem for all people in all families. it is up to us, in parliament, to ensure that if this is not done at a political level in northern ireland, we can assist them on a legal level.
mr president, i agree with all speakers here today who have said that there is no argument for paramilitary justice. nobody in parliament today has condoned or justified the terrible act, but all have called for justice. there is no need for the ira to continue to exist. sinn féin has asked the ira to cease its armed policy. it should do so immediately. that will help to prevent the recurrence of such acts as the murder of robert mccartney. however, right now there must be an insistence that those who cold-bloodedly murdered mr mccartney and those who witnessed it should cooperate fully with the police service of northern ireland. equally, there is an urgent need to moderate the language of politics in northern ireland. in recent times the mask has slipped and parties who advocate peaceful means have used inflammatory language, which exacerbates rather than calms the situation. there is a phrase often used in northern ireland politics: ‘we all jump together’. some of those who took that leap of faith in earlier times were not rewarded for their courage and now find themselves more on the periphery than holding the middle ground. now others stand on the edge of that very same precipice. they have the responsibility and the duty to jump together.
mr president, i too should like to welcome the mccartney family members to the chamber. i salute their courage and bravery in endeavouring to get justice for their brother. robert mccartney was brutally murdered by a gang of thugs and criminals masquerading as republican political activists or ira freedom fighters. these people should be brought to justice. they have murdered an innocent man and severely injured his colleague. they have compromised the good names and reputations of those people in their own political family who were witnesses to, but not involved in, this murder. the entirely innocent people who were accidentally present at the time of the murder have been obliged to remain silent about these events: in effect to become accomplices in the crime of these thugs and criminals. the guilty people continue to walk the streets of their community and to associate with their political family despite the pretence of disowning them by the sinn féin leadership. its political and parliamentary leadership has shown that it is unable or unwilling to control them. their continued freedom raises a fundamental question concerning sinn féin and the ira movement: who controls the direction that this movement takes in the future? is its future to be shaped by people who genuinely subscribe to the irish peace process and to the resolution of the problem in ireland by democratic means, or are sinn féin and the ira controlled by people who are prepared to tolerate and even support criminal acts of murder? i know that these sorts of acts do not only happen on one side of the community, unfortunately. there are other groups involved in paramilitary activities, beatings and shootings. they too must be condemned. but the leadership of sinn féin and the ira has the power and influence to bring the thugs and criminals who murdered robert mccartney to justice if it so wants. so far it has shown itself to be more interested in political posturing and media manipulation than in getting justice for the mccartney family. why is it that the mccartney family has to go to washington, brussels, strasbourg, london and other places to get justice when, in its own community, it is not being properly represented by the people who say they represent it – sinn féin/ira? why is the family looking for justice here? why is sinn féin/ira not helping it on the ground to get justice within its own community? yesterday an article was written by jim cusack in the sunday independent. if half or one-third of what he wrote is true, then sinn féin/ira has a serious problem about controlling what is happening in the communities it says it represents. the time has come for gerry adams and martin mcguinness to produce the people guilty of this crime and oblige them to submit themselves to the will of the courts. they should not be allowed to hide behind the cover of the political movement they claim to support. i support this resolution and the proposal for the family to be given full funding for any legal fees it may incur if it goes to trial.
mr president, i, too, want to welcome and salute members of the mccartney family, who continue their crusade for justice outside ireland and within it. on 30 january, their brother robert was murdered by members of the irish republican army in belfast. this is not the only brutal murder that has, unfortunately, taken place on our island in the last 30 years; but this one has caused many across the world to sit up and recognise the activity that is continuing in ireland seven years after the historic good friday agreement. the facts are sobering. a savage murder was ordered outside a pub in belfast less than four months ago, carried out by psychopaths, witnessed by 70 to 80 people. a clinical clean-up operation – which took some time, i might add – was then ordered by local ira leaders. since then, there has been such intimidation within the community that it has resulted in silence: people live in fear of reprisals if they speak out. in this house, we have representatives from the political party sinn féin who, by their own admission, have a special relationship with the ira and that is why we refer to them. both the irish and british governments describe them as two sides of the same coin. sinn féin is not and has not been doing enough to bring justice to this horrid affair. it is also a fact that sinn fein’s influence within communities in northern ireland can bring about justice in this case. but what we hear are words and more words of support instead of actions on the ground. robert mccartney’s sisters continue their quest for justice and we must support them here in this house where we can. we need to end impunity where it exists: outside the european union, where we have influence; but more importantly, within the european union and in this case in a community in northern ireland. this parliament can help by raising the issue and also potentially by providing finance, as stated in the motion for a resolution. i support both those ideas. we call on the council and the commission to make financial assistance available if a civil case proceeds. we hope that will not be the case and that the police service of northern ireland will bring a trial successfully to court, with the cooperation of those who have influence within communities in northern ireland. the week before last, we in this parliament adopted a resolution on human rights. its essence was the need to end the scourge of impunity in parts of the world. we must lead by example and do the same in belfast.
mr president, the sole purpose of this resolution is to achieve justice for the mccartney family – whom i welcome here this evening – by insisting that normal policing and judicial procedures be allowed to take their course in relation to the murder of their brother robert. it is claimed by sinn féin that the murder of robert mccartney was not politically motivated. that will not be known for certain until this matter is heard in a court of law. it is a fact that the forensic clean-up of the murder scene, the intimidation of witnesses, the offer by the ira to murder the murderers and the refusal to cooperate with the police service of northern ireland are politically motivated and cannot be separated from the murder itself. it is also a fact that the so-called ira is the most active and politically driven perpetrator of violence and intimidation in northern ireland, that it engages in widespread criminality in northern ireland, in the republic of ireland and also in britain and does so to enforce its rule of law and to fund its activities. until that criminal activity is stopped definitively and the iron grip that the republican movement exercises on various parts of northern ireland is ended, there is little possibility that ordinary citizens can hope to have their human rights vindicated. the european convention on human rights, echoed in the new european constitution, enshrines the right to life, freedom from torture, no punishment without law, freedom of expression, the right to an effective legal remedy and the right to liberty, security and a fair trial. they are all denied by the ira, by word and by deed, on a regular basis. indeed, sinn féin, by its continued integral link with the ira, is just as guilty, in spite of its claims. by seeking to spread the blame to criminals generally for the monstrous murder of robert mccartney, the gue/ngl resolution and the amendment by the verts/ale group naively allows sinn féin and the ira to wash their hands of the known complicity of the members of the ira before, during and after the murder and should not, therefore, be supported by this house. i would urge the house to support the joint resolution.
mr president, i too welcome the mccartney family here this afternoon and offer them my support in their efforts to get justice in the appalling murder of robert. in my view the death of robert mccartney was not in any way politically motivated. the people who murdered him should be obliged to face judgment in the courts and to serve their sentences in prison. the fact that most, if not all, of the people involved in this murder are either members or supporters of the ira or sinn féin in no way excuses their actions. their failure to give themselves up for justice endangers the reputation of sinn féin and of its leadership. even more importantly, the failure of sinn féin’s leadership to ensure that justice is done in this case undermines the cause of irish republicanism. nobody should ever be allowed to use the cloak of irish republicanism to hide the murder of an innocent person when the motives have no political justification whatsoever. like the great majority of the people on the island of ireland, i have always aspired to a united ireland. i have always thought of myself as an irish republican, as indeed do the mccartney family. i am therefore sickened that anybody should expect that their republicanism can be used as an excuse for violent and despicable acts of murder, particularly in the case of robert mccartney. this is a view which i believe is shared by the vast majority of the irish people. the cause of irish republicanism must be completely separated from common criminality now and in the future. the actions and statements of the sinn féin leadership over the last few months have failed to make any significant progress in getting justice for the mccartney family. it is still not too late for the sinn féin leadership to rectify this failure, provided it has the commitment to do so. as the leaders of the largest republican party in the six counties, and in particular after last week’s election, they have a duty to separate the cause of irish republicanism from the acts of common criminals. they also have an obligation to the mccartney family, who have a right to expect justice for the murder of robert. this appalling saga has already gone on for far too long. i commend this motion to the house.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, first i would like to congratulate and commend mr hegyi on his work on film heritage and on the competitiveness of related industrial activities. my opinion on film heritage and the competitiveness of related industrial activities allowed me to investigate the functioning of the european film industry, an industry that produces films accounting for 25% of the european market. unfortunately, approximately 65% of the films produced are commercial productions outside the european union, mostly in the united states. obviously, the european film industry does not have a competitive advantage in this case. frankly, this is not good enough. while i have no problem with american culture or with the american film industry, i believe it is important that we protect european culture and improve the european film industry in any way we can. if one looks at the success of the industry in india, bollywood is a case in point of where it can be done and has been done. one means of tackling this problem is through the provision of state aid. i welcome the fact that the commission cinema communication identified the importance of state aid to the film industry as a means of promoting culture. also, the extension of the validity period of this specific state aid to june 2007 is evidence that it provides a high degree of stability and much-needed legal certainty to the industry. for the end users, this ensures the continuation of vital support schemes such as the irish film board. i have stipulated to the commission that higher levels of state aid should be considered in the areas of culture and difficult films. any reduction in state aid to the film industry would be unwarranted and undesirable. state aid as a means of promoting culture is important because it means national films are shot nationally and not offshore. this helps to maintain nationally specialised skills and expertise required for audio-visual creations. i believe that all film-making should be determined a cultural activity, thereby exempting it from the notion that it is an obstacle to the single market. i very much welcome the fact that the commission has indicated a willingness to consider high levels of aid in the next review of the cinema communication. i hope this indication will soon be turned into application.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i am the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism on the general rules for the granting of financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport networks and energy. in this capacity i can clearly state that under no circumstances should the eur 20.3 billion currently being proposed by the draft regulation be reduced. it is imperative that this level of funding be viewed as an absolute minimum. the commission needs to give an assurance that this proposed level of funding will meet the needs created by the higher levels of community cofinancing, which can be as high as 50%. we need to be realistic in order to meet the objective of advancing these projects, particularly when the number of priority projects has increased from 14 to 30. undoubtedly there is a high level of expectation on the ground for clearer rules on the granting of aid to ten-t projects. i strongly believe that cofinancing is essential. member states need to stand up and take responsibility for their respective infrastructures. european funding alone cannot achieve this for them. much of the funding will be directed towards major cross-border projects, but i do not believe that this can be effective without all countries concerned signing binding bilateral agreements. where proper parallel funding has not been made available by a member state, the commission’s inspection role and its ability to recover funds need to be strengthened. the commission, after all, is the custodian of the community budget.
in writing. fianna fail and the uen group today do not support amendments regarding:-(a) the deletion of a new “sufficient” classification introduced and agreed upon in the council during the irish presidency in june 2004 in annex i and(b) the erasing of the distinction between inland and coastal waters, again agreed upon in council by the irish presidency. under the existing directive of 1976 (76/160/eec), the majority of member states support the "sufficient" classification as this classification establishes realistic, enforceable standards with a minimum legally binding requirement that will apply to all bathing waters in all member states. in addition, i feel that it will serve as a stepping stone and strong incentive to work towards achievement of the “good” or “excellent” classification. with regard to classifications for coastal waters, we support the distinction between it and fresh waters, as coastal waters have lower permissible levels of contamination than those for inland waters.
in writing. i welcome this report and the rules for the monitoring and classification of bathing water quality. we cannot afford any weakening of quality standards. i support the environment committee's rejection of the proposed quality category being "sufficient" rather than proper. i also reject any lowering of quality standards for inland waters compared to coastal waters. ireland achieves about 98% compliance with the current directive, but it is clear that not enough is being done to ensure proper standards in water quality, and environmental standards generally. last month's ruling of the ecj that ireland is in breach of the eu's main waste management directive represented a damning indictment of the government’s environmental record. the commission has also confirmed that ireland has yet to report on the implementation of european landfill legislation for the years 2001-03, and the commission is now considering launching more infringement proceedings. from this shabby performance we have more than enough evidence that standards of environmental controls are far from good enough and i hope today's adoption of the maaten report leads to further pressure for improvement.
i thank the commissioner for his answer. from numerous media reports, it appears that the commissioner with responsibility for trade is calling for restraint in this affair and has made a plea to avoid what he calls protectionist thinking. on the other hand, the united states government has accepted a request from its textile industry to investigate the sharp increase in the import of textiles from china. the us commerce secretary carlos gutierrez has promised a swift and fair inquiry. he said: ‘we want to do it quickly and we want to do it right’. what is so very different about eu textiles as to lead to what appears to be a very prudent approach by the commission, rather than the swift and fair approach of the us?
thank you for that reply, commissioner. in ireland we are obliged to have a referendum. a former colleague of mine, a minister, who was campaigning in a previous referendum was told: ‘if you don’t have those lorries moved from the end of the cul-de-sac, i am not voting.’ that is the extent of the engagement of some people in this campaign. the two biggest issues around the constitutional treaty are firstly, that 60 million europeans died in the first half of the last century because we did not have an integrated europe and secondly, not only governments and parliaments but civil society were involved in the formation of this constitutional treaty. the institutions of this union have spoken. never mind the cynics! you have a job to do: go out and sell it and give member states every assistance you can to sell it. i would ask you to get a task force together of top-drawer implementers of communications to assist you in that.
commissioner, will the ngos that misuse public funds – and i am thinking, in particular, of an ngo in ireland whose job it is to work in the developing world, which put up ‘say no to nato’ signs during the last nice treaty referendum – face any sort of sanctions or censure from the commission, particularly if they are using public funds when they should be looking after third world issues and development issues of that kind?
thank you for your answer, commissioner. the natural effect regions will see some hope in the reply you have just given. it is important to stress that these regions, despite the progress, are still structurally and infrastructurally handicapped. it is illogical to use different strands of the cohesion policy to tackle their socio-economic problems. they are looking for exactly the same conditions as those regions that left objective 1 in 2000. that is a just case, so i thank you for your answer and i see some flexibility there for the regions.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, the government of sudan and the janjaweed leaders, like musa hilal, seem singularly immune to western criticism. having burned the people of the darfur region of sudan into graves and refugee camps, they have created a militarised zone – a terror zone – that separates sudan, north and south. in all our peace initiatives, we must be constantly aware that, for the perpetrators of terror, peace is a threat that they will resist with all their might because peace will mean eventual conviction in the war crimes courts. agreements are for the honourable; the janjaweed are not honourable. they will not cooperate. people are suffering. we cannot wait for a cooperation that will not come. we will have to supervent hilal and those like him.
mr president, i have to say that i am shocked by the council statement here today that not a single body of the council has made any effort whatsoever to reach a common position in relation to our stance in the world bank, or indeed to use the clout we clearly have financially and in voting terms on the world bank; despite the fact that every head of state recently signed up solemnly to the european constitution, which declares that we want to end world poverty, and despite the fact that each member state has signed up to the millennium development goals. we still have states that welsh on their commitments to reach the development aid target of 0.7% of gdp, which has been in place for decades. my own member state solemnly declared last year at the united nations general assembly that it would reach the 0.7% of gdp by the year 2010. this year, it has announced that it will not reach that figure, not because we do not have the money, but because the government wants to spend the money on winning the next election! it is clear that the governments of the member states of the european union are more interested in trade than they are in eliminating poverty. they are more interested in securing their position in the world trade organization than they are in securing the position in the world bank to pursue the objectives of the union. could i ask that this house move from making declarations to establishing an ad hoc committee so that we can prepare a common position for the european union and the world bank and then drive the council and the commission to adopt parliament’s position on this issue?
in writing. i fully support the cercas report as a meaningful step towards a 48-hour working week in all 25 member states, from 2010. it will eliminate the current opt-out, and introduce strict new conditions on how "on call" time can be counted towards the 48-hour week. working time will still be calculated over a 4 month period, with exemptions available to calculate over 12-months - subject to stronger control through collective bargaining. proper regulation of working time is a cornerstone for social europe. it reconciles work and family life and addresses an important health and safety issue. it is totally wrong that an opt-out is available on health and safety law, and important that it is ended as soon as possible. the greatest risk is that this opt-out is extended to all member states which would render regulation of working time redundant, resulting in a race to the bottom. the implementation date of 2010 gives both sides of industry time to negotiate new agreements that take account of the 48-hour week. the european trade union confederation (etuc) fully supports the report as offering a fair deal to workers across the eu.
in writing. in the working time report and every work related report, i look to see if the largest work force in europe, home carers are included. they aren't. this is particularly sad because a document that deals with the amount of hours someone works in a week applies to them more than any other group of workers in the eu. we could and should have looked at issues like "on call time" in relation to home carers. this is more than a missed opportunity. it is discrimination and exclusion of people who work long, long hours, people who are always on call. can we resolve that we will examine the situation of carers and that we will include them in our recommendations on work in future, and that we will no longer discriminate against this important workforce which is already discriminated in the area of pay.
i would like to point out to the president-in-office that this target of 0.7% was agreed 35 years ago and to date only five states, four of them eu states – four out of 25 eu states – have met this target of 0.7%. by 2025, 2 billion more people will be on this planet, 90% of them born into the third world. what sort of world will we leave to the next generation? we have just spoken about the second world war. what are we building up for our children and grandchildren? what solid steps will the council take to see to it that member states meet their obligations?
i wish to thank the president-in-office for his very comprehensive reply. this work is very encouraging. could he indicate whether this will continue, with additional collective responsibility, into the future? this type of cooperation is vital at present.
on a point of order, i apologise to the president-in-office and to you, mr president, that i was not here for my question. i was at another meeting at the winston churchill building and by the time i got back here, the question had lapsed.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, despite the failure of the cancún conference in september 2003, multilateral trade negotiations in the wto are still defined by the doha programme. the agreement reached in august 2004 by the general council of the wto has managed to relaunch these negotiations, and i welcome this. from the outset, let me say that i also welcome the report and i congratulate the rapporteur on his work. i am particularly pleased that the proposal on behalf of the committee on international trade is a considerable improvement on the original document, notably in relation to how to include developing countries in the world trade system, and the importance to be attached to the liberalisation of certain non-essential services and, importantly, to the solutions being proposed to reduce agricultural protection. the compromise amendments adopted in committee have, in my opinion, improved this text. this report is a fair analysis which takes due account of european expectations and interests in the context of what is bound to be a difficult round of negotiations. in the context of the wto talks, i am concerned about agriculture and, in particular, about the future of small family farms in my own country, which, let it be said, are the backbone of irish society. there can be no question of changing the european agricultural model or the luxembourg agreement on cap reform. as far as european farmers are concerned, they have signed up to a reform which i consider to be cast in iron and which remains valid until 2013. they have signed up to a reform that was moved to bring the cap into line with the wto. they have signed up to a deal that involves tremendous upheaval in the sector. our farmers need policy stability in order to plan for the future of their businesses and the livelihood of their families. there can be no question of going back on any of those commitments. i must say, commissioner, that i am encouraged by what you have just said in this regard and i believe that you will rigorously defend our interests here. finally, i think that we all agree that the wto is the best forum in which the rights of all states – rich and poor, developed and developing – can be protected. i also believe that multilateralism is the way forward and i am pleased that the commission has maintained this position. i look forward to the hong kong conference in december of this year.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commission president for coming to the chamber to respond to the motion tabled by some of my colleagues. i was at the conference of presidents meeting which took the decision that there was no substance to the allegations being presented, and that it was right that president barroso should respond by letter. the conference of presidents took on board his opinion, as expressed in that letter, that there was nothing to substantiate the allegations made. be that as it may, i do not deny members and colleagues the opportunity to table this motion of censure. the fact that it makes them look ridiculous, takes up our time and diverts us from dealing with really important issues that affect the everyday lives of european citizens obviously does not matter to them. it matters to me. we have a situation in which conspiracy theories, innuendo and general misconceptions, lies and myths are told about what goes on in the ‘dark corridors’ and ‘cubby holes’ of the european commission. we are told we should be afraid of the danger lurking behind us, and that things are happening that we do not know about, when the reality is that every single decision taken is accountable. every single action taken is not taken in an exclusive format or by one person, but goes through a host of motions and a series of individuals and organisations before a final decision is reached. what we are really witnessing today is opportunism of the most crass and basest order. it is an opportunism which seeks to create a myth that ‘there is danger lurking out there’, predicated on the basis that we are the white angels who shine the light into dark corners. that is what the authors of this motion would have us believe. however, the reality is that they are trying to prevent positive action being taken, and to prevent real debate taking place on issues of concern to the people of europe. most importantly of all, this is an attempt to undermine a project in progress for the good of all the peoples of europe. as we have seen with the most recent enlargement, it is one which continues to progress. finally, mr president, i would like to thank president barroso for coming to the chamber. i apologise for being a member of a conference of presidents which may have put you in the embarrassing position of thinking you would not have to come to the chamber. however, i know that in the future you will recognise it depends very much on who is asking the question, and then you will decide whether or not you should come. (applause)
mr president, i take this opportunity to convey my deepest sympathy to the families of five young teenage girls who tragically lost their lives two days ago in ireland in an accident involving a school bus in which they were travelling. i wish those still in hospital a speedy recovery. this matter is relevant to us obviously because of the horrific tragedy involving the loss of these young lives, but also because we have dealt with the use of seatbelts in public transport many times in this house with, i have to say, only limited success. the deaths involved in such tragedies are often preventable, but we have to convince our member states that when it comes to seatbelts, our children’s lives are not negotiable. in ireland there is no legal requirement for seatbelts on school buses. indeed, as a money-saving device, companies providing school transport under government contracts are obliged to permit three children to use a two-person seat. i ask you, mr president, to convey our sympathy to the bereaved families and the families of those injured. to the irish government, please convey our concerns on the safety of children using school transport in ireland.
madam president, i should like to welcome commissioner kyprianou here this evening and say that we look forward to welcoming him to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we have been inviting him for over six months and apparently he is far too busy to join us, but he would be very welcome. some weeks ago president barroso assured us that he would ‘lisbon-proof’ all legislation coming from the commission. he mentioned reach and the services directive. could i ask that commissioner kyprianou bring this particular piece of legislation to his attention and immediately ‘lisbon-proof’ it? there is far too much unnecessary red tape involved in it and it will place a very onerous and disproportionate burden on smes in particular. i agree with the basic principle behind the proposal before us that consumers should not be misinformed, but i have serious doubts about the commission’s approach, especially in relation to nutrient profiles and implied health claims, i.e. articles 4 and 11. this legislation smacks of the nanny state and verges on the patronising in its current form. consumers bear the ultimate responsibility for their own food choices. almost no foodstuffs are inherently bad. food consumption patterns are what is important. the emphasis should be on encouraging healthy lifestyles and healthy diets, not on censoring information, as is the case in relation to the so-called nutrient profiles in article 4 of this proposal. having consulted with nutrition experts from the university of ghent and from trinity college dublin, i am convinced that the concept is not grounded in solid science and will have the adverse effect of depriving consumers of a great deal of information. reference intake values are the accepted scientific norm today and should be used to ensure that labelling is clear, unambiguous and meaningful; they would greatly facilitate consumer choice, not least as a tool to fight obesity. having made this point, i fully support the proposal to delete article 4. as a fallback position, i support the proposal put forward by the ppe-de group and others at committee stage and now resubmitted by the alde, namely to decouple article 4 by requiring a study into the scientific basis of nutrient profiles before making a decision on their implementation. this is a very sensible option. all nutritional health claims should be scientifically substantiated according to scientific best practice. in particular, i would refer to the inclusion of a positive list of allowed nutritional health claims. i question whether this is legally sound, and it is a poor approach to legislation. it could lead to certain claims being banned by default because legislators were not aware of them at the time of drafting. such an approach does not allow enough flexibility to take account of new products placed on the market. in addition, just last month the food supplements directive, which had a positive list of allowed substances, was found to be illegal by the advocate general in luxembourg. it is not yet clear what impact that will have on this nutritional health claims proposal. i would like the commission to clarify this particular matter this evening. will this proposal for a regulation also end up in a fourth reading in luxembourg?
madam president, i wanted to know if the commissioner could answer my question on the positive list, please, and whether it will survive the fourth reading in the european court of justice.
madam president, we know what this is about: basically it is a technical debate. i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i suppose the technicalities of this debate will go right over the heads of many farmers. their concerns are rather more basic. i wish to address the issue of the technicalities. it seems sensible to simplify how we operate the funds. i have some concerns about an over-bureaucratic system coming into place because, at the very least, there would be more documentation required of member states. however, if it provides for more transparency and accountability for the wider citizens of the european union, then it is a positive development. yet i am always concerned that having more documents does not lead to transparency. in this case i hope it does. to return to the issue for farmers, their concern, in particular with the new single farm payment regime, is to receive prompt payment of what they now call the ‘cheque in the post’, to have it delivered on time and within their production year, because it comprises such a huge proportion of their farm income. they also have concerns, which i would share, about the very severe penalties which member states might impose on them for breaches of the regulations that are not deliberate. that has to be avoided. i wish to address specifically the issue of rural development. i know the commissioner believes very strongly in rural development and, indeed, believes that it is the future for agriculture policy, a view shared by the oecd. the difficulty for the european union is that while we have grand plans for rural development, we do not have the budget to fund those plans. this is an area of great concern. it is for this reason that when we all discuss the financial perspectives for 2007 to 2013, we must remember the commitments we made to farmers in the past in relation to the single farm payment, and indeed to rural development, and we must put our money where our mouths are.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to intervene at this point; i realise there are a lot of votes to get through. it is important to note the uniqueness of this particular resolution. it relates to an agreement between both sides of the rail industry, employers and unions, and is the first such agreement representing 95 per cent of the workers and the employers in that industry. strictly speaking, parliament has no direct role in the matter; it is a matter for the council to approve. but i am hopeful that if we can get overwhelming support for it here today the council will, as a matter of urgency, adopt it without further delay. it is an important initiative and we should encourage not only the rail industry but also other sectors of industry to adopt this kind of social partner agreement on working conditions for employees.
in writing. in my capacity as a member of the transport committee, i 100% support the koch report which seeks to make it compulsory for all vehicles - minibuses, buses, coaches, light commercial vehicles and lorries - to be equipped with seat anchorages and head restraints. the implementation of such safety systems in all vehicles will come into effect from 2006 onwards. i think this directive is well over due. it is deeply regrettable that for many transport users in ireland, as i am sure in other member states, this is a measure that has simply come too late. unfortunately, too often the stimulus for improving road and transport safety comes from devastating lessons that are hard learned from the past.
in writing. in view of the recent tragic events in meath in ireland in which five young people lost their lives in a school bus crash, there is an urgent need, amongst other measures, for quick progress on the fitting of safety belts and child restrainsts on all coaches, including school buses. this directive should be approved and implemented as quickly as possible. any requests for temporary derogations must be kept to an absolute minimum and should be scrutinised thoroughly by the commission. implementation of this directive should also be linked with full compliance with directive 2003/23/ec which provides for the compulsory wearing of seatbelts on coaches, where fitted, from may 2006. there must be no repeats of last monday's accident.
mr president, the anti-european camp wants the constitutional ratification process to be discontinued. i disagree fundamentally with that approach. countries representing half the population of europe have said yes. it would be undemocratic to deny those who have not yet ratified the opportunity to do so. ironically, the values-driven union provided for by the constitution is needed to address the concerns of many of the ‘no’ voters in france and the netherlands. if some member states need more time, then let us have a new deadline; but in the interests of our peoples and of europe’s future in the world, the constitution must not be shelved. i would suggest that france and the netherlands might consider establishing national conventions of europe, to consider exactly what kind of europe they want. when the european council meets next week, it – and the commission – will need to bear in mind that driving forward with market reforms without strengthening the democratic, social and environmental dimension of europe, will feed the current crisis, and indeed, that strengthening nationalism will destroy europe.
mr president, the ‘lost at sea scheme’ was introduced in ireland by the irish ministry for the marine in 2001. it was an eu-approved scheme under council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002. the purpose of the scheme was to compensate people who had lost fishing vessels over a number of years previously. unfortunately, because it was not advertised widely – it was only advertised in marine magazines – many of the people who could and should have qualified were not allowed into the scheme. i made representations on behalf of several of those people, but to no avail. the irish ombudsman has described the scheme, as introduced by the irish government, as seriously deficient and grossly flawed. it is quite obvious that the scheme will have to be revisited and that is the reason why i am asking – in the event of the irish government making an application for the scheme to be reopened because it is so flawed – that the european union support the reopening of such a scheme to allow people who missed it to enter.
on behalf of the ind/dem group .– mr president, in rural ireland, family farming is the basis of community life. through successive anti-farming policies, we are seeing a dismantling of irish family farming and, as a result, of our rural communities. everyone wants rural development, but in the context of beleaguered irish farming, the only rural development i welcome is one that supports family farming, while enriching rural communities with complementary social, educational, transport and employment projects and infrastructure. but, looking at this rural development plan, which seeks to promote the complementary activities, while reducing and taking money from the primary activity – family farming – i can only say the plan is crazy, and in the irish context, will destroy the very rural communities it purports to enrich. instead, let us return to a bit of sanity, where we understand the value of farming, where farmers farm and are rewarded for their labours by a fair price for their produce. farming is one of the oldest, most basic and most essential activities. in ireland we seem to think that all the so-called ‘better jobs’ are the future and unwisely we starve out family farming. we are mad. we need both. let us have the high-tech jobs, let us even bring the software development company to the rural area, but let us have cows, sugar beet, and furrows of maize and orchards of apples in the fields around it. then we will have a future.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, in the explanatory statement, the rapporteur states that over half of the population of the 25 member states of the european union live in rural areas, which account for 90% of eu territory. agriculture and forestry are the cornerstones of land use and the management of natural resources, and they serve at the same time as the basis for economic diversification there. i am in total agreement with the rapporteur. however, i would add that in my country, ireland, small and medium-sized family farms are the very backbone of irish society. down the years they have given us security of basic food supplies, they have contributed to protecting the environment, and they have promoted rural interests. i would add that one in eleven people in the workforce in ireland is employed in the agricultural sector. i would add that the agri-food sector is a vital player in the irish economy, accounting for 8% of gross domestic product and furthermore that 7% of irish exports, and about one fifth of ireland’s net foreign earnings, come from traded goods from irish agriculture. also i want to emphasise that in 2004 irish agricultural exports exceeded eur 7 billion. in a word, agriculture in ireland is a vital national interest. continued rural development in my country is therefore vital. on the key issue of funding of the agricultural fund for european development, i have some misgivings, because unless there is unanimous agreement in council on the financial prospectus for the period 2007 to 2013, this whole project could find itself in limbo land. in view of recent developments, notably the massive rejection of the constitutional treaty by the french farming community, who, it must be said, have been one of the main beneficiaries of the common agricultural policy down the years, perhaps the commissioner could tell us if, in the event that there is no rapid agreement on future financing, there will be a ‘plan b’ for rural development only last week the agriculture council adopted conclusions on the european union forestry action policy. the council of ministers acknowledged, inter alia, that the economic, ecological and social relevance of the forest sector in the eu and the contribution that forest and forestry can provide to the lisbon objectives of sustainable economic growth and competitiveness, as well as to the göteborg objectives of safeguarding the quantity and quality of the national resource base. consequently i do not support the commission’s approach to forestry in its rural development programme. its proposed premium period of ten years is far too short and its proposed grant rate is too low. in fact the commission proposals represent a reduction on existing grant rates. can we not do better? because we need to do much better than this. contradictory approaches are almost impossible to explain to the non-initiated general public, and, in my opinion, completely undermine our collective credibility. finally, let me record my opposition to the proposed minimum expenditure levels in the commission’s proposal. i believe that they are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that they do not take account of flexibility to respond to diverse rural needs. in fact i would prefer no prescribed minimums at all.
mr president, i noticed that mr kirkhope did not describe the ira, and nor indeed did mr allister, as a fundamentalist roman catholic organisation, and they were quite right not do so. i think it would be a grave error to start labelling organisations here as one religion or another. what they all share is a desire to achieve political ends through anti-democratic efforts. that is the basic definition in my view of terrorism: using violence in an anti-democratic way to achieve a political objective. i would remind mr kirkhope and others that the experience in northern ireland and everywhere else is that by labelling sections of society you actually increase alienation and you drive recruitment to the organisations that are engaged in terrorism. we must respond to terrorism politically, economically and socially. of course we have to defend our democratic way of life when it is threatened by violence, but we have to do so in a way that does not deny or reduce basic human rights, not only for society in general, but for those sections of society which are alienated from society at large. we must engage with all of our citizens and seek to integrate them. we must seek to ensure that they achieve in life what they set out to achieve, and not be alienated from us. it is extremely important therefore that the measures we are proposing here today are proportionate and justified, and are effective, not only in dealing with terrorism, but also in seeking to ensure that terrorism cannot thrive. we must therefore do more than simply put security measures in place. my final point is in relation to bioterrorism. could i ask those who seek to heighten fears about bioterrorism to recognise the reality of terrorism. the preferred weapons of terrorism are a few ounces of semtex in a holdall, a motor car, semi-automatic rifles and handguns - look at the experience of terrorism anywhere in the world - these are the weapons that are in use. it is not sarin gas which creates the spectacular death and destruction which the terrorists need for the 6 o'clock news.
mr president, i want to congratulate mr böge on his report and especially his highlighting of the importance of investment in research and development with a view to meeting the lisbon agenda objectives. the report also recognises, and rightly so, that education and training should be prioritised in the funding proposed and i believe that the allocation of resources to the development of human capital is vital for long-term investment in the union’s future. i do not share the rapporteur’s recommendations relating to the common agricultural policy and i cannot support his suggestion to introduce co-financing of the cap. this, as i have said on numerous occasions, is something that has never been, is not and never will be acceptable to those of us who are committed to defending farmers with small- and medium-sized farms and our rural communities. we should be under no illusion that in time co-financing of the cap will inevitably lead to its renationalisation.
thank you, commissioner, for that response. i understand that the irish government has recently responded to a letter from the commission requesting clarification on the role and financing of public service broadcasting in ireland. could you tell us what that response was and what was your initial reaction to the letter?
madam president, on a point of order: since i am in the house and the commissioner has taken such a long time over his replies, would it not be possible, as a courtesy, to allow two more questions? very few questions have been answered.
mr president, there is a gap between the eu rhetoric on equality, inclusion and diversity, and the reality of experience across the member states. this report rightly asserts that minority rights issues have not been high enough on the eu agenda. the report also reflects the massive amount of work required in this area if we are to bridge the gap between rhetoric and reality. in my limited time i shall add my voice to two specific calls that the report makes. a critical requirement in asserting and protecting minority rights is political will. in this regard i echo the report’s call for speedy progress on the council framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. also essential is the availability of comprehensive, reliable and disaggregated data on discrimination. the report correctly identifies this area as one meriting immediate action. i congratulate mr moraes and i welcome the report’s assertion that equal treatment is a basic right and not a privilege, that human rights are indivisible and cannot be bought or sold. the challenge for all of us is to put in place mechanisms, and crucially resources, to realise these goals. (the speaker spoke in irish)
mr president, i believe that how we treat our minorities reflects the strength of our democracy. it has to be said that no member state is free from defects when it comes to giving substance to universal human rights. unity in diversity is not just a slogan. it has to be put into effect because it is essential to human progress in our member states and, i would argue, to the very survival of the european union. mr moraes has worked hard and produced a well-balanced and very good report. in ireland we have still not achieved the progress that we need to achieve in relation to women’s equality, travellers’ and gay rights. i know too that other member states fall far short of granting full citizenship to minorities. i know that this is a particularly sensitive issue in latvia and estonia. however, this report does not seek to be censorious; it attempts to approach these problems in a spirit of solidarity and indeed of seeking help for all states to comply with european values. i would urge all members and political groups of this parliament to support this. i believe it is an excellent report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group .– mr president, the question facing us is how we are going to manage the rights of our eu patients to go to another member state for medical treatment and have their costs reimbursed now that our courts have handed down these rights to them in the context of our single market. i thank mr bowis for his excellent report. we expected nothing less from him. this is a first step on that road and is a response to the impressive communication from the high level reflection group, which was set up in response to the ecj judgments. however, i agree with our rapporteur’s view that a sense of urgency is missing from the communication in relation to policy and spending priorities. we are also at risk of being driven by the courts rather than the statute in this most important of areas. i would favour the minimum legal framework necessary for both providers and purchasers of cross-border healthcare, but we should not underestimate the complexity of the task. as we know, health policy and health budgets are competences of the individual member states: this is strictly subsidiarity. so the financial implications of these new patient rights need structuring, not least at the level of health insurance cover, which varies greatly throughout the 25 member states from demand control to supply control systems. the attempt to deal with this issue in the general services directive is ill-advised and i welcome the commission’s change of mind. that directive is about service mobility in the eu, not customer or patient mobility. it is particularly not about customers who will not be paying their own bills, customers who may need aftercare and follow-up treatments when they return home. our public likes the option of travelling to another eu country if treatment is not available at home: the obvious first choice. treatment may not be available for certain specialities, or there could be an unacceptable delay in accessing the required treatment. large-scale patient mobility should be unnecessary if a member state discharges its responsibilities with a well-run, efficient health service. in 2002 ireland was forced to set up the national treatment purchase fund to reduce its ever-lengthening waiting list. in that year alone, almost 2 000 irish patients were sent to the uk for treatment. we are adept at exporting our patients. another 650 opted to go to member states on e112 forms that same year – difficult as those forms are. but only one patient opted to travel to ireland for elective treatment. by comparison, 137 000 opted to travel to spain. these figures highlight the urgent need to manage this right to access treatment throughout the eu. our patients, doctors and taxpayers deserve to have it managed properly. they want and expect to be offered sound guidance on policy and procedure. i should like to ask the commissioner what the next move will be and when. does he accept that a properly structured service is urgently needed in this area?
mr president, listening to the debate this morning you would imagine that, not only is there a european crisis, but that europe does not have any answers or responses to the will and the wishes of the people. whilst this is a difficult time, and whilst there is a lot of uncertainty, this is also an opportunity for us to reflect on what we have achieved so far, and to find a proper and more appropriate way forward. unfortunately, that way forward will not be found by trying to analyse why the voters in france and holland said ‘no’. there were many diverse reasons for their ‘no’ vote. at the same time, what do we say to the voters in spain who voted in favour? do their votes count for nothing? those people who try and tell us that we must put off this whole process and stop and listen to the voice of democracy are totally ignoring the voice of democracy as represented by the nine other countries that have already ratified the european constitution. i think it is important now that we give leadership to europe. that leadership must come not only from this house, but also from the commission. i congratulate president barroso on his stance immediately after the vote in trying to encourage the governments to keep their nerve, to take a long-term vision, to use the same kind of ideology and the same kind of selfless desire to see an improvement for all the people of europe that the founding fathers of the european union showed when europe rose from the ashes of the second world war. the people within europe today did not vote against more jobs, did not vote against better social protection, did not vote against better trade, did not vote against better community development programmes, did not vote against giving more aid to the developing world, did not vote against protection for our environment, did not vote against ensuring sustainable development in fisheries and other industries. they voted in favour of all of these things because they wish to continue supporting them. it is now up to the luxembourg presidency, as leader of the council, to find a compromise and to find a way forward at the european council meeting. the best way for us to present this to the people of europe is to say that yes, we have hit a bump on the road, but this is not the end of the european project. we have to remind all the peoples of europe that our best self-interest, as well as our best collective interest, lies in understanding our interdependency, not only in relation to single market economics, but also to our human responsibilities to each other across the european continent.
mr president, in relation to the böge report i speak on behalf of my colleagues in the irish delegation of the ppe-de group: mrs doyle, mr mitchell, mr coveney and mr higgins. we congratulate mr böge on his report and we are happy with its broad thrust. however, i have to register our concerns about the financing of agriculture. we voted with our spanish colleagues, so the onus is on the council and not the member states to meet any shortfall that arises. in the light of a recent reform of the common agricultural policy, the current position of parliament, which would suggest cofinancing, will not be viewed very well by our farmers and rural dwellers. i believe that it sends out the wrong signal, at a time when public confidence in europe is suffering, and that the common agricultural policy is damaged by any mention of cofinancing. we have therefore voted to that effect.
in writing. i voted against amendment 3 because the lisbon strategy was originally based on a tripod of social, environmental and economic issues. in its review both the social and environment legs of the lisbon strategy have been demoted in favour of an eu brand of competitiveness. this is a recipe for social and economic stagnation and environmental disaster. i voted against amendment 28 because it would allow the eu to backtrack on commitments of support to farmers by forcing countries to co-finance schemes such as the single farm payment. irish farmers are already struggling to survive in an economic climate that has been made artificially difficult. it would only increase our farmers’ difficulty.
president-in-office, i should like to point out, in relation to health, that one of the big issues with alcohol consumption is its link to youth suicide. that is a particular problem in ireland. it should be given much more emphasis in our strategy. secondly, in relation to advertising, we are concerned about toys being advertised to children during children's programmes, but we also advertise alcohol to them and are introducing them to alcohol at a very young age and making it acceptable. we need to look at this. perhaps you could give me your view as to whether that should be included in your future strategy on alcohol and the problems related to it.
mr president-in-office, i thank your for that very detailed response. i should like to ask you to take on board the views of those who know more about children in the developing world than perhaps you or i do, and who are concerned about the fact that we are perceived as a union that concentrates more on large infrastructural projects than on children, and perhaps to think more deeply about the needs of children in terms of medical care and other assistance. i accept what you have said, but i would ask you to analyse more deeply the views of those who know.
question 9 by my colleague, mrs mcguinness, is very close to my own, question 11, and again, we are not going to get to another question. i find that very frustrating. on many occasions we wait here and you do not get to our questions. we talk about action plans for the third world, especially with regard to children, but we never hear of any detailed plans or exact initiatives in this area. i know it is very complicated and difficult, but very rarely do we hear any details of what is happening on the ground in these parts of the world and how we are tackling the serious problem of children with hiv and aids.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, unfortunately the credibility of the european union has been increasingly questioned over the past few weeks. rather than trying to construct a new consensus, as mr barroso suggested last week, we should concentrate on strengthening the current european consensus on competitive markets, fiscal discipline and hard currency. sound economics, realism and results are what citizens are demanding and what are needed to continue to build the european project. economic reform is needed to create vibrant economies, as has been proven in a number of cases in europe. if we want enlightened social policies, in the european tradition, we need to reform our economies. the examples are there for all to see. the revised stability and growth pact gives more countries more time to correct excessive deficits and provides more leeway for countries with strong public finances. monetary union requires this level of flexibility, so that more internal market competition can be stimulated. the one-size-fits-all situation was always going to be a problem. however, some countries need to cut back on their budgets and others – like my own, ireland – need to spend more on infrastructure, because they have a deficit, but that is not allowed under the rules. however, giving an inch in terms of flexibility does not mean countries are allowed to take a mile in terms of widening fiscal deficits. enforcement of the rules is the key. there must always be confidence in the fiscal framework that underpins the european union. the recent drop in the euro has been used as a convenient whipping boy for all that has happened recently with the european constitution. the problem is not with the euro. the problem in some countries is that they are avoiding the stark reality that the world economy is changing and will continue to change. today’s world economic order demands a lot more, a lot faster and a lot cheaper. going back to the basics of economics, countries either meet this demand or it will be met elsewhere. there is no point in lamenting over the basic economic principle; there is no point in arguing that we do not have a means of competing with the global economy. we do, and it is the stability and growth pact. however, the failure to enforce these rules has left too many countries stagnating in an economic period that no longer exists. we cannot continue like this, because it is undermining the credibility of the overall emu framework. consequently, this has had broader repercussions in sending a focused message to the citizens of europe about the positive work of the european union itself. this has never been more obvious than it is at present. europe is suffering from a credibility problem and to deal with it we urgently need to evolve from rule makers to economic performers. sound economics, realism and results are what the citizens want, and our job is to deliver.
mr president, 20 years ago an eminent health pathologist warned that she had never examined a cancerous tumour that did not have chemicals from the benzene family in the active reproducing cancer cells. cancer has become the new black plague. in the middle ages half the population of europe was destroyed. they did not know the source of the bubonic menace and were unable to halt it in its deadly tracks. there is no excuse for us; we know where benzenes and other polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons come from. we make tyres with them, but we also create them when we burn waste. the irish government is insisting that a network of waste incinerators, some for toxic waste, be created in my country, thus introducing an explosion of pahs into our water, air, soil, plants and into the cells of irish citizens where the benzenes and dioxins can wreak havoc. let us urgently concentrate on the substantial risk of pahs from sources such as incinerators, especially when those incinerators will burn tyres containing pahs.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr juncker and his dedicated political colleagues in his excellent diplomatic and civil service on the job they have done over the last six months. he has demonstrated, yet again, that it is quality and vision that count in the construction of europe. i would also like to express my admiration for the new member states, for their solidarity and forward-looking effort to avoid the breakdown of the budget negotiations. as has been said repeatedly, they are not the cause of the problems of europe. they in fact give us far more and offer us far more in terms of a peaceful, secure and prosperous future than we can offer them. i would also like to remind the house that 28 states – not 25 – participated in the convention and that at least turkey, bulgaria and romania should be included in any debate now about the future of europe. i believe that if they are going to be full members of this union within a number of years then they have a right to participate in debating what kind of europe we are going to have. today mr juncker gave us a master class in transparency, frankness and humanity. this is the kind of politics that the people of europe are crying out for and i would urge this house to insist that from tomorrow onwards all presidencies and all commissioners meet with the standards set by mr juncker today. my group leader, mr schulz, has launched a five-point european agenda which seeks to kick-start the process of re-establishing the self-confidence of europeans. i would like to ask mr juncker in the remaining days of his presidency, mr borrell and mr barroso, to support that initiative and demonstrate to the people of europe that we have a future together. we must ensure that we do not leave the people of europe to the likes of mr bonde and his ilk in other parts of europe. it would be a betrayal of the sweat and blood of our parents and grandparents and the lessons that they learned from having a divided europe; from having a europe which is locked behind its own sovereign borders, unable to share power and unable to share a future together.
mr president, i was disappointed with commissioner mccreevy’s reply. we need to distinguish between two issues here. the first is the issue of those who invested in lloyd’s and whether or not the british government is obliged to compensate them for their losses. the commissioner quite rightly pointed out that it is an issue that has to be pursued through the uk courts. however, what we are specifically dealing with here is the refusal of the commission to deal properly and in accordance with the treaties in replying to questions from this house. the commissioner is explicitly obliged under the treaties to reply to questions. tonight, yet again, he has refused to provide all the information that was sought as far back as 2003. on another occasion, a previous commissioner indicated that the uk government was unhappy with the commission revealing the information which was being sought by the committee on petitions. since this is a codecision issue – as the insurance directive is a codecision directive – parliament has at least equal right to the information which is available to the commission and the member state. they are not the only ones responsible for the legislation. so i appeal to the commissioner to avoid the ignominy of being brought before the european court of justice by this house for failing to comply with the treaties. it seems to me, commissioner, that in any event that you may end up in court if you do not comply. i do not know british law that well, but i suspect that if this case was in ireland the complainants could force you to produce the information. i think it is entirely unfair to deny this house the information to which it is entitled, and you face the real risk of being brought before the european court of justice if you do not provide it.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i too would like to join with my colleagues in welcoming prime minister blair to the house and thanking him for his contribution and his speech this morning. much as i appreciate that speech, i am somewhat disconcerted by gordon brown’s annual address at the mansion house last night. despite the good words and the good intentions, i have three separate conclusions about what we saw last weekend, what we read in the papers from britain, what we have seen in the news media over the last few days and what mr brown said in his speech last night. firstly, the plan is: dump the common agricultural policy. ensure that any budget changes that are made will be predicated upon getting rid of the common agricultural policy. this is despite the fact that in 2002 there was a unanimous agreement amongst all member states that the cap budget will be fixed for a period up to 2013 on foot of reforms and on foot of sacrifices made by people living in rural areas and people involved in agriculture, including the reduction in the annual budget of cap because there was no cost of living increase or no inflation index allowed for increasing of funding. so therefore what people really need to see is certainty. second, much emphasis is being placed upon the lack of ability on the part of europe to deliver on things like the lisbon agenda and creating more jobs. let us get real about this. europe is as incapable of creating jobs as the british government is of creating jobs. it is up to us as legislators and as rule makers to ensure that the legislation and the regulations that we put down do not impede private industry and private business to give them the right atmosphere, the right opportunity in which to thrive and to grow. and it is ridiculous to speak about how we must do more at european level when at the same time you will not increase the budget that is available to the european union to undertake this work, despite the fact that the numbers of people involved in the european union and the number of countries involved in the european union has increased. i think that if we want to speak about real debate and real engagement then that debate and that engagement must be based upon facts, certainties, not the continuous misconception, myth and innuendo that have been cast about over the last 20 years. last night i heard jeremy paxman on newsnight saying that the reform of the sugar regime in europe was the most disreputable and inefficient form of subsidy given to farmers in europe and is harming farmers in developing countries. on the same report about these reforms we heard the president of guyana, the chairman of the jamaican sugar industry and the chairman of the mozambique sugar industry saying what a disaster these reforms would be for those countries. the president of guyana actually said that they would receive eur 8 million in debt relief because of the fantastic initiative undertaken by yourself and your government as leaders of the g8 with regard to alleviating debt in africa and it would cost them gbp 44 million to try and comply with the reforms that would be put forward. finally, some will say that we are standing on the edge looking into the abyss. as i said to you in london last week, i believe we are standing at the dawn of a new future. you can give the leadership but that leadership requires compromise and consensus. it requires you to bring the other actors together to ensure we have a success. (applause)
mr president, i would like to extend a failte mór to you, mr blair, and to wish to well in your presidency of the european union. we are all aware of the challenges that lie ahead for the european union both economically and socially. i want to support what you said earlier on and i agree with you, if we want to see a maturing and a strengthening of the european social model, we need vibrant economies, that is plain for everyone to see. last week's events, however, saw an unfortunate and heated debate on the financial situation of the european union. some of that debate unfortunately centred around the common agricultural policy. opinion is greatly divided on the effectiveness and the long-term sustainability of the common agricultural policy, but one of its most ambitious aims is to support and sustain the european union’s rural communities, which are under serious threat. we live in a world where half a million people move from a rural environment to an urban environment every single week. in 1970, 63% of the world's population lived in a rural environment, in 2020 it will be 45 per cent. the challenges that lie ahead are great, not just for the quality of life for those who reside in an increasingly urbanised europe. bearing that in mind, i would ask you, mr blair, to concentrate on the urban problems as opposed to dismantling the cap, which hopefully will strengthen rural communities in the years ahead.
mr president, i welcome mr blair and thank him for staying for the entire debate here this morning. last weekend’s political sparring and lack of conclusion to the summit was not worthy either of you, mr blair, nor of mr chirac. where was the tony blair of the good friday agreement, a man of understanding and goodwill, who could bring both sides of an intractable conflict to the table; a man who showed singular courage on the iraq question, regardless of our views of the right or wrong. it may well be good for you and for your image at home, mr blair, to stand up to the french and to play to the residual, historic emotion that finds resonance in british chemistry. but remember the 100 years war in the middle ages: the british came out of it with much less than they went in. fontainebleau was margaret thatcher’s agincourt, when she walked away with the british rebate, and now, 20 years on, that rebate is worth a farthing in the pound of british gdp. yet, mr blair, you are prepared to sacrifice europe’s budget agreement and the european project to continue being the populist servant of mr murdoch and his newspapers. if kohl or mitterrand had been at the table last weekend, we would have had a conclusion. we are politically rudderless in europe and the real crisis in europe is the lack of political leadership. mr blair, you were right to say that we must modernise europe’s social model on the basis of a strong economy and not at the expense of it. it is true that we urgently need to peel back regulation and that china is investing threefold in research and innovation. however, splitting hairs over decimal points on the budget last weekend has put europe’s ambitious seventh framework programme for doubling funding on research on ice. so much for the lisbon mission. what about the common agricultural policy, mr blair? what exactly is your intention in relation to that? do you understand the income crisis that exists among the vast majority of our farmers across the europe of 25? have you forgotten the unanimous agreement on radical reform of the cap that you personally endorsed and your government signed up to only 18 months ago?
mr president, i wish to ask you to raise urgently with the united kingdom government the issue of its failure to properly and fully carry out its obligations under the euratom treaty and european directives on nuclear safety. persistent failures at the bnfl sellafield nuclear facility put at risk the health and wellbeing of those who work there, their surrounding communities and those living on the east coast of ireland. recently, it was revealed that, over a period of eight months from august 2004 to april 2005, 83 000 litres of radioactive material containing 20 tonnes of uranium and plutonium leaked unnoticed from a broken pipe into a containment tank. this is not an acceptable level of safety in an industry where safety failures can have catastrophic outcomes.
mr president, approximately 58 000 people die each year in the european union as a result of suicide or self-inflicted injury. this figure is far higher than the number of people killed in traffic accidents. the commission’s directorate general for health and consumer protection published a paper last year on the state of mental health in the european union. one of the important points to emerge from the research was that, with the exception of ireland, the elderly have the highest suicide rates in the population. suicide rates increase with age. since the number of people who reach old age is increasing, the absolute number of suicides is expected to rise. we know that the majority of suicide cases are linked to mental health, particularly depression. one might also think that there would be a relationship between suicide and major economic factors such as unemployment and poverty levels. the commission’s paper acknowledges that, even though standardisation of most mental health instruments has been completed through many studies, definition of mental health states is one of the most difficult tasks. therefore it is always difficult to interpret any differences. would it now be prudent to establish a central european register for suicide cases so that an eu-wide analysis of data could take place? we could thus try to identify the causes and trends of this terrible phenomenon and see which member states’ best practice could be benchmarked in the other member states.
mr president, africa has featured a lot today in the debate, and rightly so. last saturday, the people of the world – in particular the young people – called on the g8 nations to sort out the economic problems of africa. live 8 was a tremendous success. hopefully, the collective will of the young people in particular will be listened to at gleneagles. however, africa has more than economic problems: it has political and human rights problems. in particular i refer to zimbabwe. mobutu has already been mentioned; we have had amin and bokassa. we now have another dictator in mugabe: not content with the purge of white farmers, he has now turned on the black population, who have been uprooted from the land and are living in hovels with no food. we are now facing another human catastrophe in africa. the united nations wrings its hands, the eu has stood back, but south africa – the model of peaceful ethnic resolution – surely should take the lead. that is why i am heartened by the fact that thabo mbeke has met with morgan tsvangirai, the head of the opposition in zimbabwe. i would like to draw the house’s attention to one statement in particular: zimbabwe’s police chief said yesterday that they must rid their country of ‘the crawling mass of maggots’. what an indictment of his own people. we must act.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, the european central bank fulfilled its objective of maintaining price stability and, in doing so, it managed to steer europe through the many challenging economic and financial developments of 2004. however, the challenges are on-going and they are worrying. the consumers are bearing the brunt of that particular worry. mr trichet, only a few weeks ago you called upon european consumers to open up their purses and spend more, but there is not enough certainty in the current economic climate to facilitate the surge in spending that you call for. i speak for many of my constituents when i tell you that people purchasing houses are worried about whether the interest rate is going down, about house prices going up, when and where, and what the long-term outlook is. they are uncertain as to what the current hike in oil prices will mean, how long the side-effects will last and what to expect in the long term – their future. last week, business confidence in countries such as germany was on the increase. however, while benefiting from a fall in the euro, they were turning the other cheek within days to be hit with record high oil prices. companies and consumers are finding it difficult to gauge whether their prospects are good or bad. such an environment does not cultivate consumer confidence, domestic demand or domestic growth. the predominant risk to growth is the high energy prices. for businesses and consumers dependent on oil, that is detrimental. our dependency on oil is proving too costly in every respect. we need to look at the long-term energy issue from the perspective of economic viability and sustainability. dependency on any single resource leads to market vulnerability. real energy alternatives are needed to combat this. let us take the reform of the sugar sector, for example. countries such as ireland are to be badly affected by the reform of the sugar sector. however, we need to take initiatives both nationally and at european level to counteract the inevitable negative impacts on these reforms. irish and european industries need to be assisted in turning a declining sugar industry into a profitable alternative energy source, such as biofuel. there are many fledgling industries, such as the rape-seed oil industry, that need to be financially promoted and supported. such measures, mr trichet, will assist in creating economic stability, environmental sustainability and consumer confidence. all policies are interdependent and no economy should have a higher rate of dependency on any one energy source and no amount of increase or decrease in the interest rate can change that fact.
mr president, i welcome the commission and mr trichet. i shall confine my remarks to the maaten report. that the euro may suffer from a popularity deficit in some countries in the eurozone should come as no surprise. there are two main reasons for this, neither of which has anything to do with the lack of a communication strategy. first, the perception that the introduction of the euro has resulted in increasing inflation in member states has done serious damage to its image, even though, according to official figures, only 0.2% of the increase is attributable to the euro. however, this macroeconomic average disguises large price increases in a long list of everyday items such as coffee, vegetables, bread, hairdressing and parking meters, largely due to opportunistic marking up or rounding-off during the changeover period. second, our citizens’ attitudes to the euro reflects the economic situations in their own countries and their insecurity about their futures, pensions, jobs for their children and many other issues. whilst the euro can help promote economic growth, it cannot do that on its own without sensible fiscal policies and sound economic management in each member state. we urgently need to focus on economic reform, especially in countries with unacceptably high unemployment and abysmal growth rates, in order to deliver on the lisbon promises and not just come out with the same old lisbon rhetoric. the new president-in-office, tony blair, in his speech to the european parliament – and what a marvellous production that was; obviously the diplomats had got at him, or it, since the summit – rightly focused on this as a priority and on the illiberal so-called european social model, which protects the privileged and does nothing to create jobs and investment or increase economic growth. any pr or information campaigns will be an uphill struggle, a waste of money and time, unless they are in the context of sound economic management. the euro will just continue to be the scapegoat for member states’ own failures. when it comes to the stability and growth pact on which emu was founded, i trust that, under the revised and hopefully robust pact, the lack of even-handedness in chastising errant member states will be a thing of the past. the credibility of our single currency and its public image and acceptance depend on all member states adhering fully to it and the rules being applied evenly under the stability pact. it is no coincidence that the euro has been fully accepted in my own country, ireland. it is true that we had a very successful changeover programme but, more importantly, we have 4% unemployment, less than half the eu average, and our economic growth is approaching 6%, three times the eu average. we are very willing to help new member states with their changeover preparations. we already have twinning arrangements in place with cyprus and malta. in conclusion, the emu and the euro are a most successful pan-european project for trade, travel and price transparency, and overnight the euro has become an international reserve currency. the euro can be the icing on the cake of sound economic management, but no amount of propaganda or spin can ever sell it on its own.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, we have been warned by the world health organisation that global cancer rates could increase by 50% to 50 million new cases by 2020. with cancer rates across the world growing at this phenomenal rate, citizens are depending on governments for help, protection and information. phthalates, as we now know, are used in large quantities. in some cases, a proportion of up to 45% is used to increase the pliability of toys or childcare articles made from plasticised material. i support the legislation, but before welcoming the compromise package agreed between the representatives of the european parliament and the council, which goes further by extending the ban of concentration in toys and childcare articles to children in general – as opposed to the original wording referring to children under three years of age – we must first obtain clarification as to the exact nature of the risk posed by dinp, didp and dnop to children. i note that there are divergent opinions as to the danger they pose and would appreciate clarification to that effect as soon as possible. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr trakatellis, on the balance of this report and support the general call for more labelling and information for the consumer. i also agree that more research is required to take account of the exposure of children to risks from sources other than toys. in addition, we should certainly be researching into restrictions on the marketing and use on the european market of dangerous substances to which newborn babies, children, pregnant women, elderly persons, workers and other high-risk sections of the population are heavily exposed. in conclusion, we should also be encouraging the production of safer medical alternatives and encouraging their markets as they become available.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, at the outset i would like to pay a personal tribute to the rapporteur, mr rocard, who has had a very difficult task in trying to find compromises and agreements on this. however, it also saddens me to say that there have been many times when i have listened to the debate on this issue both in the committee and here in the chamber and it seems that we are totally unconnected with the reality of what is happening outside these walls. innovation is the very key, the very engine that will drive our economies. when people speak about ensuring that other people can use software patents, they seem to think that everybody can come up with these ideas themselves and do not need any protection or grounding in those ideas. however, from what we see from some of the people proposing some of the amendments and from some of the lobbying that has taken place on this issue, they simply want a free-for-all: no protection within the european union, and what would that lead to? that would lead to american companies, japanese companies, or other companies patenting the very ideas that european software developers, european innovators, have come up with and forcing those same european innovators to have to buy them back. patents are not a sword. patents are a shield. they are there to defend ideas. we should ensure that the rules and regulations that we set down guarantee that those innovators have those protections and have those rights. some of the speeches in the chamber here and some of the lobbying material i have received over the last few weeks on this issue concern protecting small and medium-sized enterprises. i shall give you one example: in the innovative computer technology sector in ireland, there are 100 00 jobs, 62 000 of which are in small and medium-sized enterprises. they fully support the common position on this issue, and that is why we would urge all members to think with their hearts, but most importantly with their minds, about what protection they would like to see if they have ideas. this is not about harmonisation; this is more about mutual recognition of 25 varying and different regulations in the member states to ensure that small companies, small innovators, can be guaranteed legal certainty and financial certainty with regard to the protection of their ideas and the promotion of them.
mr president, software programming is of enormous importance to my constituents in ireland. so much so, i have received literally bags of correspondence asking me to vote one way or the other. understanding the nuances and repercussions of our decision is certainly not an easy task. today, what we are talking about, to put it simply, is the ownership of ideas. in software, the great ideas of yesterday are the building blocks of the great ideas of tomorrow. these ideas can be used by all to further the science and to drive progress. one of the beauties of the software industry is that a lone programmer can sit down and write an interesting program. he can give it to others in exchange for a fee or he can put it on the open source domain where everyone is free to use it and to add to it. by its nature what he has done is straightforward and millions of people do exactly what he has done. that is what has driven innovation to date and has propelled forward the information society and the state of the art. how much innovation do you think will occur if that lone programmer needs to contract a team of patent lawyers? if we here tomorrow decide to add patentability to software, programmers all over europe might be breaking the law without even knowing they were doing so until it was too late. if we allow patents, how much of the creativity and freedom to think will be stifled by the fear of infringement of one of the hundreds of thousands of patents that will exist? patents that are registered or bought will control the very tools the programmer must use to exist as a programmer. i urge members to support every amendment that retains freedom from patentability. this will give us the strongest position when we negotiate with the council.
mr president, this is a complex and technical issue and i wish to thank the rapporteur and, in particular, the shadow rapporteur from my group for her work on it. anyone who has been subject to the lobbying from both sides in this debate will have heard convincing arguments for and against the common position proposed. i have a number of points to make in the brief time available. firstly, it should be stressed that the patents directive is not proposing the introduction of a new patents system into the eu, but instead harmonising and bringing consistency to patent offices throughout different member states. whatever your position on patents, you must agree that the current situation, in which 25 national patent offices have no consistent approach, does not contribute to an integrated and functioning common market moving forward. however, it is true that in recent years the software and it industries in the eu have been thriving under the current position. so why do we need a common approach? smes in particular seem to be split on this issue. some people have decided to create the impression that this is an issue pitching the large multinationals against small smes. this is not the case from my experience. smes very much fall on both sides of the argument, some wanting to protect their ideas and inventions and others fearing a patents minefield with the proposed common position. nobody in this house wants to vote for a situation that will in any way harm the future thriving of smes. i want to focus briefly on two key issues of this directive: firstly, the definition of what we propose to allow patents on. we are not proposing the patenting of software as in the us. that should be stressed. if amendments need to adopted to clarify that point, then so be it, although the current wording is not bad. copyright is there to protect software. the second key question is the issue of interoperability, and the mccarthy amendments in this area are worth supporting. we must ensure that the equipment or networks required by multiple users to allow innovation are not withheld from the market. in particular, this is the case for open source and the open source movement that has been so successful in recent years. in conclusion, people are beginning to take a very pessimistic approach at this stage and, on balance, the overall proposal is likely to be rejected tomorrow. that will spell a very serious failure of the institutions to find common ground and agreement on what is a very important area for the european economy generally.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development.– mr president, the full objectives of the european fisheries fund are commendable and clear: firstly, adjustment of fishing effort and better protection of the marine environment; secondly, aquaculture processing and marketing; thirdly, promoting collective interests, such as measures intended to protect aqua, aquatic fauna, fishing ports and the development of new markets; fourthly, sustainable development of coastal fishing areas. there are, however, several real problems. first of all, while the budget looks sizeable at eur 4 963 million, it represents an increase of only eur 0.7 billion on the previous budget for a seven-year period from 2007 to 2013. secondly, we have ten new member countries, so there is no real increase. secondly, i am disappointed that this report ignores an amendment adopted by the committee on regional development, that 25% of the community financial contribution should be set aside for axis 4: the sustainable development of coastal fishing areas. those are areas under threat. the statistic is quite startling: 8 000 jobs are lost, on average, every year in direct fishing. the coastal fishing areas are the most peripheral and are under threat. what is needed is a fishing policy joined up with the regional policy, and there is scant reference to this in the report. several amendments from the rapporteur proposed grant aid for the replacement of fishing vessels, the upgrading and modernisation of fishing vessels, but no percentage limit has been set aside for that. if we go down that road, the bulk of the fund will be swallowed up and the key objectives of the fund will not be realised. it should be the responsibility of the member states, subject to the approval of the eu, to assist in the purchase, modernisation and up-grading of replacement fishing vessels, but subject to the eu. what we need is to protect and enhance fishing stocks. the emphasis, as the commissioner said, has to be on sustainability: protecting the aquatic environment so that this will happen, protecting the existing fishing communities that are so under threat. finally, we must enable fishing communities to diversify.
mr president, i welcome the excellent report by mr casa on the european fisheries fund. it correctly identifies the key policy objectives and the means to achieve them. in ireland, aquaculture has long been recognised and identified as having a critically important socio-economic contribution to make in our coastal communities. i am, therefore, particularly pleased at the important provisions that will allow diversification into aquaculture. i am pleased that a number of elements in the commission’s proposals concerning small-scale coastal fishing, and aquaculture investments in particular, have been amended in committee. these amendments will seriously contribute to achieving the overriding objectives of the fisheries fund. i do not approve, however, of certain mandatory elements in the commission’s proposal, notably the requirement that socio-economic measures must be included in national plans. i believe that the application of the subsidiarity principle would be more appropriate. today, more than ever, there is a vital need for subsidiarity. i, therefore, particularly welcome the fact that it would be up to each member state to set its own priorities and to decide where and how the funds will be spent. finally, we must all ensure that the negative bashing of the common fisheries policy stops and that this fund is presented to the european electorate as something positive; indeed, it must be presented as something the sector can fully and wholeheartedly identify with, something that will allow the development of the sector, something that will contribute to a better future for fisheries, not least for the fishermen and women on the west coast of ireland whom i represent.
mr president, first i want to pay tribute to mr dimitrakopoulos, a name which i have become familiar with in recent months. he has worked extremely hard to get this report right, seeking compromise from all sides to create a report that i think represents the views and aspirations of the vast majority of this parliament. that is not an easy job when it comes to iraq. one of the positive aspects of this report is the recurring theme of the need for us all to look forward with iraq; concentrating on what can be achieved as iraq moves ahead into the future and not constantly referring to mistakes and decisions made in the past. the rapporteur has not allowed this report to be hijacked by those who want to rehash the debate on the basis for war in iraq and the legalities surrounding that decision, or lack of them. this is a valid debate but it adds nothing positive to this report at this stage. instead, the report concentrates on what the eu's role will and should be in the future, assisting the new authorities in iraq. many issues are dealt with; i want to refer to three of them. first, in relation to political support, i was glad to hear mr brok referring to the visit of representatives from the transitional national assembly to this parliament recently, and it was a welcome event. they called for assistance, support and help in relation to the drafting of the new constitution in iraq, which is something i think we should do wholeheartedly and enthusiastically. primarily, we need to ensure that there is full participation of all groups in the drafting of that constitution. second, in relation to security, we should not forget that, as we speak, there are european citizens in iraq trying to provide security in difficult circumstances. we need to look forward to see what the eu can do collectively. to that end, i welcome the fact that we are going to see an eu delegation in baghdad in the near future. i also welcome the rule of law and police training mission, which will add considerably to the security situation in iraq, and the new call for a new un security council resolution on iraq, which is outlined in detail in the report. that is a brave new call. finally, we should not forget our human rights principles, despite the very difficult and extreme circumstances that continue in iraq, particularly in relation to the death penalty.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, in the words of nelson mandela, ‘like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not natural. it is man made and can be overcome and eradicated by the actions of human beings’. thirty thousand children a day die as a result of extreme poverty. we must look into our hearts and pose the question that is on everyone’s lips at present: do i, do we, have the will to make poverty history? we have the cash, we have the drugs, we have the science, but do we have the will? that is the main question to be posed here today. millions of people all over the world are trapped in bitter, unrelenting poverty because of largely man-made factors: a questionable global trade system, demands from prosperous countries for large amounts of money to service debts. the gap between the rich and the poor has never been wider. malnutrition, corruption, aids, malaria, conflict, illiteracy and suffocating bad debts are crippling the poorer nations of this world. as the commissioner outlined, progress is being made in africa and we must remember that, but a lot more needs to be done. a recent g8 meeting agreed that debts owed by the world’s poorest countries to the world bank, the imf and the african development bank would be partially cancelled – usd 1 billion over ten years. it is a small amount, but it is a step in the right direction. however, an awful lot more needs to be done. it is imperative that bad debt relief be organised so as to ensure that corrupt african leaders do not rearm themselves to bolster highly questionable regimes. we must make sure that we in europe do not rearm them. the cancellation of all debt can only be effective if international aid is continued at a sustainable level. the european union donates the most aid at present and it remains at the forefront in guaranteeing the full implementation of the millennium development goals, including the commitment to contribute 0.7% of gnp per annum. i would urge all wealthy nations to affirm their commitment to fulfilling their aid obligation within a reasonable and realistic time frame. the recent worldwide live 8 concert spearheaded by bob geldof displayed global support for making poverty history, as did the 200 000 people who took to the streets of edinburgh in advance of the g8 summit that starts today. we witnessed both young and old expressing a very strong view. this parliament, other parliaments and politicians are often accused of ignoring what people really want. the people have spoken on this issue and we must act – and act decisively. as the g8 summit gets under way at gleneagles in scotland today, let us bear in mind some words of wisdom from the much respected nelson mandela: ‘[...] overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. it is an act of justice. it is the protection of a fundamental human right, the right to dignity and a decent life’.
in writing. i agree with the general approach of rapporteur dimitrakopoulos on eu-iraq relations which contains a serious and realistic assessment of the present situation in iraq, including a great concern over the deteriorating security. the report also incorporates key pes demands for the eu and its member states to promote a new un security council resolution on iraq which would lead to a decision on "substitution of foreign troops in iraq by a un peace-keeping force", the withdrawal "to be progressively implemented following a clear timetable." i consider that amendments 10, 11, 12, and 13 are vital to a balanced and acceptable way forward.
in writing. i fully support this joint motion. it is totally unacceptable that extreme poverty affects over one billion people, and that in sub-saharan africa about 300 million people live in absolute poverty and millions of people die each year from a lack of health care, clean water, decent housing and adequate nutrition. there is an opportunity for the eu and its member states to demonstrate leadership on poverty and fair trade at the g8 summit in gleneagles, at the mdgs conference in new york in september and at the world trade organisation (wto) ministerial conference in hong kong in december. attaining the mdgs and combating global poverty will require all donors to increase the quantity and improve the quality of aid, make trade fairer and abolish unsustainable debt.
deputising for the author.– on behalf of simon coveney who raised this issue, the question to the council has to be: given what you have just outlined, how effective has all of this been and what other steps might be taken? i do not think anyone is satisfied that the actions so far have yielded any results.
i would like to bring to your attention a constituent who has just emailed me about outrageous fifa charges for world cup tickets for 2006. it may interest you with regard to the london olympics. apart from the price of the tickets, he was charged eur 24 for the use of his mastercard. the tickets only cost eur 149. is it not time to look, as my colleague said, at the fact that so much money can be made by those who do so little?
can i say first say to the minister that i have been very impressed with the british government in its general handling of this issue, and i congratulate you. i do not want to take from that by saying that mr blair really is not making sense when he says he is listening to the people on the subject of the constitutional treaty. the people are not talking about the constitutional treaty. we are talking about the constitutional treaty. they are talking about the developing world. please continue to drive that agenda. you have given great leadership on this issue. please do not drop the ball. after the g8, after your presidency here, we need that leadership very badly.
thank you, minister, for that reply. in april this year, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe rejected by a large majority a draft measure to legalise euthanasia in europe. at the same time, in the netherlands, where euthanasia has been legalised, it is reported that assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia are now responsible for one in 40 deaths. given the rise in euthanasia tourism, does the council agree that the coordination between member states at eu level on this issue would now be prudent, taking into account the principle set out in the treaty that the death penalty is not one which should be available in member states?
mr president, since 1992 life – the financial instrument for the environment – has been the major vehicle of european community environment policy. it comprises three funds, for nature, environment and third countries. the current life iii programme is due to finish at the end of 2006 when a new package, life +, will be introduced as part of our new financial perspective on which we await a council decision. however, it is time for this parliament to make a decision now. do we want to preserve our natural heritage? where our shared environmental heritage is concerned, the financing must fit the policy, not vice versa. it is extremely difficult to quantify in monetary terms the value of our natural boglands, our native species of flora and fauna and natural habitats and public amenities, such as parks and woodlands. importantly, these are common treasures, enjoyed and owned by the general public. the buck stops nowhere if not with us here in the european parliament, where, through the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we are co-legislators with the council. we bear equal responsibility for maintaining and strengthening our efforts to prevent biodiversity loss and environmental degradation. without adequate funding for life +, the positive steps to address these problems since the introduction of the current programme in 1992 will be reversed. important socioeconomic benefits of the programme will also be lost. up to 125 000 jobs are supported in the eu 15 in nature protection related activities. this is a growing sector. mr bowis has told us about the scottish example. the scottish parliament estimates that landscape tourism contributes eur 560 million to scotland’s economy each year, much of this in economically depressed regions. he mentioned the black grouse and the iberian lynx. commissioner, can i ask that in seven years’ time the red squirrel be added to that list of biodiversity successes? it is not just a question of the amount of money. the money must be secure. without designated, ring-fenced funding specifically earmarked for the environment, we will not achieve our environmental policy objectives. the current ‘integrated approach’ to financing environmental policy being proposed by the commission, whereby funding will come from rural development funding and structural funds, worries me deeply and i think it simply will not work. let us be realistic, there will always be something more immediately important than protecting the environment. if properly financed, life + will give us the means to promote our special areas of conservation and thereby promote biodiversity in europe, which is being lost at an alarming rate.
mr president, i would like to remind both mr allister and mr nicholson, and indeed mrs de brún, that the rule of law applies in the republic of ireland and the law will take its course in the republic of ireland in relation to the case they mentioned. could i also remind mrs de brún that she has no right to use the term 'óglaigh na héireann' when referring to the ira. 'óglaigh na héireann' is the name of the irish army, not an illegal irish organisation called the ira. my reason for rising here today is to welcome those participating in the freedom drive to the european parliament. people with disabilities are looking to europe to help them achieve their full freedom and dignity as european citizens. we must listen to them and act, and indeed the commission and the council must especially listen and respond effectively to their legitimate concerns. as i will not have the opportunity to do so later on in the debate, i would like to convey my deepest sympathy to all those in new orleans and elsewhere in the united states who have lost relatives, friends, and indeed belongings, as a result of the catastrophe following hurricane katrina. political lessons should be learnt from this, but they must take second place to europe offering whatever aid is needed and whatever aid is requested by the united states to assist the people concerned.
mr president, i wish to draw the attention of this house to a very practical matter that is specifically of concern to irish beef farmers, but that touches at the very heart of the recent common agricultural policy reforms. throughout the summer months we in ireland have witnessed the direct impact of the importation of cheap brazilian beef into the market. if you recall, commissioner fischler promised farmers less bureaucracy and better market prices. however, what we and farmers throughout europe are seeing is that the price for their product will be set by the lowest-cost producer outside the european union. we have seen what has happened with the textile industry throughout europe. are we going to see something similar happen to the european union's agriculture and food industry? as we approach the world trade talks again in november, i urge the commission to ensure that beef is treated as a sensitive product and that we do not eradicate our own beef producers because of cheap third country imports. i would add that the regulations that europe imposes on its farmers are very strict and much more difficult than those imposed on food produced outside the union and that should be taken into account as well.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, i welcome this report and encourage the rapporteur to keep fighting for as strong a directive as possible. in ireland, as in many other places, we cannot begin to deal with the problem of deteriorating human health or clean up our environment without tackling the problem of old mines and the waste that was left behind when the mines were closed and the mining companies dissolved. in silvermines, county tipperary, a 147-acre, 40-foot high plateau of fine red toxic tailing pond blights the area and in dry weather the dust blows across several counties. mud lagoons dissolve the mercury, arsenic, cadmium, antimony and many other toxic minerals, and channel them via neighbouring streams straight into the shannon river, only metres away from where the water supply for limerick city is taken. animals and, most importantly, people in the area suffer from an incredible range – a tragic range – of diseases, the kind that demonstrate an environmental attack on the immune system. that is a sin from the past; the company concerned has gone and the mess needs to be cleaned up. a further problem is that one of the biggest industries in the west of ireland is a company that ships mining waste into ireland. it is on an island and has its own docks. it brings in bauxite to make alumina. it claims that it is safe and it creates big red mud tailings ponds. that industry wants to expand this year, next year and the year after. the rate of animal death in the area was so alarming that it sparked an investigation a number of years ago, which documented unprecedented animal deaths. it was not uncommon for farmers – and these are not large farms – to have lost 150 animals per farm in the area around the industry. also very startling was the amount of human death from cancer and the amount of learning disability among children. we need very strong … (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now read out the draft declaration on dialogue between the commission and the communities of faith and belief. the treaty of amsterdam, in declaration 11 annexed to it, recalls that 'the european union respects and does not prejudice the status which, under national law, is accorded to churches and religious associations or communities in the member states'. it also stressed the importance of respecting the status of philosophical and non-confessional organisations. continuing a tradition of informal exchanges - a long-established tradition - the commission is conducting a dialogue on this basis with all the churches, religious communities, philosophical and non-confessional organisations, secular and humanist organisations which so wish. this dialogue, which essentially consists of exchanging information and views, is appreciated by both sides. the commission considers that such dialogue is part of its normal relations with civil society actors in the member states. it notes that the draft constitution contains provisions which further specify the relations between the union, the churches and other religious or philosophical organisations. however, as these provisions are not in force, the commission intends to continue with an established practice, which will be developed in parallel with the deepening of its overall relations with civil society. the commission stresses that this dialogue, which concerns religions, churches, communities of belief and civil society, is conducted in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of all the parties. this concerns the organization of regular meetings with the designated interlocutors, which are open to all, within the commission. more particularly, as regards the concerns expressed in recent questions by some members who were concerned about why one or other humanist organisation had not been invited to one or other of the meetings with the president of the commission, which were organised in advance of regular meetings, the commission would point out that invitations to such meetings depend on the specificity of the subjects dealt with. the principle of equal treatment does not mean that all participants must systematically participate in all meetings. the commission and its president are free to pursue certain discussions with specific partners as necessary. so, madam president, the president of the commission had specific meetings with religious organizations in the spring and he intends, of course, to organize a specific meeting this autumn with humanist organizations.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i have to say that i am very disappointed at the commission's statement. it is undemocratic to confine union dialogue to a select number of faith organisations and to exclude secularist organisations, as this new commission has done up to now. we need a guarantee from the commission that the dialogue it is engaging in will be balanced and transparent. i note that the commission has not indicated what subjects it discussed with the religious organisations it spoke to in the spring, nor has it told us what it intends to discuss with humanist organisations in the autumn. we need a guarantee from the commission that this secrecy and backdoor dealing with powerful organisations will cease. agendas and minutes should be published. we cannot accept secret dialogues with powerful religious organisations, some of which do not countenance internal democratic processes or grant equality to all their adherents. this is a critical period in europe's history. it is a time of confusion worldwide, with unrepresentative groups using terror in the name of religion for political ends. dialogue is therefore most important, but it must be transparent dialogue. we must know what the commission is talking about and to whom it is speaking. it also needs to be made clear that europe's democracy is founded on the principle that this union and the parliaments and executives in every member state are independent of all religious dogmas. that independence is the best defence for european democracy and indeed for members of all religious persuasions. it is a principle that has taken centuries to establish and it must not be conceded if we are to avoid a dangerous regression in europe.
mr president, i – like most of the other speakers – would like to concentrate on natural optical radiation, or sunlight. essentially, we need to strike a balance between the health and safety of workers and the temptation to over-legislate – to be too prescriptive – and to override the principle of subsidiarity and attempt a ‘one size fits all’ piece of legislation. in the last session, when speaking on the nitrates directive, i stated that not even the european parliament can legislate for weather across europe and i have not changed my mind. therefore, in this context, given the wide variation of climatic conditions across europe, i consider it appropriate that decisions regarding the health and safety of workers from exposure to sunlight are best taken by the national authorities. there is no comparison between the health and safety concerns as a result of exposure to sunlight, for instance, between a nigerian worker on an irish building site and an irish worker on a greek building site. however, this is not an issue to be ignored, and employers have a real responsibility – primarily, i believe, by means of awareness raising – as regards practical preventative measures, whereby employees who work outdoors can make informed choices about their exposure to sunlight and the need to take practical precautions to protect themselves.
mr president, the commissioner stated that exposure limit values for natural radiation were not deemed to be feasible, and i want to emphasise that point. i want to begin by asking the commissioner to indicate very clearly what the commission's views are on this debate, on the amendments and on what has happened in the various committees. it would have been helpful if we had known your mind before we started, commissioner, because we are speaking in a vacuum. maybe you agree with what this or that side is saying, but we would like to know where you stand. as i see it, we have a good piece of legislation: the framework directive requesting employers to mitigate health risks for employees. none of us disagree with that. we have already dealt with vibration, noise, electro-magnetic fields and now we are faced with optical radiation. i agree with it – it is a good piece of legislation – with the sole exception of the inclusion of solar radiation. we need legal certainty in the field of employment, both for employers and employees. there is no legal certainty in the area of risk assessment for exposure to solar radiation in the workplace, and it is a legal certainty that in a litigious age it will end up as a lawyers' charter, and nothing else. if i choose to spend 10 hours on a beach on saturday or sunday, or 10 hours in the garden at 80 degrees exposed to the sun, or on the golf course in very hot sunshine, all the health authorities would say that it was far too long. what colleagues have said about skin cancer is absolutely true. but if i choose to spend my leisure time taking excess exposure to the sun, then go into the workplace on a monday, say, and i am working on a construction site, or in the fields, in a vineyard, at a sports venue, beside a swimming pool or wherever, and i am already overexposed through lack of personal responsibility at the weekend, is it my employer's duty to ensure that i should not have any extra exposure to the sun on the monday? two hours might be too much in that case, let alone four hours. if i am a red-haired, fair-skinned irish person, two hours' sunshine is the maximum i should get, and with proper coverage from the sun, with a hat, covering up my skin and wearing protection. but if i am a dark-haired, brown-eyed, dark-skinned southern european, i could spend six or seven hours in the sunshine to no effect at all. what do the employers do, line up their employees on a monday morning and check their skin types and whether they have been overexposed at the weekend? or check whether they have been toasted on both sides at torremolinos during the previous fortnight when they were on holiday and say 'sorry, you can't go in the sun this week at all'? it is impossible to operate. we want legal certainty. we want to leave personal responsibility to the individual. yes, we want informed choices from a health point of view – everybody, not just employees, should be informed of the risks to over-exposure – but please, say to president barroso for all of us, that, if he is serious about lisbon-proofing regulation and about less regulation being better regulation, then we do not need this nanny-type regulation and solar radiation must be removed from the directive. it cannot be left to member states, since there is a legal problem, i understand. risk assessment cannot be left to each member state under the terms of framework directive 89/391, because it is a community competence only. please tell us what the options are and where you stand on this, commissioner.
mr president, common sense seems to have abandoned the ppe-de group and the liberals on this issue. the controversy has focused on a single section relating to a requirement to provide information to workers about cancer risks. the media, of course, have had a field day, fed by people who should know better, like ms lynne. i have heard no-one here today deny that overexposure to sunlight is dangerous and can be deadly, yet we have these games being played. the right – both europhiles and europhobes – have used this issue as a wedge in their campaign to renationalise health and safety regulations, ignoring the fact that, in an open, competitive economy, if you do not have european regulation, you will have no regulation. that would inevitably lead to protectionism, which is already raising its ugly head following the french and dutch referendums. provision of information on cancer risks to outdoor workers is not a burden on employers; it is an investment in a healthy workforce.
in writing. i welcome this council proposal and the european parliament report as an opportunity for legal clarity in the area of waste extraction but also as a logical way to combat the very large volumes of waste from the extractive industries. i have noted the importance of balance in voting to-day. it is fundamental that the eu and its member states need to focus on the problem of this type of waste and the protection of our environment via requirements on members states and their industries to have waste management plans; to have inventories of closed waste facilities; to make financial guarantees to national competent authorities for rehabilitation and post-clean up operations; to apply monitoring and management controls to prevent water and soil pollution, all of which are consistent with the "polluter pays" principle. balance is required however when voting on a certain number of amendments which would impose a large and disproportionate number of unwarranted burdens on aggregate industry without benefiting the environment or society.
i thank commissioner reding for her comprehensive reply. i am encouraged by the measures that are already in place for dealing with this threat. i believe it is the most devious and heinous threat that faces the world and especially the world economies. will the commission take further action on the likely developments? this is an ever-changing situation and the inherent dangers are very great. i should therefore like to know what planning will take place in future.
i welcome the commissioner's general response and i also welcome the white paper, but i do not agree with her. i think people need to be told that the european union is an unprecedented success, compared with anything that went before at any time in history, following unprecedented consultation. there are consultation groups and citizens' groups; if you had put a group outside pilate's palace they still would have told you to free barabas. what we need is an 'l' plan, not a 'd' plan. we need leadership to go out and tell people that 60 million people died in the first half of the last century and this project – this unprecedented successful project – is about ensuring it never happens again. you cannot have prosperity without peace and stability.
mr president, we are about to vote on a report on regulations on paediatric medicines. the provisions of this report are based on the obvious truth that children are not mini-adults and they must have medicines tailored and tested specifically for their use. there is another, less obvious, truth that underlies this report that i feel i must state in this debate. this truth is that an alarming number of children are sick and the number suffering from chronic, acute and fatal diseases is on the increase. as the scourge of contagious diseases among children in the west has been largely contained, all other types of illness are increasing, some to epidemic levels. in my country, it seems that every other child is ill. how many children have inhalers, or have to avoid certain foods or pets because of allergies? education budgets are straining with the increase in learning, behaviour and communication disorders. eczema, disabling autism, cerebral palsy, diabetes, epilepsy and arthritis are all increasing, as well as life-threatening leukaemia and tumours – the list goes on and on. why have children become such a profitable market place for medicines that powerful lobbies should find it worth their while to fight for a few months here and there over extended patents? in the west, we should have the healthiest children in the history of the world. we have the affluence, we have good sanitation, the wherewithal for proper – even superior – nutrition. our children should be thriving; they are not. what are we doing to children? we need to do some serious soul-searching and serious research, not just into drugs and that kind of profitable research, but into children's growth and immune system development, and identify the new factors in our environment, in our food, our birthing and child-rearing practices, in our medical practices and in our lifestyles, and find the culprits that are sickening and even killing our children.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office, mr clarke, and commissioner frattini for their speeches today. i would also like to have put on the record of this house my absolute horror and condemnation of all terrorist acts, speaking as somebody who comes from the island of ireland and who understands the effects and impact of terrorism, the way that it can undermine not only that very basic human right, the right to life, but can also undermine the power of the state, the power of the institutions and the right of good and free-thinking people to undertake opposition to political movements and go about their daily lives. we can all point to individual examples and different times when terrorist acts have so horrified us that we have wanted to respond according to the old biblical rule of an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. we have been very lucky in a lot of ways in that, at those times of crisis, many of our leaders have been able to stay calm and wait for the intelligence information to come through before responding to the threat. in this debate today, we must likewise remain calm and not give in to the narrow jingoism that some people encourage, but rather focus on creating a better european union, that european union which is made up of a europe of nation states, where those nation states with their own democratically-elected governments determine and decide what they will cooperate in, what they will do and whether they will have laws, directives, framework agreements or merely bilateral agreements. that is the essence of the way democratic control should work in the area of liberty and security. because, when we look through the history books of the 20th century and of the 21st century, terrorism and its impact – and the human devastation it causes – are as great today as at the start of the 20th century. but, likewise, the same mistakes that were made by governments at the start of the 20th century seem to be repeated today at the start of the 21st century. when we hear talk about utilising jurisprudence in the work that is being done with regard to the european convention on human rights and building on that, of course we should all be heartened to hear that our laws and our policies will be guided by those principles. but at the same time, the actions that we see after those words sometimes appear to undermine those very basic core tenets contained in the european convention on human rights. too often when we bring in special laws and new laws in response to these kinds of emergencies or situations, they stay on our books after the emergency has passed and can be utilised again and again. of course we must have cooperation. of course we must give the tools to our security services to ensure that they are able not only to prevent terrorism, but also to capture the perpetrators of terrorism, those who finance terrorism and those who are involved in other forms of criminality, whether it be drug-trafficking, money-laundering or people-trafficking. we have seen the horrors of people dying inside container trucks in ports around europe. we have seen the horrors of people dying in boats trying to come into europe because of the abuse of their human rights by people-traffickers. let me hasten to add that i am not one of those people who say that all governments are wrong and all opposition groups or all non-governmental groups are right. there is a balance to be struck between the rights of the individual and the rights of the common good. we must become the heralds of a new world, a world that recognises those fundamental and basic rights of freedom, the right to life, the right to liberty, the right to security. with all of those rights comes a responsibility. we enter into a social contract with our governments. we abdicate some of our own individual rights and freedoms in the interests of the common good to make sure that our world, our countries, our towns are better and safer places. but, in giving away those individual rights and freedoms, we also expect the same responsibility on the part of those in power. we expect the same responsibility on the part of those who run our security forces not to abuse that right and not to abuse the tasks that we have given them. the common good that the authority of the state serves is only as strong as the certainty in the minds of its citizens that their rights are protected and their responsibilities are clear.
in writing. i welcome the commission proposal which aims to improve the health of european children by facilitating research, development and authorisation of medicines for use in children. i am delighted that such an important opportunity has arisen for children to enjoy the same access to innovative new medicines as adults already enjoy. i recognise and agree with the need for rewards and incentives to industry which will encourage the development of paediatric medicinal products. i have closely reviewed the discussions and debates on how best to achieve this and i can support the commission’s proposal regarding the spc extension, in tandem with the review mechanism proposed in the regulation. i agree with the principles of transparency and public accessibility which are at the heart of the proposal to amend article 40 to include a provision for public access to paediatric clinical trial information. however concerns raised by industry regarding the possibility that public expectations may be raised prematurely with regard to some products and commercial sensitivity of information are also valid.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr queiró, on compiling this comprehensive and detailed report, which i welcome. i believe that the development of european tourism is inextricably linked to the development of transport and infrastructure across the eu. as many of my colleagues have mentioned, tourism is a very important industry. affordable travel has enabled us to move around more freely for business and pleasure. air travel in particular has become cheaper and more convenient for everyone. however, small regional airports are finding it more difficult to compete with larger international airports and as a result there has been an imbalance in the regional development of tourism. this needs to be addressed. this imbalance is very clear in my own country, ireland, and i would like to dwell on that for a minute, if i may. as an island, we are very dependent on air travel for both tourism and business and, as one of the most open economies in europe, we have, over the past decade, reaped the benefits of liberalisation of eu regulations regarding air services. the low-cost model of air travel has been a huge success. more and more flights and lower air fares have improved ireland's attractiveness as a holiday destination and irish tourism is performing very well. in 2005 we saw a 4% growth rate in overseas visitor numbers. however, this increase in visitor numbers is masking an underlying trend, a striking regional imbalance. figures show that visitor growth is concentrated mainly on the east coast of ireland around the capital, dublin. the north-west, the west and the shannon regions are displaying the weakest growth. these regions have very major tourist potential, but they suffer because of lack of comparable access. the west, and north-west in particular, have long been at a distinct disadvantage, due to the limited number of flights and destinations available from the regional airports. aer lingus, the national carrier, does not serve any european destination except the uk from regional airports. not only does this cause problems for commuters and tourists in reaching the west and north-west, it also makes it very difficult to access those regions. i would like any policy on tourism to try and address this question, because balanced regional development has been a priority in eu policy and i have always believed that this should also be linked to tourism policy. in that regard, i welcome the recent decision by commissioner barrot to introduce new guidelines laying down conditions under which start-up aid can be granted to airlines in regional airports.
mr president, i too wish to congratulate the rapporteur mr queiró on an excellent piece of work. tourism is one of the fastest-growing industries in the european union. in ireland alone, tourism revenue in 2004 amounted to eur 5 billion and it accounted for 3.9 % of gnp. from my own perspective, i am particularly interested in the promotion of sustainable tourism, for a number of reasons. first of all, tourism is an indigenous industry – it does not rely on inward investment – and it is not a mobile industry in the sense that there is no off-shoring or outsourcing of jobs. furthermore, it is a labour-intensive industry and, as such, provides employment for a wide range of people. therefore, it is fully deserving of support from the commission and a budget line should be set up to promote the tourism sector. tourism has the capacity to provide employment and generate economic activity in its own region and for its own region. this is of particular importance in rural areas, where numbers are declining in the traditional activities of agriculture and fishing. i welcome the comments of the rapporteur emphasising the need to develop farm holidays. with regard to rural tourism, there is a need to link projects together for the purposes of marketing and promotion in order to create a critical mass, and it is essential to decentralise tourism functions to the regions. the question of access by air, road and rail to the more rural areas is also vital, as the trend is for shorter holidays. that means that tourists will not spend two days of a four- or five-day break travelling to and from their destination. this is of particular importance in my region in the north west of ireland. the short tourist season is a real concern, with the need to spread the demand outside the high season and promote tourism products for different tastes, different interests, different seasons and different age groups. i welcome the proposal to introduce a community-wide classification of hotel facilities and the promotion at eu level of voluntary standards concerning measures to improve safety aspects in hotels and tourist services in general. finally, having met a group of disabled people from ireland yesterday and today on their freedom drive in strasbourg, i was pleased to note that the rapporteur has invited the commission to put forward an initiative to make tourism and leisure establishments accessible to people with reduced mobility.
president-in-office, it is absolutely disgraceful that up to 700 000 people have been displaced from their homes, their houses and businesses completely destroyed. i understand that blood transfusion stocks are now almost non-existent. the united nations is organising an international appeal for humanitarian and other aid. the international community has no option but to cooperate in helping these unfortunate people. is it not outrageous that a regime led by what can only be described as a tyrant, along with his cronies, can carry on with the ruination of a country and its people with total impunity?
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his response and understanding that actions have been taken, words have been said. is the minister aware that the indonesian foreign minister has recently taken up this case in a big way and is planning to make a presentation during the un general summit which takes place later on this year? could i urge the council, and the president-in-office in particular, to give support to the indonesian foreign minister in ensuring the release of all political prisoners, in particular aung san suu kyi?
i wish to thank the president-in-office for his reply and for the information. however, i hope that he would agree with me that these atrocities in darfur, where 180 000 people have been killed in two years and more than two million have been driven from their homes, need more urgent attention. would the president-in-office not agree that the international community, including the european union, should do more, because this has gone on for far too long?
mr president, in the few seconds that are available to me i would like to raise the question of children with special educational needs. i was quite surprised to hear the commissioner here this evening offering his defence and support for those children when the commission has in fact defended discrimination against families with children with special educational needs. the ombudsman has found it necessary to present a special report to this house in the light of a complaint made to the commission by a family who had been discriminated against, and the commission defended that discrimination, despite the fact that it is contrary to the european treaties. the ombudsman found that the discrimination was such that it constituted an unjustified discrimination. it is sad to say that this is not the only such case: a number of other cases have also been the subject of complaint to the commission, and have also been defended by the commission. i support the honeyball report and urge this house to support, in particular, paragraphs 24, 25, 26 and 27, which deal with this question of special educational needs and the need for the commission to ensure that sufficient resources are available to ensure that no child is turned away from the european school system because of their disability.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, once again i must say that a lot of these questions – or at least some of these questions – should not be addressed to me but to the board of governors. i know about the problem of overcrowded schools in brussels very well because when i started my work i was immediately made aware of the urgent need for additional schools. i therefore approached the belgian authorities, who provide the schools, and asked them to speed up the process of building a new school. a very interesting picture emerged. we have a school, we have three categories of pupils, we have category 3 pupils, and we at the commission say that there has been an increase in the number of officials in the european institutions with children and we have to provide these children with normal conditions in schools, but in fact they cannot go to these schools because they are overcrowded and the schools themselves have taken in a lot of category 3 pupils. the commission has asked the board of governors several times to suspend the enrolment of category 3 pupils until the opening of the fourth school in laeken, but this has constantly been rejected. it is very interesting; the european institutions are providing money and asking for good conditions for their children in return, but the board of governors is deciding otherwise and they are deciding whom to take and whom not to take. therefore, we have a controversial situation. the belgian authorities ask us to clarify the situation ourselves among the institutions, and then we can talk because they are the same finances. in brussels, there is a very big concentration of officials in european institutions. one aspect which has not been touched on at all so far is relations with the local authorities. this is another big issue and one that i do not want to raise. so, please, provide your support, let us take the same line with all the institutions and make it very clear that we need clear policy guidelines on this issue, more transparent management and more transparent decision-making on all these issues. what about multilingualism? from my point of view, i can only assure you that i come from a very small country, and multilingualism and linguistic problems are very serious for small nations. i can only promote multilingualism, and we will try to find solutions to allow the continuation of teaching in all languages that are in use and to ensure that children can learn in national languages as much as possible. that is the main issue. somebody raised the question of whether these schools are like ghettos or some place that nobody wants to go. i investigated this issue a little in brussels. of course, the schools are considered to be good ones and are very attractive. that is the reason why there is a very clear desire to have people from outside. it was very interesting to hear that there is some doubt about the question of institutions that are not european institutions that can provide places for category 1 pupils for their officials; we will definitely examine this question. regarding karlsruhe, i understand that you do not expect me to give immediate oral answers, but, as you asked, this can be also answered through the written procedure. i will do that with pleasure and will definitely provide all information concerning the karlsruhe school. regarding the specific question raised about the discrimination of pupils with special needs: according to the information i have, no discrimination was discovered, but there was just the question of how to cover all costs for this particular case. parents were asked to provide some additional financing. of course, we have a special allowance for children with special educational needs, but sometimes we have asked for additional resources from parents in this particular case. that is the information available to me. i would emphasise that this schools issue is a very serious issue and i can promise you that the commission takes it very seriously. but let us also clarify the whole landscape: what is going on in this whole entity concerning possible decision-making? how are decisions made, how are strategies defined? in this particular case, again, as in many different cases, a responsibility is being asked of players who are not so directly involved in decision-making. so the responsibility for the consequences is in one place and the decision-making in another. of course, financial matters are also very serious. as i have said before, especially concerning education and cultural issues, people sometimes say that we are again talking about finances but nothing can be done. finances are a kind of common denominator, and in this particular case i must say that we are not satisfied with the current system of financial organisation of this entity. you know as well as i do that these things can explode and can have very dangerous consequences, as we have seen in the european institutions, and they can do enormous damage to the image of our undertakings. so, on this particular point also, i would like to ask for your support when we have certain proposals on how to clarify, for example, fiscal management, as we have done in several other cases. of course, on the question of agencies, there is an enormous desire to establish new agencies and new institutions everywhere in europe. i absolutely agree with the opinion that the educational aspects can also be considered, and so the commission certainly asks for parliament's support, and asks parliament to be very cautious and to investigate all these proposals on all the possible consequences very carefully, including the consequences for the development of the system of european schools.
mr president, i am afraid that the commissioner is misinformed in relation to the question of discrimination. the summary of the ombudsman's recommendation of 27 may 2005 stated that: 'the ombudsman found that the financial aspects of the situation constituted an unjustified discrimination and made a draft recommendation that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that parents of special educational needs children who are excluded from the european school because of their degree of disability should not be required to contribute to the educational costs of their children.' they found clear discrimination. i would ask the commissioner to address that fact and to provide me with his opinion in writing.
mr president, i fully endorse this excellent report by the rapporteur mr bowis, but i feel that little justice can be done to the topic of major neglected diseases in developing countries in just two minutes. 1.8 million people died in 2002 from tuberculosis alone; 2.2 billion are at risk of malaria, which is preventable and curable provided that sufficient act or the new combination therapy is made available; 39.4 million people are living with the hiv virus, and last year alone 3.1 million died from aids, mainly in sub-saharan africa. only 700 000 of the 6 million who needed antiretrovirals could access that treatment. the huge human, social and economic fall-out from this is incalculable. 60 million people, again in sub-saharan africa, are at risk from sleeping sickness via the tsetse fly. 2 500 million people – two-fifths of the world's population – are at risk from dengue, another mosquito-borne infection, which is now endemic in 100 countries, with no specific treatment or even a vaccine yet. there is no specific treatment or vaccine available yet for the ravages of ebola, which has hit the headlines in recent years in these parts and which has killed 1 200 since the virus was first discovered. the list of neglected diseases continues. we could also add, as our rapporteur does, the 121 million people living with depression. nearly 9% of men worldwide and nearly 10% of women have a depressive episode each year. 873 000 people commit suicide, and that is probably underestimated. 50 million live with epilepsy, over 80 % of them in the developing world; 24 million live with schizophrenia; 37 million live with dementia, mainly alzheimer's and, with an ageing population, this is increasing all the time. in conclusion, we have listed the problems, but what are the causes? lack of clean water, lack of sanitation, lack of essential drugs, the cost of essential drugs, drug resistance issues, ineffective pesticides and drugs, drug toxicity, but above all, the main cause is the lack of political will in the developed world to do something about it. our response to the sars pandemic shows what we can do if we make communicable diseases a priority. this led to the establishment of the european centre for disease prevention and control and, as our excellent rapporteur says, we urgently need the same dynamic approach to deal with the other major global diseases. mr bowis led us in relation to the centre for disease prevention and control, and he leads us here in this report. thank you, john, you have done an excellent job.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i would like to thank deputy prime minister prescott and commissioner wallström for their presence here today. i would also like to thank mr cohn-bendit for devoting so much attention to me, as always. what we have seen here today is the ability of an institution such as ours to raise our voices in grave concern and yet come up with no solution. because, ultimately, if we really want to respond to what is occurring in the european union of today, we must first recognise that, whatever crisis we may perceive, the people out there do not see it as a crisis. for 90% of the people, the european union does not represent a positive image of relevance to them. it is seen as being interfering, over-burdensome, over-arching and, indeed, uncaring when it comes people's everyday concerns. it is important to be realistic when we consider the number of issues that our organisation can address within its rules. i heard talk here today of how wrong it was of president barroso to mention that the commission was going to drop 'x' number of directives, or that it was going to reduce the number of directives in force. the president of our own parliament said here today that there are 56 different directives dealing with the sale and production of goods for supply and for services. there are 16 individual directives dealing with the purchase, marketing and presentation of fertiliser for sale. surely, they can all be brought into a single directive. maybe there is a difference in language and interpretation and that what the president of the commission meant to say was consolidation, or codification, which happens in every single government. there is no reason why every single institution should not take a hard look at itself to determine what the most important issues to be tackled are and how legislation can be improved and made more relevant to the people. the challenges facing us today are not about the distant future, or even the failed ideologies of the past. the challenges for us today are to ensure that we can create a proper structure for europe in the 21st century. funding is a core issue and there must be agreement on the financial perspective. member states must make a payment towards the central budget to ensure that we can assist those countries most in need, and to ensure that we can continue to drive forward europe as a dynamic, innovative and creative centre. we must also try to ensure that, in so doing, we do not throw out the baby with the bathwater. there have been those who in the recent past have sought to link the common agricultural policy to the financial perspective. that was a mistake and it is to be hoped that there will now be a retreat from that position. likewise it is important that we in this parliament view our role responsibly and that, when we do not like or agree with legislation, we do not flunk the decision – as we did with the computer-implemented inventions directive, as we are trying to do with the services directive, and as we have done with many other proposed directives in the past. our role as legislators is to legislate. that requires tough decisions. that means that there will be differences between us in this house. those differences are not of a personal nature, but in what we see as the best vision for the future. finally, when we speak about an area of freedom, security and justice, it is justice which must be first and foremost among those aims and ideals, because, unless we can guarantee people that their individual rights and freedoms are protected, then we will have failed in our first duty as legislators, namely, to ensure that the laws that we pass not only protect the common good, but do not adversely affect the minority.
mr president, colleagues, as you may already be aware, the irish republican army has taken another initiative to assist peace in ireland. today's courageous decision to verifiably and definitively dispose of its weaponry represents a major advance for the peace process in ireland. the enormity of what the ira has done should neither be underestimated nor undervalued. i should like to take this opportunity to praise the ira for taking risks when others shirked their responsibilities. an enormous responsibility has now been placed on both the british and irish governments to finally implement the good friday agreement in all its aspects, on issues such as equality, human rights, policing, demilitarisation and indeed northern representation in the oireachtas. the democratic unionist party, one of whose members is elected to this parliament, must re-engage with the peace process. no possible excuse now exists for them not to sit down ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on this truly historic day for ireland. in july of this year, the ira called on its units to dump their arms and today we have verification that those words have been translated into action. yes, there are still many bridges to cross, but today, in my opinion, we have crossed the rubicon. there will be difficulties ahead; there are peace breakers on both sides who will try to derail this process. massive support must therefore be given to peace builders, to ordinary people who on a day-to-day basis begin to build trust and seek out a shared future. we salute all of those, on both sides and none, who helped to bring us to this day. in the european parliament, i wish to applaud the positive and supportive role of the european union in this process. finally, on this day we remember the victims and their families whose lives have been shattered. for them today comes too late, but for the rest of us it is hopefully a beginning.
mr president, one quarter of the irish gdp is tied up in construction. we could say that ireland is a country under construction. however, in many of the villages around the cities of my constituency, houses are being thrown up with no thought for utilities, for enough water or sewage, or for the important elements of social infrastructure. children spend their whole education in portakabins. often there are no sports fields or crèches and few shops. rural villages quickly become dormitory towns with no sense of community. is that alright with europe? does it tally with rural development? i need answers for the people of watergrass hill, glenville and other towns: the people who are struggling with life in shiny new clusters of houses with no soul.
mr president, in the presence of commissioner mccreevy and his colleagues, i would like to put down a marker about the commission's proposed reform of the sugar regime. contrary to received wisdom, global sugar consumption already outstrips demand. the united nations food and agriculture organization forecast world sugar consumption at 145 million tonnes for 2004 and 2005, with production at 143 million tonnes. world sugar consumption next year is said to reach 149 million tonnes, with per capita consumption in china alone expected to increase from its current 10 kilograms to the eu level of 35 kilograms in the medium term. in brazil the consumption per capita is already 50 kilograms. in addition the availability of irrigation water in developing countries and elsewhere is decreasing, and this will dictate a swing away from the cultivation of sugar cane, a water-intensive crop. factor in the inevitable impact on sugar cane consumption patterns by the projected increases in gasohol as oil prices rise and alternative biofuel technologies become mainstream. sugar may increasingly become a strategic commodity. the world is facing a long-term surge in demand.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr radwan, for his timely report. the financial services sector has become very sophisticated at risk management and so the regulatory framework has to respond to the times. i am very satisfied with the report on the table today. it acknowledges the fact that covered bonds are a global capital markets product and are no longer either a european or domestic product. i believe that any alternative to that would handicap the development of the sector, which has significant commercial potential. according to a study conducted by jp morgan, basel ii could increase the number of high-yield bonds – and especially covered bonds – being issued. that would be advantageous from an irish perspective because irish covered bond issues have the highest credit rating. therefore it is important that basel ii upholds current market practice in the covered bond area. banks have a long history of lending money and we sometimes take it for granted that they are fully prepared for the traditional risks such as credit and market risks. however, nowadays banks are facing increasingly unpredictable operational risks, which are difficult to manage. under basel ii it would become essential that risks analytics are timely assigned to financial services operations. it would be interesting to know what the expenditure of financial services institutions will be on analytics in the eu after the introduction of basel ii. therefore i welcome the proposed review of this regulation after four years. at the same time, however, it would be unwise to underestimate the importance of risk management in the traditional areas of credit and market risks. in today's economic climate there is a growing need for detailed analysis of the effects of recession and other financial shocks on national economies and the eu. under the standards set by basel ii the banking sector will have to invest in the development of it systems capable of modelling in-depth credit risk analysis. the way in which financial services are conducted has changed and will continue to change. however successful risk management cannot be solely based on a compulsory reply to regulations. it requires a sound understanding of what is good for business and the standard of best practice.
mr president, although it is hard to imagine from the relative comfort and security of a western european country like ireland, globally persecution is more widespread than ever. we have only to think of the political persecution in burma, the economic persecution in east timor, the religious persecution in indonesia, malaysia and korea and the persecution of mothers and fathers in china for conceiving an unauthorised child and the added persecution if it is a girl child. there is the persecution of disabled people in some communist countries and the persecution based on tribal origin in the sudan. billions of people live under the threat of persecution. when that threat moves closer and they must escape, we must receive them. it is a human imperative, but also a deeply ingrained cultural imperative in europe. from the earliest times many of us learned the story of st joseph taking the child and his mother to egypt because king herod planned to kill him. this report highlights the need for real effective guidelines and standards for refugees. i understand this need well. i have lobbied for genuine refugees in my own country, largely unsuccessfully. i think particularly of two ukrainian doctors who narrowly escaped death after exposing a government-licensed trade in human tissue obtained from aborted but living 20-week-old foetal babies. those doctors – a consultant oncologist and a paediatrician – who sacrificed their whole careers for their courageous action, have been in ireland for over a year in an overcrowded hostel with no certainty that they will not be sent back to persecution and death. our response in ireland, from what i know of other eu countries, tends to be slow and ungenerous. in the face of genuine asylum-seeking, this is not good enough. regardless of third countries, can we even call our own eu countries safe countries? we should not automatically presume.
deputising for the author.– more than one million europeans, including over 15 000 non-uk residents and many vulnerable pensioners suffered real losses totalling eur 5 billion to their prudently built-up retirement savings in 2001, allegedly due to what has been termed 'serial uk regulatory failure' and not due to falls in the stock market. the commission has claimed that it is unnecessary for it to investigate the uk's national implementation since it finds that the uk is compliant today. this does nothing to redress the issue. will the commissioner investigate the case thoroughly with a view to instigating court of justice proceedings against the uk in this case?
i thank you for your reply, commissioner, but can you tell me how one is meant to have confidence in the single market if equitable life can get away with treating ordinary people in this way? this was not due to a fall in the stock market but to serial failure in regulation. that is the allegation that has been made. how can people across europe be asked to take a single market seriously if the commission washes its hands in this way?
madam president, on a point of order, did you expend the full 20 minutes on oral questions to commissioner fischer boel?
in writing. we all are faced with the challenge of rational energy usage. even with the best will in the world people going and coming from ireland will have to rely primarily on air transport. however, development of rail transport within ireland is vital to reduce road traffic and internal air traffic and consequent fuel use. our capital city, dublin sits on the east coast, yet virtually all trains begin and end in dublin. i live in the south west of ireland. if i want to travel north by train i must travel east to dublin, then west to my destination. ireland urgently needs a western corridor rail line to link the towns and cities along the west coast. until this is done we needn't bother asking people to leave their cars at home. the other area of growth in rail transport is commuter transport. we are building satellite towns with new roads linking them to the city. why are rail lines not being laid at the same time along these roads? this would seem to be the most cost effective approach. where commuter lines exist people use them. even if priced competitively, these commuter lines whether public or private would be profitable.
mr president, while i welcome what has been said by the council and the commission, the reality today is that there is an ever-growing demand for fossil fuels. in the coming years, chinese requirements alone will increase to unheard-of levels. eventually they will be competing directly with the us for ever-diminishing supplies, which is a forbidding thought and, as we know, fossil fuels are running out very quickly. alternative energy sources are vital for our future. what will it take to make us serious about this? bioethanol is one of these sources. the eu commission recognises the importance of this industry and the fact that certain agricultural products, including sugar, could be used for producing bioethanol. the commission currently contributes financially to the creation of european biofuel projects. regrettably the take-up and use of these funds by the member states is still deplorably low. more land will become available for alternative use as a result of the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy. our farmers, who are guardians of the rural environment, could and would seriously contribute to controlling climate change by alternative use of agricultural land for the production of alternative and renewable sources. is it not time that we really got serious about this?
mr president, the united nations evolved from various initiatives to bring the countries of the world together to promote true peace through the recognition of the dignity and worth of the human person and the value of the community – local, national, and global – in protecting the person. in many ways over 60-plus years the un has accomplished this vital mandate. however, in recent decades there has been increasing criticism of the way the un does business, the way it spends its money and the type of results it is getting or not getting. the millennium challenge is enormous and it will take a functional un to meet it. reform is nothing to be ashamed of. even the tidiest house needs a spring-clean. every organisation needs to step back and review its methods. i think the example of unicef is a good place to start in understanding the desperate and urgent need to reform the un. jim grant led and largely created unicef, the un response to children, until he died in 1995. unicef justifiably earned the respect of countries and agencies everywhere for its programmes of oral rehydration, breastfeeding promotion, and primary education. unicef was in touch with the real needs of real children. over the ten years since mr grant's death, unicef seemed to become a vehicle not for promoting children, but a political agenda focused on women's rights, which was not the appropriate place: it was a children's agency. ms bellamy, who directed unicef after mr grant, was forced to resign last year. although criticism was building over nine years of her tenure, the un structures as they have evolved did not allow any internal investigation of unicef. only from the outside did an accumulation of critics and a growing scandal about the neglect of children's programmes eventually force her resignation. last year, amidst the final crescendo, publications such as the lancet were reporting that unicef's failure to develop a coherent strategy for child survival and its shortcomings were contributing to 10 million child deaths per year. for an organisation to tolerate this, such a publicly known problem, shows it needs reform. there is no disgrace in reform. no, there is only disgrace in resisting reform where it is needed. success will come when we realise that the un is an ideal that needs to be fostered and that we need an efficient organisation that can serve these ideals.
president-in-office of the council. it will not surprise you that i reject the terms of the accusation levelled at me by the supplementary questioner. i am somewhat intrigued, given the position of his party in relation to the importance of the nation state, that he does not accept the basic legal proposition as to where the legal locus to take action in relation to this matter lies. that legal locus lies with the member state and i would suggest that, rather than rehearse the arguments that we first had the opportunity to discuss in this parliament earlier this month, he should express his concern directly to those governments which have it within their powers to take action on the matter.
i am not that keen to get into this issue, but i simply want to say that the legal and justice provisions in the republic of ireland are already under way. that system is independent of the political influence of any party in the republic of ireland, as i am sure the system also is in the uk, including northern ireland. i want to appeal to you to take question 9, which is the next one and in my name. i would particularly like to put a supplementary to the council representative on the issue of the temporary agency workers directive.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture.– mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his work and his consideration of the views of the agriculture committee on this important report. i suppose there has never been a better time for a report on renewable energy. as i came down to this debate the price of oil is at usd 67 a barrel, and as we know its supply is finite. and all the while, if you look at rural areas of the european union, where much of the renewable energies will come from, they are screaming out for sustainable alternative enterprises. it is deplorable, in my view, that the eu is unlikely to meet its 12% renewable energy consumption target by 2010. it is obvious that in some member states there is neither the will nor the inclination to take seriously the need to generate renewable energy, while others are forging ahead. the biofuels directive sets targets of 2% market penetration for biofuels by the end of this year, but in ireland a target of only 0.03% for biofuels has been set. as for the whole area of biomass production – this so-called sleeping giant of renewable energies – which the commissioner has just mentioned, i am pleased to see that we will have an action plan in this area. it is very much to be welcomed. the contribution of the common agricultural policy towards renewable energy production must be recognised in both biofuels and biomass. renewable energy can assist rural areas by providing diversification options, securing farm income and generating jobs. but incentives are required to make sure that the many renewable options reach their full potential. specifically, taxation policy must not hinder the expansion of renewable energy. while we are keen to encourage diversification by our farmers, i want to add a word of caution. there is a concern that there may be a conflict in time between the production of crops for food and for non-food usage, and that would be regrettable. both must be sustainable and provide incomes. i agree that the rural development policy in the future must have as its priority the promotion of renewable energy. i will finish by saying that yesterday in ireland, 60 000 people were at a ploughing championship, many of whom were talking about this whole area of renewable energies, and one researcher, who has worked tirelessly for 20 years, said to me: 'at last, i think, our time has come'. (applause)
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on a highly informative report on the 21 types of renewable energy, which will play an ever-increasing role in the 21st century, whether from a climate-change perspective or that of the security of supply of fossil fuels and increasing prices. my own country, ireland, is uniquely placed for the development of green energy and green fuel: we have the technological base, the climate and amongst the strongest wind and waves in europe off our atlantic coast. just yesterday our minister announced a new scheme to support another 400 megawatts of renewable capacity. however, despite all of that, the ambition of our renewables sector is completely frustrated. again the minister has got it wrong: his proposal is an attempt to defy economic gravity. he is proposing the only scheme in europe to cap prices and quantities. this will totally distort competition in a market that is already stacked against independent renewable generators. we do not have de facto liberalisation of the electricity market in ireland. the investigation into anti-competiveness practices in the electricity market announced six months ago by commissioner kroes will no doubt show that the esb – our electricity supply board – like its french counterpart edf, still holds an effective monopoly and abuses its dominant position as the gatekeeper of the national grid, instead of ring-fencing generation from grid operation with cross-subsidisation of uneconomic fossil fuel generation with the national grid profits. the fear that the esb could switch off the lights at any time causes the regulators to take a softly, softly approach to the opening up of the market. there is nothing the government can do! it has relinquished all power to form policy in this particular area. the 1999 act, which set up the irish commission for energy regulation, had an in-built provision for ministerial policy directions to be cut off in 2002. conveniently the author of that act is now head of the irish commission for energy regulation, which has carte blanche to regulate without any government input or supervision. necessary independent arbitration should not preclude ministerial policy directions. we have what is effectively a marginal grid policy, where each project requires an upgrade of the grid and has to fight for access on an ad hoc basis. the bureaucracy and financial uncertainty this causes for renewables is considerable. it is high time the irish government took back control over shaping a progressive renewables policy in ireland.
mr president, the question at issue here is the political management of globalisation, so that we can encourage the orderly development of trade and avoid market disruption. a balance must be struck between eu textile protectionism, which costs an extra eur 270 per year for each four-person household, and complete market distortion. it is a difficult tightrope. yes, as politicians we are operating in the sphere of practical politics and not pure economic theory. we cannot have a situation such as that which arose this summer, when the sale of 80 to 90 million items of clothing and textiles was blocked in the warehouses of europe, paralysing european businesses and damaging their trade relations with chinese counterparts. we need more flexibility to manage unforeseen changes in global trade. that involves setting up a level playing field where everyone plays by the same rules. it is essential that the commission does its utmost to enforce the terms of trade agreements where exporters to the eu comply with international norms on workers' rights and environmental standards. the chinese have the advantage of cheap labour and sometimes, by our standards, questionable labour standards. but let us be honest, the textile industry in europe is one of the lowest paid too and the more educated our workforce becomes, the less inclined they are to take up the sewing machine. there are a lot of circles to be squared here, less revisionism about what conditions were like in our industries years ago, and we need an honest, open dialogue. there is tension, even within the eu, as to how it should be handled. since the setting-up of import quotas, chinese textile exports to the eu are allowed to grow by between 8 and 12% for the next couple of years. the spanish and the french have one view on how this should be handled, the british, irish and the nordic countries another view. those speaking on behalf of retailers and consumers take one view, whereas those in relation to producers have another view. my own government has in recent years changed its policy and now actively encourages and assists irish companies to source in the people's republic of china and elsewhere. we have no choice since we joined the european union and lost our advantage to the euro-mediterranean producers. we need open and honest dialogue and need to look to ourselves internally first.
in writing. i support this motion and call on all member states to take urgent note of our concern at the recent continuous increase in the price of crude oil and its effect on the poor in our society. increasing crude oil prices are having a detrimental effect on the european economy and are likely to impede our chances of attaining the lisbon objectives of high quality full employment. we must tackle our dependence on oil, diversify our energy sources, promote energy conservation measures, develop renewable energy sources. the eu should hold a world summit of oil consumer and producer countries. every member state should contribute by assessing its domestic energy needs and how best it can move towards sustainable energy use. the most logical response to higher oil prices is to switch to using alternative energy sources and focus on the use of renewable energies to promote energy efficiency. bearing in mind that 40% of energy usage is for the purpose of warming or cooling our homes member states should urgently introduce incentives for green energy solutions.
in writing. i believe the united nations constitutes the most appropriate and only global institution potentially able to foster solutions to global problems. i particularly welcome the decision to create a peace-building commission as well as the inclusion of the concept of human security in the official un framework. i also welcome the recognition of the international community's responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, as well as the clear responsibility of each individual state to protect their own citizens from these crimes. reducing extreme poverty and child mortality, providing education and access to clean water and enhancing gender equality must remain at the centre of the development agenda and it is most unfortunate that there is no precise timetable committing all developed countries to the pursuit of the intermediate and final mdg targets;while glad to welcome many of the reforms now proposed by the summit i deeply regret the it's failure to reach agreement on measures for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. work and efforts to make progress on these issues must intensify considerably.
in writing. i support the stance of this report that, if the fundamental rules of road safety are not adhered to, neither improved infrastructure nor technological advances can guarantee the life of the everyday road user - driver, cyclist, passenger or pedestrian. estimated figures for 2004 reveal that there were 43,000 road fatalities in europe. a quarter of these fatalities were 15-24 years old. this is a shocking figure. the objective of reducing and even removing this statistic should be at the centre of all future road safety policy throughout europe. in ireland some schools have been providing driving lessons as part of the transition year curriculum. i think this is something that could be expanded upon, throughout europe, because schools offer a unique opportunity to educate this very venerable road user group. i would like to see a more targeted approach being taken to curve the number of road users - drivers, young drivers specifically, cyclists, and pedestrians- dying, unnecessarily, on european roads. we have a lot to learn from each other on this and exchange of best practice is important. i agree with mr. vatanen that the improvement of the road users' behaviour offers the biggest potential for cutting road accident figures.
mr president, i totally disagree with mr schulz with regard to what commissioner mccreevy did or did not say, because if you read the 16 different press reports on the incident in sweden, none of it was related to the swedish social model. the only person who mentioned the swedish social model was the swedish minister for industry. there is nothing whatsoever in this storm in a teacup that is trying to be wrapped up by the social democrats against commissioner mccreevy. indeed, if you want to judge him on his record, then look at his record as minister of finance in ireland concerning the social model, where health care was increased, pensions were increased and the highest minimum wage was introduced under his watch. in addition, more trade negotiations and more trade union negotiations took place at a national level and, over seven different years, there were four different programmes to guarantee the rights of workers and the right to participation of workers’ representatives. this is an opportunist action on behalf of the socialist group to try to create a storm before the conference takes place in london. we should wait to hear what the discussions will be and ensure that we focus our work on real and important issues for european citizens, not pie-in-the-sky attitudes. i oppose the motion. (applause)
mr president, i should like to raise the issue of a problem that an organisation called frontline is experiencing. frontline is an international foundation for the protection of human rights defenders, an organisation that seeks to help those who are working in various parts of the world defending human rights, and who themselves are at risk. frontline has organised a major conference in dublin this week and eight of the participants in that conference have been denied the right to travel by their states. they include a participant from uzbekistan; a participant from tunisia; a participant from palestine who has been denied the right to travel by israel; participants from iran and saudi arabia; a participant from western sahara who has been denied the right to travel by morocco; a participant from syria; and a participant from chechnya who has been denied the right to travel by russia. this is clearly a situation in which people who are defending the universal declaration of human rights are being denied the right they are guaranteed under that declaration to leave and to return to their own country. i would ask the presidency of parliament to intervene on behalf of these people. i will send the details of these cases individually to the presidency.
mr president, vat reductions on labour-intensive activities were used by countries to make buildings more affordable for people and families. these reductions will end on 31 december if we do nothing. this would be counter-productive at this time with an ageing population which will require labour-intensive building adaptations of their homes. similarly, with the increasing number of persons with disability, adaptations which are labour-intensive will be needed. it is also ironic that we are taking away the vat reductions at the same time as the eu is requiring and encouraging energy efficiency in houses. if we are going to make houses more energy efficient we need to be able to do very labour-intensive building, and renovation, and we are making it more, not less, expensive. are we serious about lowering our domestic energy use? if we are, we need to extend the vat reductions of labour-intensive activities, particularly in the building industry.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i would like to welcome commissioner michel here this afternoon. i listened with interest to his speech and i support many of the things he said. the european union plays a pivotal role in the area of development, providing 55% of world development aid, most of which goes to africa. during the united nations summit in new york in september 2005, the eu strongly affirmed its will to contribute to the achievements of the millennium development goals. the first of these ambitious eight goals is the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger. halving world poverty between now and 2015 is a major challenge that faces us in the years to come. there can be no question of the eu’s commitment to africa and to the eradication of poverty. however, there is a severe lack of consolidated information on what we donors actually do in africa. how sure is the european union of the effectiveness and efficiency of its aid? i welcome the commissioner saying that he intends to put in place an action plan on aid efficiency. the european union donates more to africa than any other institution or government in the world. yet corruption steals so much of what we give to those who need it most. donating vast sums of money is admirable, but it carries with it responsibilities: a responsibility on the part of the donor – ultimately you and i – and a responsibility on the part of the recipients, in this case africa. there is an acute need for ownership, responsibility, accountability and leadership to be developed among the ruling governments and countries of africa. the european union needs to take a clinical approach to promoting good governance. the overriding objective of poverty reduction is based on the complementary aim of promoting good governance and respect for human rights. we need to reward the african countries that acknowledge the concept of democracy and respect for human rights and we must continue condemning corrupt regimes which are slowly but surely destroying their countries.
on behalf of the uen group.– mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for her tremendous work on this report. it comes at a very appropriate time, as we are entering discussions on the reform of the european social model and on engendering greater support for the lisbon strategy. ultimately, all these policies – whether economic or social – must be human-based. the figures and statistics show us that in the member states of the european union poverty has more impact on women than on any other section of society. because of their unique role within our societies – they are the main childminders and the main rearers of children – there is an ongoing difficulty for children being trapped in poverty as well. rather than drawing up more reports, let us talk to the women who are suffering from poverty; let us hear what they need in order to come out of poverty and where they find the difficulties. let us not forget the words of nelson mandela, who said that overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. it is an act of justice. it is the protection of the fundamental human right to a decent life and to freedom.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate that took place, and i think that it is possible to summarize some of the basic conclusions which, of course, are already contained in some form in the original report, but these conclusions have been presented with new urgency and sometimes with new arguments. it is clear that women are more vulnerable to poverty and that in this sense we cannot speak of equal opportunities in a society which clearly gives one gender fewer opportunities. so despite all that we've done in equal opportunity policy, we're no longer at the beginning, but far from the end. it is also clear that the risk of poverty affects women in particular social situations, but it is also clear that the risk of poverty is a lifelong phenomenon and that with demographic ageing we are facing the problem of poor widows, especially poor single women, which is one of the things that needs to be taken into account. i also think it's clear from the debate that we can't rely on automatic progress. progress that just comes once and every year it will be a little better and one day it will be perfectly good, but that requires a very substantial effort at all levels, and particularly at the member state level. the debate has been about the importance of the minimum income. i just want to say that we will be presenting a communication on this subject before the end of the year, and i think that this can be the beginning of a substantial and profound discussion on the concept of the minimum income and also on the way in which individual countries are progressing in this area. ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for the report that has been submitted. i've studied it quite carefully. i guess there's just one question that's not quite clear to me. i think i understand it in principle, because in some of the debates there have also been hints that there is a significant amount of work that is informal, that does not enter the formal economy, that does not enter the gross domestic product, and yet it really exists. i understand your text, which talks about the economic value of life, but i would just like to clarify whether this is what is meant, because of course it would be interesting to develop a certain methodological discussion in this direction. so, ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for the report that has been submitted. its conclusions are undoubtedly inspiring and will become part of the european union's drive to eradicate poverty, eradicate poverty and create equal opportunities.
mr president, yesterday a motion was put forward to bring commissioner mccreevy before parliament. the groups were asked to speak on the motion. the ind/dem group was simply skipped. i have observed this before. in this case though, i was designated to speak on this very important issue for the group and i seek to make that statement now. (the president agreed to mrs sinnott's request)the ind/dem group agrees with mr schulz that commissioner mccreevy should be called before this house to account for his statements on the european social model. mr mccreevy has of course always opposed that model. he was minister for finance as ireland ascended to wealth, and how did he choose to spend it? on our chaotic health system? on our crumbling school buildings? on a very excluding special needs education system? on our housing crisis? did he get patients off a two-year waiting list for minor operations? not our charlie! he made sure that his friends in the horse racing business did not have to pay tax on six-figure-a-go stud fees. i have had seven years to observe charlie’s distaste for wasting taxpayers’ money on social services. the other 719 members may not yet know how charlie operates and they deserve a chance to see what they are in for.
in writing. i support this resolution especially the references to the human rights situation in iran which has further deteriorated since the presidential elections of june 2005. amnesty international and human rights watch have increasingly reported human rights violations in iran during the last few months, and there are increasing reports regarding executions and death sentences, especially against juvenile offenders and members of minorities, which violate internationally recognised criteria and standards. i am deeply concerned at iran's lack of cooperation with regard to the eu-iran human rights dialogue and that there are no signs of the enforcement of iran's commitment within this dialogue to strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. i therefore support the call on iran to recommence the eu-iran human rights dialogue with the european union andcalls upon the council and commission to monitor developments in iran and raise concrete cases of human rights abuses within the framework of the dialogue. the commission must also make effective use of the european initiative for democracy and human rights to intensify contacts and cooperation with iranian civil society and independent media and to support democracy and respect for human rights in iran.
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of this house the findings of a visit i made to romania to look in particular at the situation of babies and young adults with handicaps in institutional care. this is an area where the european union could perhaps be doing more to push the romanian authorities to increase the pace of reform. for example, last year 4600 babies were abandoned in maternity hospitals. some were reunited with their families but many remain there. i lifted up a little boy of 18 months who had never been outside a maternity hospital. this is not something we want to see. we need emergency fostering in romania and we need the european union to push for that. in relation to the institutional care of adults with handicaps, i visited an institution where 450 people were living in awful conditions, unacceptable to us here in the european union. some progress is being made but more could be done if we put greater pressure on the romanian authorities. i would ask that we all do that.
mr president, the treaty establishing a constitution for europe was signed less than 18 months ago by all the heads of state and government. that treaty retained the principle of a common agricultural policy agreed in 1957, including the article which states that eu policy is to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, in particular by increasing the individual earnings of persons engaged in agriculture. yet, within two years, commissioner mandelson seems to be prepared to sacrifice the european model of agriculture in order to hammer out a deal at the wto, by forcing farmers to bear a disproportionate share of the burden. at the same time we have mr barroso offering deals which undermine pledges given to farmers in the context of cap reform, in order to move prime minister blair on the budget. the eu demands traceability, cross-compliance and food security from its farmers, and rightly so, but in return it is threatening to break its promises, causing huge uncertainty in the agricultural community, and it is proposing to sell out its primary food producers for a quick-fix deal.
mr president, i wish to make just two short points concerning the avian flu situation. dr david nabarro, un coordinator for avian and human influenza, has stressed that, to prevent a pandemic of human infection, the global response to the bird flu epidemic must be intensified. the united states has ordered approximately 100 million dollars’ worth of vaccine. the united nations, by contrast, has a total budget of around usd 7 million to control animal outbreaks of avian flu, but requires usd 175 million for an effective programme. my second point is that, in addition to the evident problem of slow manufacturing processes, it appears unlikely that there will be enough flu shots available for all those who might need them. however, it might be possible to contain an h5n1 outbreak at its source, if the surrounding population were immediately vaccinated. i would like to raise the question of whether we in the european union would be prepared to share the vaccines we already have in our possession with regions where an outbreak occurs, in an effort to contain it. it should not just be a matter of having vaccines in case it affects our own citizens: if there is an outbreak, we should target it wherever it occurs and try to ensure that it does not spread.
mr president, ireland is the only country in europe in which driftnet fishing of wild atlantic salmon is allowed. what is happening is an absolute scandal. wild atlantic breeding stock salmon are being intercepted by driftnet fishermen as the salmon try to make their way to their natural habitat rivers. this applies not only to irish rivers, but also to british, french, spanish and scandinavian rivers. as a result, the wild atlantic salmon numbers have decreased dramatically. it is crystal clear that the species is under threat of extinction unless decisive action is taken. unfortunately, the irish minister for the marine and the irish government have chosen to ignore all the scientific evidence and continue to allow the scandal of driftnet fishing to continue. there are only 877 driftnet fishermen in ireland. the irish government should compensate them by buying back or extinguishing their licences. the commission’s dg fisheries should insist that ireland should do so.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, i should like to discuss the report from the point of view of the committee on foreign affairs, on behalf of which i drew up an opinion. i argued that there should be a gradual opening-up of the various programmes to all of our neighbourhood policy countries. it has been proposed that they should be opened up to a number of neighbourhood countries but, given the very good work these programmes have done in encouraging the strengthening of people-to-people contacts, a general consensus should be reached on opening up these programmes more widely, where this can be done effectively. i am keen to ensure that the erasmus mundus programme will be continued under this heading post-2009, together with the inter-university programme set up last year, which aims to develop democracy and understanding between our various countries. one of the obvious failings of the current proposals, in my view, was the almost complete lack of any reference to developing democratic citizenship. mention was made of citizenship, but i felt that there was a lack of emphasis on the democratic role. given that the commission and the council had already accepted that this was a necessity and had already agreed to set up the inter-university programme in venice, this should be supported. i am disappointed that there appears to be a dispute between two commission dgs as to who should fund this programme in the future. i hope that the problem can be resolved as a matter of urgency.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, on her report. the audiovisual industry is one of the most rapidly growing sectors in europe. in the eu over one billion people went to the cinema in 2004, yet american films dominate the industry, holding 71% of the market. so far the european union has failed to make effective use of its own audiovisual market. this ultimately means lost opportunities for growth and employment in europe. europe has tremendous linguistic and cultural diversity and this must be capitalised on through the audiovisual sector. i have seen the importance of this sector at first hand in my own region in the west of ireland, where the irish language is spoken. it has gone from strength to strength in recent years. people go to the cinema more often in ireland than in any other eu country. the importance of a vibrant european-based audiovisual industry cannot be over-emphasised. it is a channel providing important opportunities for communicating the key values underlying europe’s rich cultural heritage and it must therefore be supported in every possible way. go raibh milé maith agaibh.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a package of two pieces of legislation and i am rapporteur for both; hence the time allocated to me. i wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in the ppe-de group and all the political groups for a wide-ranging discussion and debates. we did not agree on everything but we have had a lot of discussion on the very interesting issues contained in both these pieces of legislation. the background is that the fluorinated gases were introduced in the nineties to replace the ozone-depleting cfcs and hcfcs. they are used in all sorts of applications, some essential, others less so: in insulating foams, aerosols, refrigeration and air conditioning systems, in fire protection equipment and even in the soles of air technology jogging shoes. as the debate on climate change developed following the un framework convention on climate change, the harmful impact of these fluorinated gases, owing to their high global warming potential or gwp, became recognised as a major contributor – 5% and rising – to the ‘greenhouse effect’. of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 kyoto protocol, three are fluorinated gases. the aim of this legislation is to enable member states to meet their kyoto targets by containing the leakage and restricting the use of fluorinated gases. whereas the original commission proposal to parliament was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base – article 95 – the council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on article 95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of articles 175 and 95. the rationale for the split of the commission proposal into two different texts was to move all the requirements relating to emissions from air conditioning in motor vehicles from the proposed regulation to the framework directive for type-approval of motor vehicles, directive 70/156/eec. the proposed regulation would then focus on the remaining stationary applications. as far as the mobile air conditioning or mac directive is concerned, i am of the opinion that a balance has to be struck between, on the one hand, being technology-prescriptive in relation to the global warming potential of the gases to be allowed according to the directive and, on the other hand, promoting the development of alternative environmental technologies. as it now stands, the ban in the directive applies to gases with a global warming potential higher than 150, meaning that hfc-152a – which has a global warming potential of about 120 – can still be used. this will allow further innovation and development of alternative technologies with regard to air conditioning systems. reducing the gwp threshold in mobile air conditioning will effectively mean that the development of co2 technology is the only option for european car manufacturers at the present time. while i recognise that european industry is a world leader in this technology and i commend its achievements, the current state-of-the-art co2 systems have a number of disadvantages which make them unsuitable for export outside the eu. first of all, they involve very high pressure equipment, which would present health and safety risks to mechanics who do not have the expertise to service them. outside the eu, where f-gas technology will remain mainstream, the service networks for such systems will simply not exist. secondly, co2 technology is not suitable for use in certain extreme temperatures, in very hot climates for instance. setting the threshold at 150 gwp does not exclude the further refinement of co2 technology, but it would allow our car manufacturers to maintain market penetration in all areas of the world. by coming down from the present position to 150 gwp, there is at least a ten-fold decrease – 1000% – in emissions and there would be negligible extra benefit – about 2.6% – in setting a gwp threshold at 50. i know some colleagues are attached to this proposal, but it would be hard to defend it at world trade level because of this insignificant extra environmental benefit and because of this it could be perceived as a technical trade barrier. to reiterate, what is important is that, by adopting this directive, we are blocking the use of hfc-134a, which has a global warming potential 10 times higher than hfc 152a. with regard to the phase-out dates proposed by various members, our aim should be for this legislation to enter into force as soon as possible, so that industry can begin to get rid of the gases with very high global warming potential, while maintaining the six-year type-approval timeframe. i am therefore in favour of approving the common position on the directive as it is, without further amendments. on the regulation on certain fluorinated gases, there has been serious debate over the legal base: whether the legal base of the regulation should be the environment (article 175 of the treaty) or the single market (article 95 of the treaty) or whether the dual legal base proposed in the common position (articles 175 and 95) should be maintained. we as a parliament have a duty to settle this issue; above all, industry needs legal certainty. as rapporteur, i have consulted widely on this issue and examined every option from one end of the spectrum to the other. my main priority has been to achieve legal certainty for industry. after considered deliberation, i have come to the firm conclusion that the only logical and legally watertight option in the spirit of the aims and scopes of the regulation – i would advise colleagues and others interested to read the recitals – is to opt for a single legal base that corresponds to the preponderant purpose or the ‘centre of gravity’ of the legislation. in this case, as in the ozone depleting substances regulation to which this proposal is related, that is environmental protection. it is clearly explained in the recitals to the regulation that the main aim is to contribute to global warming reduction targets. the scope of the regulation is absolutely clear on that as well: global warming reduction targets, air quality improvement. the european parliament’s legal opinion stated categorically that an unevenly weighted dual legal base, as in the common position, is legally unsound and will be struck down by the ecj. all the precedent case-law confirms that the court will quash the reference to the subordinate legal base – article 95 in this case – and interpret the whole regulation as founded on the main legal base – article 175. however, this outcome will only come about after years of wrangling and protracted uncertainty for industry. we should keep control of legislative decisions in this political arena – even if it means conciliation it is still political control – rather than letting the courts decide on legislation for us. article 175 will also allow those member states which already have more ambitious legislation in force as part of their kyoto strategy to keep that legislation where it is appropriate for the functioning of the internal market and not, as would be the case with the current common position, force them to bring their environmental standards down to lower eu levels. it is important to remember, however, that articles 175 and 176 do not give member states a free hand to introduce whatever measures they want. the internal market will still be protected from unjustified trade barriers under the environment legal base, article 175, which is predicated on protection of the single market. it is clearly stated in article 176 that no stricter measures can be taken by a member state unless they are compatible with the treaty, i.e. unless they are proportionate, non-discriminatory and do not create unjustified barriers to the single market. the effect of the environment legal base is substantively the same as the single market (article 95) base, which also allows member states to take stricter measures. it is only the burden of proof – on the commission under article 175, on the member state under article 95 – and the enforcement procedures which are different. in this respect, i call on the commission to make a declaration, on the record, that it will be assiduous in pursuing its obligations as enforcer of the treaty in relation to this regulation and that it will take particular care to police and monitor any stricter measures that are proposed by member states, in the interests of furthering the internal market within the bounds of article 175. while the commission may not have been proactive enough to date in using its infringement powers, i hope that its recent case against denmark will be a sign of things to come and will assuage the worst case scenario fears of industry with regard to the single market. as a further safeguard, and to assist smes, i have proposed an amendment to introduce an online register where any stricter measures that are compatible with the single market under article 176 would be recorded in an easily accessible single document. i urge colleagues to support this proposal. in an enlarged europe of 25 – soon to be 27 – member states, the council may well resort to more frequent use of a dual legal base in order to try and satisfy various national interests. this will result in fragmentation of the purpose and focus of legislation. this trend towards cobbling together sloppy compromises at the council negotiating table when member states cannot reach an acceptable political agreement is extremely worrying. i believe that the european parliament is uniquely placed to overcome the constraints of national positions and to provide policy coherence in areas where community-level action is required. we as a parliament must resist the dilution and emasculation of legislation. the bottom line is that, if the common position on the dual legal base is maintained, this regulation will end up with a single article 175 legal base after the ecj has examined it and struck down the subordinate legal base, article 95. i would prefer this parliament’s decision to prevail and i cannot put my name to a regulation that is not legally sound and will not withstand legal scrutiny. one key argument that has received little acknowledgement in the heated debates so far is the competitiveness case of employing article 175 to achieve our lisbon targets of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, with sustainable growth as an integral part of that objective. the proposal to use a single market legal base and also impose additional bans in the annex is a blunt instrument that industry, the commission and the council cannot accept. at present, none of the proposals to include additional bans on the use of f-gases in certain applications have been subjected to impact assessments or comprehensive health and safety or even cost-benefit analysis by the commission. i do not believe we should use them without prior technical examination. i believe in containment and recovery as very sensible and effective means of mitigating emissions of greenhouse gases. however, i also see the need for promoting the development of alternative technologies which are more environmentally benign than the existing ones. by allowing more ambitious legislation in some member states, subject to the close scrutiny of the commission, and by restricting the marketing of certain products where better alternatives exist, the objectives just mentioned will be given impetus. industry must be given long-term certainty. it is our duty to lay out the directions for the future and it is for us as politicians, together with the council and the commission, to decide on legislation and not allow the ecj to direct it all.
mr president, commissioner, fluorinated gases are a grave threat to our environment. it seems that the world is warming up; we are aware that significant measures must be taken to combat activities that contribute to this problem. we must also be firm in our commitment to honour the kyoto treaty and to go beyond the rhetoric of environmental protection. we must replace fluorinated gases with safer alternatives and take real action towards stopping their release into the environment. however, it would be counterproductive to ban these gases in such a way that we simply destroy european companies, while simply moving manufactured products that use f-gases to countries that do not ban them, countries that may even see an eu ban on fluorinated gases as an opportunity to capture the refrigeration and other related markets. the whole globe shares the same ozone layer. phasing out the use of fluorinated gases in favour of competitive alternatives is an important step towards making real environmental progress. however, in phasing out substances, we must also ensure that existing f-gases are not simply released into the environment. regulation of f-gases has led to toxic graveyards of leaking fridges in some countries. we have to ask ourselves the question: what is the best way to keep f-gases from being released into the environment? more focus must be put upon controlling the gases that have already been produced. we must ensure that a mechanism is put in place to effect the safe elimination of existing fluorinated gases as well.
mr president, i should like to thank my colleagues. it has been a very interesting debate. i also thank commissioner dimas. as i came here to speak tonight, the committee on legal affairs was only beginning to consider – as is its duty – the proposed change in the legal base in the common position. i should like to put on record that it was considered, but without much debate at all, and the members of the legal affairs committee were never even advised that parliament's legal opinion to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was that the dual legal base would not withstand a challenge before the ecj. they agreed that the dual legal base, as proposed in the common position, should remain. but our clear legal advice is that this will not withstand a challenge before the european court. on that basis and according to what everyone else has said, i appeal to colleagues for support for the legal base of article 175 tomorrow, with the proper commission policing – please – of the internal market, as required of them under article 176. that is most important. under the better regulation announcement by president barroso some weeks ago, the f-gases were mentioned in terms of impact assessment and analysis. the four-month time frame that we have in parliament at second reading did not allow a proper teasing-out of exactly what was in the commission's mind. it is unacceptable to ask us to pass this legislation – but we have no choice, because of the time frame – without a proper and full impact analysis, as many colleagues have requested, particularly in relation to bans. i do not, generally speaking, support the extra bans, particularly on sf6 and others. i am generally in favour of article 175 but against extra bans. it is not acceptable at this point for that industry to bear that particular burden. the political reality is that if we do not get a qualified majority for legal base article 175 tomorrow – and we need a qualified majority for a second reading – the common position will remain: the dual legal base. that will be challenged before the european court of justice, as we have been told, and we know the countries that are going to do it. all legal advice tells us that they will find in favour of article 175 as the legal base. so for those who do not want that to happen, ironically, they should support article 175 tomorrow so that we go into conciliation and politically we decide the shape, which will not be purely article 175 because there will have to be compromises. we should decide in conciliation and not let the ecj decide, even though i would be very optimistic that my personal opinion will come out of the ecj. we are politicians; we want to decide it ourselves. thank you for your support.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i welcome president barroso and commissioner mccreevy to the chamber today. it is unfortunate that we have not been able to utilise our time with them to discuss the document which they presented to the conference of presidents last week with regard to the future european social model. the reason why we are not discussing upcoming events, where we can have influence with regard to decisions that will be taken by the 25 member states, is because certain members of this house want to re-run previous battles, previous elections, and to try to insist in future elections. these arguments and this debate are predicated not on real divergence of opinion with regard to a better form of social model, but merely on maintaining an archaic, protectionist system. when you fail to win the argument, you then attack the man: you carry out a personal attack because of his accent, because of the way in which he expresses himself. that is the most despicable form of political discourse or activity that i have ever come across. let us look at the clear facts before us. we have a statement by the commission that the social model of each member state is its own business. questions concerning collective bargaining or collective agreements are a matter for the member states themselves and not for anyone else. the commission has reiterated what we have known since 1969: the commission’s role is to defend the european treaties, whether it be article 49, article 21, article 95 or article 99. we also have a new document from the commission, agreed by the college, which puts forward the best parts of the social models that are available to us within the european union and states that this should be our minimum standard, our starting point. but what do we see happening? we see member state governments – the swedish government in particular – utilising an opportunity given to it by the socialist group in this parliament to express its opposition to the services directive when, for three years, it has been in favour of that directive. we now have a situation where members are standing up in this house to say that they are defending workers’ rights in latvia as well as in sweden, despite the fact that the only exact information we have is that latvian workers have lost their jobs because of the actions of some swedish governments and trade unions. it does not behove the future negotiations and discussions on behalf of europe that, within this house, we cannot even set down proper debating time to discuss real issues rather than abstract principles. (applause)
mr mccreevy, you did not need to say anything in sweden. in fact, i am surprised that your words about social models have caused such a stir. being irish i have long known – but perhaps others have not – of your opposition to the so-called european social model. you became finance minister just as ireland’s celtic tiger was transforming the country from one of the eu’s poorest nations to its financial summit. despite our wealth, when you left office last year, we still had one of the lowest social spends in the eu. you had more money at your disposal than anyone in irish history, yet the irish health system remained an under-funded disgrace, with long waiting lists for the simplest operations and patients crammed into hospital hallways every weekend. special needs children were regularly denied appropriate education and therapy, and you left public housing lists to grow and grow. your budgets denied rights and services to the most vulnerable in irish society. therefore, the opposition you express to sweden’s social model is not news to me. however, here is my question: mr mccreevy, what is the point of a society that does not serve its people? what is the money we create for?
mr president, what we have heard here this morning is, regrettably, vintage mccreevy. commissioner, you have to recognise that vintage mccreevy does not work at european level. you have to build consensus here or you fail. commissioner, you have done it again: having given the commission the ‘two fingers’ when you were an irish minister, you have now outraged the swedish population with a similar gesture towards their social partnership model as well as the european parliament today. you will not achieve market reform with those bulldozer tactics. the celtic tiger, for which you claim credit in ireland, has given us 150 000 children living in poverty in ireland. a man died last week because he could not have simple surgery in our hospital system. sweden spends eur 200 per person as a proportion of gdp, compared to eur 100 in ireland, yet sweden is the third most competitive economy in the world, compared to ireland’s position at 26th. we need a high-quality european social model which uses social infrastructure as a building block for a prosperous and fair society. setting latvian workers against swedish workers will destroy the union, commissioner. that is the nub of the debate on the deeply flawed services directive. take note or fail.
mr president, over the past 300 years, 10 influenza pandemics have occurred among humans. the most recent came in 1968-69, and the most deadly in 1918-19: the so-called spanish flu pandemic. scientists have been predicting a lethal cyclical resurgence of influenza for some time, one that will be more deadly because of our low levels of resistance. now, with avian influenza, they are recognising the hallmarks of such a virus. the medical histories of those who have died of h5n1 influenza to date are disturbingly similar to accounts of sufferers of the 1918-19 outbreak. since scientists first started saving flu virus samples in the early 20th century, an h5n1 influenza has never spread among human beings, so population vulnerability to an h5n1-like pandemic virus would be universal. the influenza virus is an rna virus containing eight genes. like most rna viruses, it reproduces sloppily, its genes readily fall apart, and it can absorb different genetic material which recombines in a process called reassortment. when influenza successfully infects a new species, it can reassort, and may switch from being an avian to a mammalian one. when that occurs, a human epidemic can result. since it was first recorded in 1997, avian flu strain h5n1 has undergone multiple reassortments – more than 17 mutations – and evolved at high speed to the point where, in january 2003, the ‘z’ virus emerged. in late 2004, there was one documented case of human-to-human transmission of the ‘z’ strain of h5n1. by april 2005, the h5n1 virus had also moved to pigs. it is this rapid evolution of the virus that makes it such a potential threat. we cannot prepare a vaccine in advance or stockpile it. the total number of companies willing and able to produce influenza vaccines has plummeted in recent years from more than two dozen in 1980 to just a handful in 2004. there is serious questioning in the scientific community about the possibility of speeding up vaccine production because of contamination risks. while it is important for us to be prepared and vigilant and to take precautionary action, with responsible risk assessment and forward planning, a lot will depend on the availability and effectiveness of anti-virals and vaccines and hospital bed capacity, which has been seriously reduced in all eu countries in the last decade.
mr president, i thank the commission for its report. this is a very important day for romania and bulgaria, and i welcome the observers here today. it must be difficult for them, because here we are pointing out some of their faults. however, we do it not in a mean-spirited way but to offer them some help to improve the situation. i would accept the premise of the report that progress has been made by both countries but that more is required. i want to talk about romania in particular and, even though others have dealt with the subject, specifically about the situation for young children, babies and adults with handicaps in institutional care. as baroness nicholson pointed out, while very good progress has been made on children’s rights – indeed, it is a model – it is disturbing that there are difficulties in practical terms. for example, many babies are abandoned in maternity hospitals; they cannot be put into institutions so they languish in maternity hospitals for months and, indeed, years. recently, i met a toddler of 18 months in a maternity hospital. we need emergency fostering situations in those cases. in relation to young people with handicaps, there are examples of pilot projects working to close down institutions and to put up sheltered accommodation, but the implementation is erratic. there are huge difficulties in some counties: for example, only yesterday, some of the staff in giurgiu county had not been paid. if these people are not paid, who will feed those who cannot feed themselves? that is something we need to address. in relation to agriculture, there are huge difficulties for both countries: they need investment and modernisation, and we must assist them with that. the uncertainties over the financial perspective are a worry. i would urge mr blair, the president-in-office of the council, to come to us soon with a resolution to that. overall, i am not obsessed with dates, but i am obsessed with delivery. what i am trying to do today is to highlight for those who do not have a voice that their issues are heard here in the european parliament and that we will watch to ensure that we deliver for them.
an example of where the commission might assist member states is with the introduction of the weee directive in ireland, which this year caused utter confusion and consternation because people really did not know what was happening. maybe you could answer this question. many people saw this as an additional cost to the consumer, yet we are being told by the government that it was not an extra charge. can you clarify if this visible recycling charge which is now itemised on all our electrical goods is indeed additional and perhaps why consumers are being asked to pay vat on top of it?
would the commissioner agree that one of the best ways to manage waste is not to create it? is he aware, for example, in ireland again, that a 5 pence – as it was then – charge on plastic bags in supermarkets in particular simply resulted in people not taking plastic bags away from supermarkets and going back home to bringing bags to supermarkets to collect goods? this had a huge impact on waste management in ireland. there may well be other practices in other member states from which we could learn. would the commissioner see it as his role to benchmark for member states best practice in other member states so that we could use that as a resource?
thank you for that answer. you will be aware that in ireland there is a great deal of debate about driftnetting and whether we should introduce a compulsory or voluntary buy-out of driftnets. you said we need to get the balance right, do you think we have the right balance at the moment between management practices and preserving our stocks? i am interested in your review. can you be more specific as to when it will be available and will it make firm recommendations? we need to protect salmon stocks, which are in grave danger in irish waters, and there are economic consequences arising from that.
mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that it is not good enough to come up with grand policy statements setting out our ethical position on european values if, when a clear, specific challenge to those values is brought to light, we just say timidly that it might be an infringement. today we are faced with an unambiguous case. the european patent office has granted edinburgh university a patent, number 125 7167, covering human cells. it also, ironically, involves a process of sex selection, at a time when we in europe have firmly committed ourselves to the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of sex. the precautionary principle must apply. if there is any risk of human material becoming a commercial commodity, this parliament must stand up and be counted and register a formal legal objection to this illegal trafficking in human body parts before it is too late. this resolution is important, because there is not much time left for us to register our objection to help strike down this patent. i therefore ask my colleagues to vote for this resolution and mr blokland’s amendment.
mr president, i should like to take this opportunity to comment on two specific aspects of budgetary policy: the common agricultural policy and the peace initiative. after what i have heard in this house this morning, i want to state a very basic fact: we cannot, in any way, go back on our word as regards the common agricultural policy, in relation to the budget or to the wto talks. we have signed off the common agricultural policy. we gave our word in berlin in 2002 and we must keep our word. our word should be our bond. to amend that in any way would mean to lose all credibility. that we cannot do in the context of development in rural europe, which is as important as developing any other aspects of european policy. i should like say, as did my colleague, the irish minister for agriculture, mrs coughlan, and others, that we must keep the promise we made. our promise on the cap should not be in any way reneged on until 2013, as we said in berlin. i should also like to comment on the peace ii initiative. as members of this house will know, the peace ii programme supports a range of political initiatives in northern ireland and in the border county region of ireland. that peace programme has been vitally important to developments in my country. i want that to continue, along with the good work that this house and, indeed, the european union have done for the peace programme, into the next round of structural funds between 2007 and 2013. i thank the rapporteurs for their good work and hope that the continuation of the promises made will enhance the union and the programmes that it has initiated.
in writing. mr. mccreevy made it clear last night when speaking on this subject that he does not intend to respect the directive prohibiting any human cloning when he said that even though reproductive cloning was excluded under the directive he left the door open for the possibility of therapeutic cloning. in doing this mccreevy is once again giving "the two finger". this time to the council of minister and the biopatents directive." a. council memorandum on the common position on the biopatnents directive states, at point 35, that:'at (a) in paragraph 2, the council replaced 'pocedures for human reproductive cloning' with 'procedure for the cloning of human beings', since it thought the adjective 'reproductive' could be too restrictive. it was understood that the words 'human being' referred to human being from embryonic state'. it would seem that mr. mcreevy is anticipating is ignoring the eu's existing directives and anticipating the now defunct constitution.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for meeting with us again today. i would also like to thank the president of the commission for being with us. having listened to some of the contributions from both the prime minister and some of my colleagues as presidents of groups, the situation could be summed up in words such as ‘meeting the challenge of globalisation’ and ‘exploiting the opportunities that it brings’. in reality, when we look at what we have to deal with at the forthcoming european council informal summit, there should be four guiding principles towards that: solidarity, generosity, responsibility and capacity. the solidarity in question is to ensure that there is protection not only of the social model, as we see it, with the basic tenets of what that social model should contain, but also that there is solidarity with our fellow member states and those who require the most income now and the most transfer of wealth to assist them in the redevelopment and upgrading of their infrastructure, systems and markets. there should be generosity, by the richer and larger member states, towards the smaller states to ensure that they are protected and are given the opportunity to exploit these new advantages. there should be capacity, to ensure that we can deliver on behalf of our citizens, because whatever ideology you speak of, whatever ‘-ism’ you want to put to it, the real test of political work, the real test of new legislation, is about improving people’s lives on a daily basis, making sure that the lives of the ordinary man and woman on the street are better, that they have employment, social security, a proper health service and a proper education service. these are the real issues that should face us as we go forward. finally, we should put the negotiations on the financial perspectives into a smaller context, because – whatever the percentages involved – the responsibility, the capacity, the generosity and the solidarity that i spoke of are equally as important in that area. but let us not overturn an agreement on the common agricultural policy that was made in 2002. let us ensure that we do not drive against one section of society for the so-called benefit of other sections of society. farmers and agricultural workers have had a difficult enough time up to now. i say to you, mr blair: be strong, be firm, be true, but most importantly of all, be not afraid. to paraphrase george bernard shaw: some men see things as they are and wonder why; i dream things as they should be and say, why not?
i would like to thank the minister for his reply; i certainly share his concerns. however, recently in ireland an irish citizen won an international lottery of some eur 100 million – i cannot remember the exact figure. there was immediately something in the region of 60 hits on her private social security file and extra hits on her private taxation file, which the revenue commissioners are examining. it seems to me that we need to take care to ensure that information within the public service is not actually used by terrorists as a source of intelligence, where organisations like the provisional ira sometimes have their intelligence officers in situ in the public service. i would ask the minister to be very careful to ensure that there are proper checks and balances and that those who abuse for their own purpose intelligence or information gathered in any way in the public interest are dealt with very severely. i would like to make one other point: i understand that private detectives, for example, have people within the various public services, but they pay ... (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr mavrommatis, for his report, which is a very useful document. it allows the commission to take into account the views of the european parliament on a number of important issues raised by the ombudsman in his annual report for 2004. let me say that, for me, the commission’s relationship with the ombudsman is about firmly engaging ourselves to guarantee good administration and openness and, ultimately, democracy. the same applies to our relations with parliament’s committee on petitions. to me, the european ombudsman has an essential role in building bridges between citizens and the european union. his actions contribute to enhancing the commission’s interaction and communication with citizens. the commission, therefore, will continue to look at different ways of further promoting its cooperation with and commitment to the european ombudsman. as is rightly pointed out in mr mavrommatis’ report, the number of complaints to the european institutions and bodies addressed by the ombudsman rose by 53% in 2004. i agree with the ombudsman’s annual report that this reflects europeans’ increasing awareness of the european ombudsman, which is a development that we should welcome. in light of the commission’s dedication further to improving and promoting its cooperation with the ombudsman, i would like to take the opportunity to highlight the very recent reform of the commission’s internal procedures. the reform aims at strengthening the guarantees of strong political ownership by each commissioner as regards ombudsman enquiries within his or her domain. the commission has decided to replace the existing empowerment – at present granted to the president alone – with an empowerment granted to the commissioner in charge of the subject-matter of the enquiry addressed to the ombudsman. in parallel, the commission secretariat-general reinforces its role as guardian of the political and administrative coherence and consistency of the commission’s final replies to the ombudsman. this reform will enter into force on 1 november 2005. furthermore, the commission needs to strengthen its efforts to agree to friendly solutions proposed by the european ombudsman. recommendations for the commission to follow up certain aspects in order to remedy problems highlighted by different cases need to be taken into account promptly. proposing solutions that give satisfaction to the citizen and to the administration is one of the main tools of the ombudsman. it should be underlined again that the ombudsman’s inquiries often not only produce positive results for the complainants but also help to improve the quality of our administrative services. mr mavrommatis’ report touches upon the issue of transparency, regarding in particular the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on access to documents, a fundamental right of citizens. the report also points out that regulation 1049/2001 now applies to community agencies. we can also confirm that we examine applications for access to documents with the utmost care and that derogations from the right of access are applied on a case-by-case basis. the role of the ombudsman in this field is really important. we have made significant progress in the direction of better and more transparency. this is the case in particular for access to documents in infringement procedures. it is essential that the commission should have the necessary room for manoeuvre to conduct its procedure totally independently. in these cases, a balance needs to be found between the transparency principle and confidentiality. for closed infringement procedures, the commission has reviewed its practices and, in principle, documents have now been made available. the commission is set on applying procedures that will allow the european ombudsman to do his job. for example, it is now possible for the ombudsman to inspect files. it allows him to verify the completeness and accuracy of the information supplied by the community institution or body concerned. it is, therefore, an important guarantee to the complainant and to the public that the ombudsman can conduct a thorough and complete investigation. the commission attaches great importance to the issue of a code of good administrative behaviour, with binding effect upon all the eu institutions and bodies. we consider this matter with an open mind. the commission’s own code entered into force in november 2000. we will report to the bodies concerned the results of our reflections on this issue. the recent creation of a european school of administration increases the importance of this matter. the proposal for a new constitutional treaty would give the union a specific legal base to act on this. however, considering the situation, we need to look at the issue differently. nevertheless, a positive conclusion on this dossier is possible and i hope that we can arrive at the result proposed by the ombudsman and the rapporteur. let me say a few words on the ombudsman’s statute. during his visit to the college of commissioners on 25 may 2005, mr diamandouros informed the commission that he had asked the european parliament to review certain aspects of the ombudsman’s statute. he would like in particular to be entitled to intervene in proceedings before the court of justice in cases relating to alleged violations of the rights set out in the charter of fundamental rights. it should be noted that, on this subject, it is the european parliament that has the right of initiative and acts by majority vote, subject to council approval, with the commission merely issuing an opinion. the commission will examine any new initiative in this respect with the utmost care and an open mind. our willingness to cooperate with the ombudsman is not only our obligation but is also very important for better administration. this is the reason why we welcome your report. let me assure you that we continue to engage the commission to work even closer with the ombudsman and with parliament’s committee on petitions.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome mr mavrommatis's report and, indeed, i welcome the european ombudsman here today to the european parliament. the ombudsman's office is a direct link between the citizen and europe; it enables citizens to make known their concerns about maladministration at european level. the committee of which i am a member and which prepared this report, the committee on petitions, equally, is a direct link with the citizen, but has a different role in that it enables citizens to ensure that authorities in the member state comply with european rules, regulations, funding etc. so the ombudsman and the european parliament's petitions committee are, in a sense, complementary to each other. the very existence of the ombudsman's office, i believe, is a deterrent to maladministration, and the 10th anniversary of that office deserves a review of the statute. i do hope that this parliament, which has that responsibility, will undertake that in the course of the next 12 months. the ombudsman's office clearly has resolved many problems, but it has not been in a position to resolve them all. indeed, the fact that 75 % of the complaints the ombudsman's office receives do not relate directly to european union institutions and problems therein is, in my view, not necessarily a bad thing. it demonstrates that people are aware that there is a body there that can help them, and the fact that the ombudsman's office refers them to the appropriate area where they may receive a resolution of their problem is an important service. i would like to mention a number of issues here; one relates to the european schools. a report is in preparation on the issue of funding for the european schools to enable children with special needs to be catered for, in the same way that all children attending european schools are catered for, free of charge with compulsory education. that is a matter the commission, and specifically the commissioner responsible for the budget of the european schools, has to address. unless the commission brings forward a detailed analysis of the money required in order to enable the schools to do their job properly, either in providing the special needs education within the schools or providing that education outside of those schools, then we are failing as a union, and, indeed, as an employer of the parents of these children. the other issue i want to refer to is the code of good administrative behaviour. as has already been mentioned, this has been adopted by this parliament; this parliament itself operates by it and the council operates by it. there is absolutely no reason why the commission should not buy into that code of good administrative behaviour, so that we would have a common code for all three institutions. i would appeal to commissioner wallström to address that issue and to raise the matter with the college of commissioners. the final point i want to make relates to the most recent special report, which is a rarity – special reports from the ombudsman are a rarity – relating to the need for the council to meet in public when making law. your job in promoting the plan d – debate, democracy and dialogue – is being undermined by the fact that the council continues to refuse to make law in public. we would not accept that from this parliament or from any national parliament; the council should not be allowed to get away with it.
in writing. i support the pittella report including amendments 3004 & 3005, which restore €12 million of the 2006 funding for peace 11 to the technical assistance/innovative actions budget-heading. the member states must ensure the budgetary flexibility required in no way endangers continued full funding of peace 11, as envisaged last year when funding for that programme was guaranteed into 2006. the socialist group played a key role in securing €108 million for ireland's peace 11 programme for 2006, and continues to pledge its full support for the programme. john hume, a former member of the socialist group was the architect of the peace programme and its contribution to reconciliation has been enormous. if we are to succeed in bringing communities together from both sides of the sectarian divide continued funding for the peace programme is crucialwe must also support the sdlp campaign for a peace 111 programme by earmarking €200 million in the 2007-2013 budget. i hope minister noel tracy takes this up urgently and all member states ensure smooth administration of arrangements for finalising the peace 11 funding, and guarantee continuing funding for a peace 111 programme for 2007-2013.
author. – mr president, i am pleased and relieved to have an opportunity to speak in favour of the joint resolution. i want to make quite clear my absolute rejection of attempts by the president of parliament and the conference of presidents to set aside this motion on the human rights situation in western sahara until after the visit and conclusion of some future eu delegation. the decision was made to move ahead with this urgency on the western sahara through the normal and proper channels. different group motions were debated and a compromise common text was agreed and a decision taken by plenary. last-minute efforts to shelve the motion, without consultation, threatened to set a dangerous precedent that, in my view, would have significantly damaged the credibility both of the urgency procedure and perhaps, more importantly, parliament’s work on human rights issues generally. on human rights questions, the politics of the issue should be secondary to the need to outline concerns and criticisms – if they are warranted – based on credible facts. the politics of the western sahara issue is complex and i want to focus my remarks primarily on human rights, although, obviously, there is a crossover between the two. this motion welcomes and recognises the freeing of moroccan prisoners of war but demands that the moroccan authorities release human rights defenders. it also calls for the release of sahrawi political prisoners and assistance from the authorities in solving the question of the disappeared. we are calling on both sides to cooperate fully with the international red cross on the question of the disappeared and missing since the conflict began. the motion insists on the protection of the population of western sahara generally and in a manner consistent with the universal declaration of human rights, specifically in the area of freedom of expression and freedom of movement and calls for any final political resolution to be consistent with international law and the relevant un security council resolution. finally, the motion demands open access to all territories in western sahara for independent observers, ngos and the free media. i am glad to support the motion and commend it to the house.
author. – mr president, i apologise. i should, of course, have acknowledged the presence of the commissioner the last time i spoke, but i will this time. i am pleased to have an opportunity to speak briefly on the motion on uzbekistan. uzbekistan is a large and very influential country in central asia. its stability directly impinges on the whole region and the eu has rightly attempted to build contacts and a relationship with this geographically close and significant neighbour. for me, however, this motion has one main focus: to ask again what happened in andijan last may and to make a further call for an open and independent inquiry. there seems to be a view that, by asking for the truth to be established, we are in some way taking sides against the uzbek authorities. the eu has human rights and international law at the centre of its value system and it is our responsibility to call for the truth behind this tragedy. to date, there are three versions of the ‘truth’. firstly, the official uzbek and the president karimov version, according to which the killings were ‘a measured response to an islamist uprising where 187 criminals were killed’. next, there is the media and ngo version, which reports a bloodbath where women and children were mowed down by armed police, bodies were dragged to a school nearby and left lying there until the following day, some of them not dead, and then taken to hospital. we do not even know the numbers that were killed. reports vary between 500 and 1500 people. thirdly, there are the locals in andijan, most of them silenced or suffering from amnesia, basically afraid to speak out because some who have done so have disappeared. the eu must insist on an independent inquiry and we must take action that will ensure that, if we are refused that, it will have implications for the relationship between uzbekistan and the european union.
mr president, ‘those who die are lucky’: those are the words of a palestinian woman i met in gaza last week who has worked for 20 years for peace and for women’s rights in that area. her hope has been shattered by israel’s continued intransigence in refusing to allow the economic development of gaza by the free flow of people and goods into egypt from the gaza strip via the rafah crossing and the refusal to allow the development of an airport or a port. half the population of gaza is under 25 years of age and there is 60% unemployment in the area. israel must be persuaded by europe that frustrating the economic development of gaza is counterproductive for israel’s own security; it should also, in my view, be counterproductive for israel’s trade relations with europe. the imprisoning of gaza’s population behind walls and barbed wire fences must end immediately if a political and security disaster for the palestinian people is to be averted. the situation is grim and it is urgent. i would urge you to impress on the commission and the council that israel must be persuaded to end its veto on the development of the gaza strip.
mr president, i want to raise the irish ferries shipping company’s plans to replace over 500 employees with low-paid slave labour provided by agency workers, many from outside the european union. this practice of social dumping is wholly unacceptable and the european union has a responsibility to protect the rights of all workers, including seafarers who work european waters. the wage rates and secondary benefits afforded to seafarers must be in line with those applicable in the relevant member states. irish ferries must honour its agreements with workers and trade unions in the company. there is no case for breaking these agreements. we need a european ferries directive to ensure that irish ferries and other companies like it cannot ride roughshod over the rights of workers present and future. this parliament must actively oppose the ‘race to the bottom’ approach to employment and working conditions which is now rife within the european union.
mr president, evictions are a very emotive issue in ireland given our long and painful history, so it is with some regret that we have seen the question come to the fore again in recent times, particularly last week on the streets of dublin. this poster reads ‘stop mandelson’s evictions’ and it represents the voice of 5000 farmers last week. a colleague spoke about it earlier. there is a real fear that what is happening at the wto will mean the death knell for many farmers, not just in ireland, but throughout the european union. i have three messages for the commission at wto level. any deal on agriculture cannot come at any price: it must be balanced and fair. where there is increased market access we must be sensitive to some products; if the markets are to be destabilised we have to bring in mechanisms to control that destabilisation. and i would suggest that the eu should only import food produced under the standards it demands of its own producers, and not accept lower standards in relation to animal welfare, food safety and the environment.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for his work. all too often, when we talk about globalisation, our comments and concerns centre solely on trade, rather than on the social aspects of globalisation. in fact, the european union can play a very significant role in disseminating best practices through what we have achieved in the union itself. despite the faults that exist within the european system, there are also many good and positive things. i wish to give just one example of this. two weeks ago i was in nairobi. in one of the slums there i visited a school which has 1 690 students and 22 teachers. the principal of that school was earning the equivalent of eur 150 per month. the only reason there were so many children going to the school was because they were given food donated by the european union and the world food programme. they were being encouraged to learn but were also being fed. i am reminded of the saying ‘give a man a fish and you feed him for a day, but teach a man to fish and you feed him for life’. one of the most important aspects of the social aspect of globalisation is education, because no matter how many trade issues you deal with or how many preferential trade deals you give to developing countries, the people in those countries will never be able to climb out of the pit of poverty to which so many of them are consigned unless they are given proper access to education and healthcare and an understanding of how systems operate. our role, our duty and our responsibility, be it in world trade or in the united nations, or even within our own development aid actions, should be to ensure, first and foremost, that when we speak about globalisation we place people at the centre of the debate. it is not just about trading blocs. it is not just about economic returns. it is about ensuring that the world itself is a better place for future generations. that can only be achieved if we invest in the people themselves. (applause)
madam president, we live in a global environment and many of our political problems are tackled within a multilateral framework. this is clearly, therefore, the structure we should use in addressing global problems such as poverty. i welcome – as most people do – the recent initiative by the g8 to implement further the process of debt relief for the third world. this is only right and proper, as debt relief is presently crippling many countries in the third world. the highly indebted poor countries initiative achieved moderate success in tackling debt relief for the 42 poorest countries in the world, but this was only an initial effort by the developed world to tackle the problem of debt relief itself. the european union is the largest contributor of development aid in the world and therefore must continue to show real leadership when it comes to addressing humanitarian and development aid problems in the world. i also believe that the wto is the best structure to open up competition in the industrial services and trading sectors. it is in all our interests that a multilateral framework be put in place to govern the trading relations of the 150 different members of the wto at this time. it is therefore evident that tough decisions will have to be taken if a deal is to be reached in time for the hong kong ministerial round next month. i do not want to see a repeat of the cancun round of wto talks, which was a lost opportunity and, indeed, set progress back in this regard by at least two years.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i wish to thank president barroso and the entire commission for being here this morning. it is a pity that parliament could not reciprocate with an equivalent level of attendance. one of the key factors in assessing the work programme is to verify that the ideas and proposals put forward in it respond to the current needs of the citizens of the european union. i should like to refer briefly to one or two points president barroso made in his presentation. he rightly spoke about the importance of the doha round and the impact that will have, not just within europe but around the globe, on increasing trade and also on delivering on aspects of social justice, though not a comprehensive package of social justice. however, despite president barroso’s reassurances, i am somewhat concerned at the attempts being made by people within the commission and within this parliament, in preparation for the hong kong round of talks, to demand more of european farmers. farmers are being asked to make further reductions and sacrifices, despite being told that the 1999 reform constituted a final settlement on the cap. they were then told, in 2003 and 2004, that further adjustments had to be made to take account of the approaching world trade organization talks. suddenly we discover that even more demands are being made on the european agricultural sector. these are demands that cannot be met if we want to maintain a viable, sustainable agricultural sector within the european union for the future. this is not just about protecting farmers’ interests; it is also a very clear and important issue regarding food security, security of food supply and of the standard and quality of food, and security as regards ensuring that biodiversity and the available alternatives are maintained in the rural areas of europe. moving on to the various proposals within the work programme, i welcome the initiatives now being taken on a communication on children’s rights. it is high time that the european union took the rights of children seriously, as they constitute over 40% of our population but have no standing or status in european policies or ideas, except in the words we use to express our will to protect them. owing to technological progress, those ideas on children’s rights must now also be linked into cyber security, as we have seen the internet – despite its wonderful intent, brilliant innovation and the opportunities it presents to us all – being used by people who wish to corrupt innocent minds and pervert the use of the internet through trafficking in paedophilia and child pornography. with regard to sustainability, the rising price of oil and fuel in recent months has sent shockwaves through each and every economy, as well as shocking private consumers. let us not forget that the price of oil has an impact not just on the economy as a whole, but also on you and me and all individual consumers, not only in the fuel we put into our cars, but also in the price of goods in our shops, our journeys to and from work and so on. the time is ripe to move towards a common european market in energy in which we can utilise the collective strength of the 25 member states to lever a better price, and to bring together the minds, intelligence and innovation available in those 25 countries to look into alternative fuel supplies, and in particular to look into new ways and new mechanisms for conserving energy. that is why the proposal for a biofuels directive is also to be welcomed. however, greater focus should be placed on solar, wind and water energy, as this can also contribute a great deal towards a final energy plan. lastly, no matter what anybody says, the financial perspective is the only game in town. if we do not have the money, we cannot undertake the actions and policies we want. however, in determining what the financial perspective should be, the onus must be on the member states to come up with a package, because once again they are the paymasters of future european union action. the decision as to whether to contribute monies to the funds we need to implement these important measures rests with them. the fact that the governments have so far failed to reach agreement on this is unacceptable to everyone. in fact, it is ironic that the governments of the new member states are the ones giving the lead on how to resolve the financial perspectives issue. however, we must not use this failure to secure an agreement as an excuse to block, hinder or stymie the efforts that can currently be made. i welcome the opportunity to work with you, president barroso, and with your commission to deliver on this programme.
mr president, i shall be brief. i voted against the brejc report for the very reasons that some of my colleagues have outlined. this house does not appear to read its own documents. the common agricultural policy has been radically reformed, and this morning’s vote basically gives truth to the lie that if we reduced all eu agriculture subsidies the poor in africa would be better off. nothing could be further from the truth, and i have therefore voted against this report.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i am sure there is nobody in this house who disputes the need for reach, whose primary concern is the health of the people of europe, its future generations, its young people in particular, and the environment. today there are more than 100 000 chemical products on the european market, a large majority of which have never been evaluated with regard to their long-term effects. more and more scientific research shows that modern-day illnesses such as asthma, allergies, certain types of cancer and work-related illnesses are often the result of chemical products in the environment. reach will make it easier to develop and market new and safer substances and it will greatly reassure european consumers as manufacturers, producers and importers register chemicals and supply information about their properties. reach will encourage the replacement of most hazardous substances. it will apply not only to products within all eu member states, but will also apply to imported products. while there is unanimous approval for reach’s aims, there is far less agreement over the means of achieving them, especially regarding the obligations it imposes on the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. in my own country, ireland, pharmaceutical industries account for eur 37.4 billion in exports and account for almost 40 000 jobs directly and indirectly. we must therefore avoid crippling small and medium-sized european industries with over-stringent obligations and regulations. in modern life, chemicals play an essential role in the economy. we all need chemicals as part of everyday life, but we also need to guarantee their safety. reach can provide that guarantee and information, but we must be careful not to destroy these industries as well. the key to this debate is balance. i believe that, with the amount of effort that various members of committees have put in, particularly my own committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we have achieved that balance and i believe that this proposal should be acceptable to the house.
mr president, in response to criticism that the existing regime for regulating chemicals – a complicated maze of some 40 separate directives – was slow, overly rigorous and stifled innovation, you only have to witness the 14-year saga on zinc-risk analysis, yet to be concluded, the european commission proposed a new chemicals regime in october 2003, following extensive stakeholder consultation. this reach regulation aims to maintain a strong chemicals industry within the internal market, while providing a high level of protection for human health and the environment. it proposes to simplify the procedure for registering new and existing substances and it will increase our knowledge of their effects and ensure safe use at all stages in their lifecycle. downstream users of chemicals, which include the vast majority of smes, will benefit significantly from this information. with only two minutes available to me, i have to be selective. i support the compromise on registration, together with the amendment to limit the cost for smes, and the minimisation of animal testing. i also feel that inorganic substances must be handled differently to organic chemicals. we need the highest possible level of confidentiality for business, while not compromising human health and the environment, by allowing registrants to use third-party representatives where possible and by protecting against the publication of sensitive business information on the agency’s website. i would, however, like to focus on the proposal to include the chemicals used in tobacco products under reach. it is very much in the interests of smokers to know exactly what chemicals are contained in tobacco products and for them to be able to exercise informed choice. article 3 of the tobacco products directive sets limit values for tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide only. it does not limit the use of the other 2 000 or so chemicals used in cigarettes. article 6 of the same directive only requires cigarette manufacturers and importers to list the chemicals contained in cigarettes and to report on the toxicological data available to them to the member states, who are then required to inform the commission. this allows tobacco manufacturers to continue to plead ignorance of any detrimental effects on human health of these additives. i will conclude, mr president: this is why it is essential that each and every one of the chemicals added to cigarettes goes through the centralised registration and authorisation procedure envisaged in reach. i urge you to support my amendments. we in the european parliament, the council and the commission cannot renege on our responsibility here. i thank mr sacconi and all involved in this very difficult piece of legislation: a work in progress.
i have a question for mr mandelson on the same issue, so perhaps he might oblige and answer the question privately?
mr president, i wish to summarise the situation. two nuclear power plants have grown old and unsafe and must be decommissioned. the cost of closing the plants is almost eur 2 billion. the ongoing maintenance of the closed plants will require the employment of an expert team for several decades or maybe a century. it has to be done and we are being told that the eu has to do it. past mistakes are expensive. the only positive value of this disastrous situation is as a lesson for the future. will we treat it as such? will we learn from the consequences of our romance with nuclear power? in the countries that decide to privatise their plants or change ownership, a dangerous game of hot potato is played with the responsibility of paying the decommissioning costs. we know that a nuclear power plant will not last indefinitely, but do we consider this before they are built? decommissioning costs should be calculated in from the very beginning and someone must then step forward and take responsibility for the financial and organisational burden of cleaning up the nuclear waste that will be left behind. twenty-eight years ago des o’malley, then minister for industry and commerce, told us that ireland would not survive without nuclear power. we were told that we would be sitting in the dark without lights, that we would have to abandon our milking machines and go back to milking by hand and that we would have electricity rationing. because the irish people thought about the future, they said no. they considered the kind of problems we now face in decommissioning the two plants we are talking about and many other ageing nuclear monsters. ireland did not shut down for lack of nuclear power. we still do not have nuclear power and we have the strongest economy in the eu. ireland’s economy has developed strongly despite the fact the country does not have nuclear power. i want to pay tribute to the irish anti-nuclear campaigners. i would also like to use this opportunity to ask decision-makers to consider the lessons of lithuania, slovakia and ireland before deciding to set up a new generation of nuclear power plants. there are better, safer and cheaper ways to keep the wheels turning and the lights on.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, a decade ago there was much speculation about climate change, but today it is very much a reality as we see the future unfolding before our eyes. the arctic people see it in disappearing arctic ice; the shantytown dwellers of latin america and southern asia see it in lethal storms and floods; europeans see it in disappearing glaciers, forest fires and fatal heatwaves. in brazil this year, for example, while hurricanes thousands of miles away battered the united states and the caribbean with water and wind, residents of a small fishing town deep in the amazon region watched the lake on which they depend for food and transportation shrivel away in a year which saw the region’s worst drought in four decades: the result of warmer ocean water, which has also been blamed for one of the most violent hurricane seasons on record in the gulf of mexico. the signing of the ratification protocol for kyoto by some of the major players has been a much-welcomed event. the kyoto protocol is off life support because the russian federation ratified it. however, major players now need to be more proactive in convincing countries with the highest levels of pollution: the united states and developing countries. i remain deeply concerned that the united states continues to choose to tackle the climate change issue through unilateral activities. climate change needs to be dealt with as a global problem. if carbon dioxide is not reduced, the arctic ice cover will disappear. that will affect the quality of life in particular of those living in coastal regions and island communities. that is a scientific fact, not a passionate policy comment on my part. ireland is much more energy efficient than it was a decade ago. i encourage other member states to follow suit. tackling climate change was never labelled as being easy, but complacency in dealing with it is far worse. what is a fact, and what surprises many people, is that because of the level of greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere, we are already committed to a significant amount of global warming and rising sea levels. if we became a perfect pupil now in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, we would still suffer from past pollution, but the longer we wait to tackle greenhouse gas emissions in a serious manner, the more entrenched the commitment is. temperature rises have already been noted. the half-a-degree temperature rise is similar to that observed at the end to the twentieth century. however, what is more alarming is the projected sea-level rise, which is more than twice the three-inch rise that occurred during the latter part of the previous century. those numbers do not take into account the fresh water from melting ice sheets and glaciers, which could at least double the sea-level rise caused by thermal expansion alone. scientists have claimed that water temperatures in the north atlantic and the gulf of mexico have been as much as 3.6 degrees higher than normal this year. that has helped to feed the hurricanes that have devastated the us gulf coast and the caribbean. it has also helped to generate the warmer-than-normal air currents that have poured into the amazon basin and prevented rain clouds from forming. greenpeace has warned that this year’s experience could be a sign of things to come if practices such as deforestation and emissions of heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere do not stop. by tackling climate change in a serious manner, we not only help to preserve our planet for our grandchildren and future generations, but we would also save them and ourselves monetary cost, given that the climate change costs incurred as we aim to protect disappearing species and habitats are very high. evolving players such as south asia, latin america and africa require emission reduction policies that will not harm their economic development. climate change policies thus need to be designed to contribute to economic growth in the developing countries. as i travel to montreal next month as part of the european delegation, i look forward to seeing the global players face the reality of this year and work together as partners in tackling this extremely important global problem.
mr president, the debate is just about over and the scientific jury is largely agreed on the impact of greenhouse gases on our climate. economic losses due to weather-related natural catastrophes have increased six-fold since the 1960s. the earth’s temperature is rising at an alarming rate. the eu 15 will not meet their current kyoto targets on co2 emissions reduction and nothing will be done about that. at the cop 11/mop 1 meeting in montreal next month, the focus will be on post-kyoto and on what happens beyond 2012. without genuine global cooperation, particularly from the world’s largest producer of greenhouse gases, the us, any agreement will be meaningless. it is a huge challenge. we await the commission’s review of the operation of the emissions trading regime next june to keep the cynics and the ‘i told you so’s’ at bay and to maintain the credibility of the emissions trading scheme. it is essential that we broaden its scope and set horizontal sectoral targets. too many sectors are excluded, which creates gaps and inefficiencies in the market, which risk pushing up the cost of doing business. we are still only paying lip service to the whole area of energy efficiency, which has an enormous contribution to make. we also need to focus on the development of substitute fuels and alternative technologies. public transport vehicles and captive fleets should use clean and alternative fuels to provide a stimulus for the market, for the private sector, and to kick start the process of installing a network of forecourt outlets. we need excise regimes that favour bio-fuels and bio-flexi-fuels. why not legislate for all motor fuels to include a blend of fuel from renewable sources, for example 5% bio-ethanol mix in petrol, 2% bio-diesel mix in diesel vehicles, without any alteration necessary to the vehicles? we need some radical thinking and radical action. if we are convinced that co2 emissions need to be reduced dramatically, then we have to stop tinkering at the margins of renewable energy and to achieve genuine liberalisation for electricity markets. let us put our money where our mouth is, look at fp7 and invest in this area.
in writing. i fully support the de veyrac report calling for an eu-wide blacklist of air carriers which do not meet international aircraft safety standards. these carriers should be named and shamed under the principal of zero tolerance throughout the community. at the end of the day all eu citizens want safe flights when travelling inside and outside the community and we cannot compromise on this objective. i also firmly believe that the information contained on the blacklist needs to be easily accessible and widely available to all stakeholders (national civil aviation authorities, all eu airports and of course passengers). as a member of the transport committee i believe it is the role of the european parliament, as co-legislator, to do everything possible to have such a list quickly established. i believe it is equally vital that the blacklist should also cover aircraft chartered from companies in non-eu countries and member states should provide the european commission with a list of carriers banned from their airspace. co-operation and co-ordination is the key. in this respect the role of the european safety agency needs to be increased in checking international standards and issuing certificates of approval. i reiterate the point that we cannot compromise in any respect the safety of our eu citizens.
mr president, i too wish to express my concern at what mr batten said, and urge that action be taken to have him withdraw those insulting remarks relating to members of this house. commissioner, the european code on arms exports has a number of shortcomings, the most glaring of which is the fact that it is not legally binding. there is also, however, a need for clarification of the language and the application of the code. there is a need for its scope to be broadened, and indeed there is a need for greater transparency and accessibility of information in relation to, in particular, the annual reports and the denial notifications. a number of members have mentioned that some eu member states are actually in breach of the code, while declaring themselves determined to prevent the export of equipment which might be used for internal repression or international aggression, or indeed contribute to regional instability. they have allowed arms and security equipment to be transferred for illicit end use. finally, on 20 september, in reply to a question i put to you, you indicated that you intend to draft a communication on small arms and light weapons before the end of 2006. might i suggest that it would be more appropriate to have that communication published and debated in this house before the middle of next year, which is in fact when the united nations are holding a conference on small arms and light weapons.
mr president, i want to use this debate as an opportunity to highlight the impact that small arms and light weapons are having on the human rights of so many people. it is not the so-called weapons of mass destruction that are currently causing the vast majority of tragedies and conflicts across the globe. it should perhaps be small arms and light weapons that are considered to be the weapons causing the most mass destruction. i am impressed with and support the report before us on eu arms exports and i want to congratulate the rapporteur for the job that he has done. the eu voluntary code of conduct has had some success in ensuring standards. however, the end goal must be to bring about an acceptance for a legally binding code and this parliament should be consistent in calling for that. time and time again, the eu is happy to take the high moral ground on human rights issues and on calling for adherence to international standards and law. we must show leadership and lead by example on the trade in arms to have credibility to bring about change outside the union in arms trade standards. we should not fear a legally binding code but see it as an opportunity for the eu as regards raising standards in arms export policy. the four major eu arms suppliers have dramatically increased their share of arms sales to the developing world in the last year. in 2004, usd 4.8 billion of business was done, which is more than 22% of total arms sales. when one considers that almost half a million people are killed every year by small arms, then the significance of the small arms trade becomes clear. i support the concept of the creation of a so-called blacklist of countries that should not have arms sold to them from the eu. the criteria for such a list should be applied equally, however, on a set of standards based on human rights violations and instability. finally, i want to urge the commission to use all opportunities available to it to promote an acceptance for an international small arms treaty in order to move forward a common standard approach for arms sales internationally. too many rogue states, irresponsible governments, military dictators and gangland-style leaders have easy access to weapons that are used to brutal and corrupt effect, resulting in a spiral of demand for small arms and light weapons in the many small-scale conflicts that persist. the fact that the developed world continues to tolerate the sale of weapons to such people should be a cause for serious and continuing concern in this house.
in writing. i, along with many of my colleagues have been deeply involved in many meetings and discussions on this particular dossier. indeed the level of divergence on this issue is reflected by the many amendments which have been put forward and which led to such a long and arduous voting session. even though i have many concerns with regard the approval of many of the amendments, and also on the many inconsistencies which these have raised, i voted in favour of the report, firstly to allow the first reading process to completed and secondly, because i believe that when we return to this issue at second reading the text will have been improved. i obviously wish to see human and public health being protected, as well as the environment, however we must not loose sight of the fact that to allow new processes to be developed, new products to be created and new innovations to be made available for the greater good, we cannot impose huge restrictions on businesses, which would prevent them from having certainty with regard the business, regulatory and administrative environs within which they must operate.
mr president, i am pleased to have an opportunity to speak briefly on what has been an appalling tragedy in north-western pakistan, afghanistan, india and predominantly the kashmir region. the devastation caused by the earthquake is hard to comprehend, even after seeing repeated pictures of the suffering on our media screens and newspapers. the last 12 months has seen so many tragedies and natural disasters that have hit parts of the world: tsunamis, drought, mudslides, floods, repeated hurricanes, typhoons and now an earthquake. it is difficult to keep a focus and priority on the need for generosity and rapid relief, as we almost become conditioned to natural disaster after natural disaster. in the immediate term, the need to assemble aid and coordinate its distribution is fundamental, particularly in inaccessible parts of the disaster zones. tens of thousands are still without shelter in inaccessible parts of pakistan and kashmir, and the freezing temperatures of winter are approaching. the politics of this region must be put aside in an effort to save lives, and this motion welcomes the coordination and opening of new routes between india-controlled kashmir and the pakistan side. we fully support an immediate and generous response to the call by the un for donors to contribute more than half a billion dollars in emergency aid, much of which has not materialised yet. i hope the commission will be able to make further funds available during budgetary discussions next week. related to this motion, i believe the eu needs to show some initiative in encouraging the international community to plan for and prepare for natural disasters in the future. the reality is that natural disasters in many cases are predictable. we know the likely areas where hurricanes will strike next year and where earthquakes may strike, and we need to concentrate on building regional capacity in those regions rather than the kind of dramatic aid efforts that we are now involved in. so we need longer-term and future planning as well as the immediate aid requirements.
author. – mr president, what continues in burma is appalling. military dictatorship continues to rule by force, despite recent ceasefire talks and agreements. resistance is still being dealt with by brutal military response. i visited the thai-burmese border two weeks ago for six days. i had the opportunity to visit refugee camps in thailand that are overflowing with people who have fled from burma’s karen province and karenni province. the human rights situation inside burma within ethnic provinces is hugely concerning. the reality of war and military leaders acting with impunity results in repression and abuse: forced relocation of communities and destruction of villages, thousands of internally displaced people living in the forest, the rape of women and girls – many such incidents documented by human rights organisations, forced labour, the use of up to 60 000 child soldiers – i met two young 16-year-old defectors from the burmese armies, and the random use of landmines by both sides littering the jungle to lethal effect. the main focus of this resolution is to nudge the international community forward, to ensure that burma is put on the un security council agenda as soon as possible. the report by vaclav havel and desmond tutu makes a real, legal and valid case for bringing the burma issue to the un security council, and i support it. the solution to the suffering and repression in burma is not primarily about aid, although aid is required to relieve suffering. a lasting solution must be a political one. we need a real ceasefire. we need talks between the government the spdc, the national league for democracy and ethnic groups, with all groups having an equal level of participation. we need the release of all political prisoners, and we need to allow democracy to govern. i have no confidence that, without sustained international pressure at the highest possible level, burma will make the positive transition to democracy. i encourage the eu member states on the un security council to take a more proactive role in getting burma on to the security council agenda, in particular britain. it is somewhat ironic that it is the us that is taking the lead on this issue despite the historic links and relationship between britain, burma and its people. it takes 9 out of 15 members of the un security council to sign a motion to put the issue on the agenda. we currently have eight. if the political will exists, a ninth can be found and persuaded.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, recital a of our resolution says that the people of burma are subject to human rights abuses including forced labour, persecution of dissidents, conscription of child soldiers, rape and pillage by government troops and forced relocation. have we ever had a resolution before us which was so clear in terms of the abuses that we are seeking to have addressed by the european union? despite our diplomatic efforts so far, none of the conditions set by the sixth asem ministerial meeting in ireland last year, including the release of aung san suu kyi as a minimum condition, has been fulfilled by the burmese dictatorship. while some political prisoners have been released, 1 000 remain in custody and political leaders continue to be sentenced to brutal prison sentences, some of up to 106 years. forced labour continues, despite agreements with the ilo. we must strengthen our diplomatic actions in relation to burma by prohibiting investment or loans to all state-owned companies, not just those already banned. we must refuse to accept as legitimate any outcome of the national convention unless the conditions set down last year by the asem ministers are met. finally, we must mount a serious campaign at the united nations for sanctions against burma.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, we are considering the forthcoming ministerial conference in hong kong and being told not to expect too much – in other words, the plan is slowing down a little at the moment. that may be true of hong kong, but not in ireland, where a sugar industry that supported 3 500 families has just been wiped out. one might consider that a minor matter over which we should not get so upset. but what about a bigger industry, the irish beef industry, which will not be allowed to stand in the way of global corporate farming either? but then that is not an immediate priority under the plan. what is this plan i am talking about and whose outlines are becoming more distinct as things progress? in the doha development round, the plan should be about justice and ending poverty, but it seems to be more about dismantling things to make way for the big players, about getting rid of small producers, who are inefficient, democratic and difficult to control and have inconvenient notions as regards lifestyles, and about assigning each area and each country a specialty in which to work efficiently without bothering anyone. it is about reducing the number of competitors and letting the large corporations loose to do their best. that brings us to the question of what their best is. their best is to make money for their investors – that is what corporations do – and all the rest of their activities are part of this, be it a question of medical services, food or cars. the fewer the competitors, the more money; the fewer the regulations, the more money; the more customers, the more money. that is how the plan seems to be evolving. in the case of ireland this means wiping out the sugar industry and making way for corporate farmers from other countries. it means corporations installing facilities like incinerators, because ireland has been marked as being good for that. in the case of other countries it means bigger sugar industries. however, it will probably be the corporations, rather than the people, which will benefit from this, and many of them will not even be owned by nationals. in the meantime, around the world, the smaller, inefficient sectors will gradually be snuffed out. they will have to fend for themselves, because governments will not have the money, after privatising their nations’ resources, to satisfy large corporate interests.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, we all agree that it is in the interests of the european union to have a strong, fair, rule-based international trading system under the auspices of the world trade organization. that will help create trade diversification in our manufacturing and service economy base and stimulate economic growth to the benefit of european businesses and consumers alike. however, the doha round cannot simply be about what the eu is willing to concede on agriculture. other world trade organization partners must also be willing to make a success of this round, not only in the area of agriculture, but also in the industrial services and trade facilitation areas of the negotiations. the non-agricultural industrial market access negotiations must deliver tariff reductions for all products. average eu tariffs are now less than 4%, while some industrial tariffs in asia and south america are as high as 30%. the bottom line is that the doha round should ensure that average industrial tariffs outside the eu fall to less than 10%. with regard to the reform of the eu agricultural system, commissioner mandelson has succeeded in the negotiating mandate given to him by the eu governments. he has already offered an average cut of 46%, which will apply to import tariffs, although there was a clear understanding that the 1999 and 2003 cap reforms were in preparation for cuts of 36%. however, i am not talking about large-scale agricultural exports, commissioner mandelson, but about small farmers in the west and north-west of ireland, who will soon go the way of their sugar counterparts there whose trade has been wiped out. is that fair? is that a fair system? it is not and cannot be! the pretence that it is the developing countries who will benefit is totally erroneous. the real beneficiaries will be the big beef barons of south america and elsewhere.
madam president, i welcome this debate. on 12 september 2005, parliament’s subcommittee on human rights held a hearing on cambodia, laos and vietnam, as has been pointed out by previous speakers. for the ill-informed it was an eye-opener as to current human rights abuses, restrictions of freedoms and political and religious repression, with different accounts coming from each country. this motion follows previous resolutions and strongly worded paragraphs of the annual report on human rights produced by parliament last year. the motion calls on the authorities of all three countries to make progress in specific areas. in relation to cambodia, the motion calls on the authorities to engage in political and institutional reforms, to release political prisoners, to combat corruption, deforestation and displacement of people and to take measures to combat the sex tourism industry. in relation to laos, we call on the authorities to release political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, develop a multi-party system where all views and opinions can be taken into account, respect religious minorities and their rights and allow un agencies unrestricted access to all parts of the country. in relation to vietnam, we call on the authorities to promote and to allow a multi-party system to reflect different viewpoints, to end all repression of religious minority groups such as the unified buddhist church and to release vietnamese political prisoners of conscience. at the same time, we recognise that there has been some movement in this area. we also call for the safe repatriation under the cambodia/vietnam unhcr agreement. these are not unreasonable requests to make. they are consistent with the value system of the eu in relation to the promotion of human rights and democracy. the eu has formal ties with all three countries, with cooperation agreements on cambodia and laos in 1997 and vietnam in 1995. all of these agreements have human rights clauses. they should mean something and there should be consequences if they are repeatedly breached.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, 2005 is the united nations international year of sport and physical education. one of the goals of the international year is to create the right conditions for more sports-based development programmes and projects. sports transcends all boundaries. ethnic, religious, social and national differences play no role in sport. sport can play a vital role in encouraging development and sports projects can contribute to reaching the millennium development goals, especially under themes such as health, education, gender, environment, peace and human rights. however, the scourge of aids is robbing many developing countries of their finest young people. i ask you to consider the world aids day tomorrow, 1 december. there are 38 million adults and 2.3 million children living with hiv. during 2005, some 4.9 million people became newly infected with the virus. around half of the people who become infected with hiv do so before they are 25 and are killed by aids before they are 35. these people would be at the height of their sports careers if they were not ill or had they not died. africa itself is one of the centres of the best footballers in the world. at the moment, it is the continent most affected by aids. i would ask people to remain committed to achieving the millennium development goals.
mr president, i would like to use this short speech to call for the immediate reactivation of the ferries directive, which was allowed to lapse after the council of ministers failed to agree on its implementation. i believe that ireland was one of a number of countries who opposed the directive after it passed through parliament in 1999 on the grounds that it might make ferry services to peripheral regions uneconomic to run. the short-sighted and narrow economic outlook of the irish government, which disregarded workers’ rights and entitlements in favour of maximising profits has led to a situation in which 543 workers on irish ferries face redundancy and replacement by workers earning less than 50% of the irish minimum wage. their only alternative is to remain working with irish ferries and earn approximately 50% of their current salary. that is totally unacceptable. if the ferries directive were in place, it would have prevented this situation. if european citizens are to support the eu, they must be assured that the eu will deliver for them and their families. the reactivation of the ferries directive, whereby ferry workers would have the same working conditions irrespective of their nationality, would be a step in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to comment on what was said by some of the earlier speakers here. those colleagues who are concerned about flags should bear in mind that if you could eat flags, there would not be a hungry child in the world. we have too many flags as far as i am concerned. mr president, i should like to ask you to inform the commission that the irish ferries company is looking to fire its entire workforce and replace it with cheaper labour using the device of reflagging in cyprus in order to avoid irish, british and french labour law. last weekend the company placed security men on board its vessels as a bullyboy tactic seeking to force the changeover of staff. contrary to imo conventions, the company refused to allow trade union representatives to visit the crew on board. this issue has grave implications for every maritime state in the eu and it has resulted in the cancellation in ireland of social partnership negotiations. there is real fear among workers of a race to the bottom in europe. they have heard with alarm the attack by commissioner mccreevy on the swedish social model, they are deeply concerned about the country of origin principle in the services directive and now they see a profitable company pushing wages down to eur 3.60 per hour: half the legal minimum wage in ireland. in this crisis the european commission must move immediately to reintroduce to parliament and council the draft directive on manning conditions for ferries, which this parliament approved in its first stage in 1999 and which has since been blocked by the council. they should do this next tuesday at the meeting of the transport council. it is really an important issue and, unless the commission deals with it as a matter of priority, we are going to see a deepening crisis in europe.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i wish to join my colleagues not only in thanking not just the rapporteur for his work but also the commissioner for the action he has taken so far with regard to this perceived threat. i say ‘perceived’ threat because some of the headlines in the media over the last six to seven months suggest that the end of the world is imminent and there is no escape from the dangers and the risks presented by the spread of avian flu. however, when you look more closely at the scientific and empirical data available on bird flu, you see certain trends emerging. first, it does not seem to have as great or as damaging an impact on wild birds as it does on domesticated or commercial flocks. second, the only cases of human transmission of bird flu have been where people were in close contact with commercial flocks. third, and most important, there is still no known case of transmission from human being to human being. as important as it may be for us to be prudent, prepared and aware of any dangers or risks that may present themselves, it is equally wrong of us to be scaremongering as regards any immediate threat and the dangers it presents. to put this into context, more people will die in the european union from the effects of a strain of tb that is drug-resistant than will be affected by avian flu. on a global scale, more people – especially children – die every day from the effects of malaria than have been killed so far by avian influenza. we must look at these figures and put them into context, and it is important for our response to be reasoned and proportionate to the risks and dangers that actually exist. it is wonderful that the scientific committees on public health and animal health are meeting on a regular basis to update one other and exchange information on the outbreaks that have occurred close to the european union’s borders. in addition to cooperating with the world health organisation, we can put in place preparatory plans for dealing with any potential outbreaks. as we have seen with the outbreaks of foot and mouth disease, newcastle disease and other animal diseases, a policy aimed at slaughtering animals is the only sure way of killing off the disease. horrific as that may seem in a world where so many millions of people are starving because of a lack of food, in the longer term it would appear to be a better and more proportionate response. this is because, although there has been talk of vaccines and preparations for vaccines, we do not know which vaccine will work. we do not know what the exact result of a vaccine will be on the human body when trying to prevent the spread of avian flu, and will not know until such time as we allow our scientific experts to act and entrust this matter to people who know what they are talking about. i know some of my colleagues here have doubts or worries concerning the credibility or sincerity of some of the people involved in the pharmaceutical industry. however, at every stage in human health development when there has been a need or a desire to respond to a risk to human health, they have come up with solutions and answers, and we should listen to what they have to say. finally, the guidance and leadership that the commissioner has given on this issue, and the clear thinking and cool logic which has been shown, is a model that other commissioners would do well to follow when dealing with other public service issues.
mr president, i welcome this package of proposals from the commission, particularly in the context of achieving a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, which supply goods and services to other member states. streamlining vat procedures for these businesses will enhance efficiency and encourage increased activity within the internal market, feeding to the lisbon agenda, which is supposed to be the focus and aim for all of us at the moment. the one-stop-shop schemes, which are at the heart of the package, will ultimately enable new rules for cross-border businesses and business-to-consumer services to be introduced. this will have particular benefits in my own country for irish companies that deliver services electronically over the internet to consumers in other member states. the current minimum standard rate of vat fixed at 15% is due to end at the end of this year. the commission is proposing to extend it to 2010. i support that generally and, in particular, i support the decision of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to have an impact analysis on implicit and standard rates of vat in the member states, which should also consider allowing all member states the same opportunity to apply reduced rates on certain goods and services. we need to revisit the issue of special exemptions on reduced rates. my own country never applied for reduced rates. i think there are only nine member states – if my facts are correct – that have the benefit of this. we need to do something here. restaurants, catering and hospitality services need particular attention in all member states. in terms of jobs and services, these are areas which could really ignite economies throughout europe at the moment, given that tourism is one of the growing areas. currently, vat rates on food in some member states are prohibitive and need to be looked at urgently. i note that the report on the one-stop-shops and the refund of vat generally was only referred to parliament because of a change to the legal basis. i have ongoing concerns about the number of times issues around a legal basis arise in this parliament. these are consultative-only as far as parliament is concerned. however, what is happening with legal bases? what is happening in terms of commission proposals on different legal bases and the council subsequently changing or amending them or, in many cases, introducing a dual legal base? we need certainty in our law. uncertain law is bad law. we need to have an open debate on the legal basis issue in this house urgently.
rapporteur. – mr president, the proposal before us seeks to merge economic objectives with development objectives. it seeks to remove codecision, for which parliament fought for 20 years, by taking 16 regulations away and replacing them with one regulation that writes parliament out of the script. a strong and unanimous approach by the development committee, supported by three other committees, has seen some sense prevail. we can now seek to amend this proposal by referring it back to the development committee, and i very much appreciate the work done by the presidency and those in the commission who proposed a new draft. in irish one would say bi ullamh, which means be ready, be vigilant. parliament is not a rubber stamp, it has the power of codecision. that is a principle. it is not a product for sale. 37 members of my committee have signed a recommendation, on my own advice, to refer this proposal back for amendment. i hope the house will agree to that.
mr president, on behalf of my colleagues i wish to state that we voted in favour of this resolution on the wto on the understanding that the reference in paragraph 6 to the cap reform relates to the 2003 cap reforms under commissioner fischler.
in writing. i support this joint resolution on preparations for the wto conference and hope it will facilitate international trade in playing a major role in the promotion of economic development and the alleviation of poverty. i particularly support the amendment calling for: the phasing-out by 2010 of all forms of export competition, including food aid, export subsidies and state-trading entities, by all industrialised countries in parallel. it is crucial that a distinction should be made between commercial services and public services, and that public services such as water, sanitation and energy should not be dismantled or undermined in the gats. the doha round must succeed in order to strengthen the multilateral trade system to ensure the progress and harmonious development of the world economy. trade coupled with aid and debt relief is essential to the achievement of the 2015 millennium goals so concrete results with regard to the development aspects of the doha round need to be achieved during the hong kong ministerial conference.
mr president, on a point of order, may i suggest that you extend the time available for this one-minute speech?
mr president, i do not propose to prolong this issue, but i believe that the rules you are implementing in relation to these one-minute speeches are undermining their effectiveness and importance to individual members of this house, many of whom, because they come from small delegations, have little or no opportunity to put on record constituents’ current concerns. i am one of those who most often use the one-minute interventions, with good reason. i do not have other members from my delegation to stand up on my behalf, as larger delegations do. i feel, therefore, that there is unfairness in the way this matter is being addressed. i will write to you about my concerns on this, but i believe in the importance of the one-minute interventions. it was a new arrangement, introduced in the last parliamentary term – indeed, i was one of those who proposed it – in order to ensure that this house could be relevant to the day-to-day concerns of citizens. often this parliament is not, because of the long lead-in time for issues to be debated in this house. i would appreciate it if you would be open to amending the way in which this matter is being handled.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i wish to begin by apologising for the absence of mr cashman, who is unable to take part in this debate this evening because of travel problems. he would have been leading for the pse group in this debate otherwise. this report is extremely important for a number of reasons, because it seeks to demonstrate to the citizens of valencia that this european parliament is not only a law-making body – which of course it is – but also a voice of the people of europe when their rights are threatened. i also wish to say that the pse group will not accept amendments to this report which seek to weaken it. the report is already a compromise report and is not as strong as i certainly would like it to be. it is intolerable that residents of parts of valencia face the fact that their property has been and may be expropriated by the local state with the consequent enrichment of developers. it is particularly important to insist on the application of directives which come under a commission remit other than the internal market. i refer specifically to the 2001 directive which deals with strategic environmental impact assessments and the 2000 directive which deals with the prudent use and protection of water resources – all of which are the subject of this complaint. indeed, it is also important that we should seek ways to press the valencian government to put a moratorium on new projects, pending the implementation of a satisfactory new law which meets the full requirements of the european union. it is also essential that citizens have the right of redress and that they are not kept in the dark as to proposals relating to their property, either when they are buying property or when they are in possession of it. it is not appropriate that any citizens should be unilaterally dispossessed of the property that they enjoy. let me refer to another issue. i am sure my colleague would not object to my drawing commissioner mccreevy’s attention to the fact that last friday 100 000 people in ireland marched to express their anger at the bolkestein directive for which he currently has responsibility. as he is in the chamber tonight, i want him to appreciate that serious statement of concern by european citizens.
mr president, first of all let me say that it seems there is no more a case for harmonising corporate tax rates or bases than there is for harmonising property taxes, wealth taxes or capital gains tax. firstly, a common consolidated tax base cuts across national sovereignty and subsidiarity. secondly, the commission maintains that it is not trying to harmonise tax rates, but how is it possible to separate the issue of tax base from the issue of tax rate? would the harmonisation of the base not lead to a harmonisation of the rate? some colleagues may have confused harmonisation of the tax base with the harmonisation of company accounts and requirements for transparency between companies and their accounts. this is erroneous. accounts can, of course, be harmonised, but harmonised accounts can then be adjusted for tax purposes in member states and that is an issue for member states. thirdly, the european commission’s proposal for corporate tax harmonisation is based on the assumption that harmful tax competition results in a shift in taxation away from taxes on mobile capital and towards taxes on comparatively immobile labour and that this development is harmful for employment and ordinary eu citizens. this assumption is open to question in my view. whilst there has been a downward trend in corporate tax rates in some member states, this has been accompanied by both a widening of corporate tax bases and an improvement in the underlying company profitability. in my own country, for example, the lower tax rate has meant a multiplication of the tax take. we went up from eur 385 million in 1996 to a eur 5 707 million take in 2004. finally, let us not forget that the lisbon agenda is about making the eu the most competitive economy in the world by 2015. paving the way for minimum tax rates or corporate tax plans will not prevent companies from looking outside the eu for more competitive rates.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i too would like to commend the rapporteur for her work in this very important area and to lend my voice to support the call for designation of 2007 as the european year of equal opportunities for all. we must commit ourselves not just to the concept of equality of opportunity, but equally and crucially to the attainment of equality of outcome. all people should be entitled to their full social, economic and cultural equality. this, of course, encompasses the equality of all people, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, age, marital or family status, sexual orientation, disability, socio-economic status or indeed political or religious affiliations. if we are serious about the attainment of equality, we must, on an ongoing basis, not only guarantee equality of opportunity across those categories, but we must be in a position to measure accurately and adequately outcomes as against each of those categories. we all know that societal inequality is not a natural phenomenon; it is the direct result of power inequalities, and so to address inequality itself, we have to address issues of power in our society, we have to challenge the way things are. i think 2007 as the year of equal opportunities for all can become a platform for just that. i also think that the very fact that this initiative is being suggested is an explicit recognition that we have failed so far in our journey towards equality. in my own country of ireland, we are still coming to terms with the legacy of british rule and the continuing partition of our country, along with decades of discrimination in the electoral process, in housing, employment and policing. celtic tiger ireland should be a success story for all the irish people, and yet we remain one of the most unequal societies not just in the eu but in fact globally. the roure report’s focus on both migrants and women is commendable and particularly relevant again to my home country. the european year must be about much more than raising awareness simply about discrimination. equality legislation alone will not succeed in tackling the deep-rooted inequalities that exist without the political will of politicians, of policymakers and others to grasp the nettle and comprehensively tackle discrimination. to that end, may i finish by echoing mrs roure’s call for both the commission and the council to put their money where their mouth is as regards tackling inequality across the union.
in writing. on amendments 1 and 2 to the blokland report on batteries and accumulators, i have decided to vote in favour of a single environmental legal base of article 175 ec. as with the debate on the fluorinated gases regulation, although this is a less clear cut example, i have concerns about the lack of certainty we are introducing into our legislation through dual legal bases following ecj judgments in this area. what industry needs more than anything is legal certainty and, given the precedent case law, this is not the direction in which we are going. article 175 has inbuilt safeguards (in article 176 ec) against unilateral trade distorting decisions that may be protectionist in nature rather than environmentally justifiable. it is not necessary to complicate ec legislation further by founding it on multiple legal bases.
in writing. i am resolute in my belief that tax competition is vital. i absolutely reject the assertion that levelling up tax in the direction of harmonisation, can offer any solution to the un-competitiveness of europe. a consolidated tax base would have the effect of placing the fiscal policy of member states into a straight jacket. if a government wanted to kick start an economic activity, through the granting of tax credits for research and development, that member state would have to gain prior approval from the council under unanimity. is that our vision for europe? where a consolidated approach means that the prior approval of all 25 member states is necessary when formulating domestic fiscal policy? and while europe busies itself with such decisions, the competitiveness of the global markets will mean investors simply move on. that is not my vision for europe. fiscal flexibility is paramount to improving european competitiveness. r&d is one element in the overall mix that determines competitiveness. let us not forget that tax is another. and tax competition is healthy. according to this report "the trend towards tax rate competition may lead to a drop in income tax". this is a very short-sighted view, not least because the polish and irish examples disprove it.
mr president, i would like to join with my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the work that has been carried out on this very difficult matter. listening to the debate here today, i am somewhat reminded of 9/11 and the bombings in madrid and london. this parliament rightly objected very strongly and criticised all those who were involved in terrorist acts, called for solidarity amongst member states and amongst all the institutions of the european union and sought to ensure that we could cooperate to fight the evil of terrorism. one of the ideas to emerge is the question of data retention. sometimes when we hear the differing voices in the course of the debate, we have to return to the following fundamental principle. firstly, democratically elected governments have come together and agreed on a proposal; secondly, the parliament of the european union has come together and will hopefully agree on these proposals; and, finally, the desire to ensure that accountability – ensuring that the guardians and custodians are watched over by others – is being borne in mind. i think everything is contained within this overall report to ensure that we can give those guarantees to individuals. let us not forget that every time we use a computer, whether it is to buy christmas gifts or to book flights, data is already being retained by companies on those websites to target marketing and other products towards us. what is emerging here is not a new alien creature: information is already being stored via cookies. there is no control over that. the one concern i have – and maybe the commissioner or the president-in-office of the council could respond to this – is doubt with regard to the legal basis for this directive. there has been some dispute, as this is an issue dealing with counter-terrorism and serious crime, over the fact that it should be done under a framework decision and not a directive. there is a potential clash of legal opinion in this regard. it is important to preserve the rights of member state parliaments and governments to ensure that existing legislation in these areas can be maintained. we all know that citizens prefer to deal with their own government, rather than the european government, to protect their rights and guarantees, so it must be a balance between the two.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i am glad to make a brief contribution to this debate. the council’s 2005 report on human rights is a good summary of human rights activity and aspirations within the eu and the impact that such activity is having outside the union. as the author of parliament’s most recent human rights report, i was pleased to see almost all of the thematic issues raised in parliament’s report dealt with in this document too, reflecting consistency of thought and priority. the death penalty, children’s rights – and, in particular, children in armed conflict – women’s rights and gender equality, the role of international business in human rights, human rights in the fight against terrorism and the role of the icc in the fight against impunity are all issues that need to be given continued priority by consecutive council presidencies and the commission. i believe, if possible, we should be moving towards the creation of one substantial human rights annual report for the eu in future, representing the views of the council, the commission and parliament. it makes no sense for parliament to duplicate the work of the council. our separate role should be to analyse critically the performance of the council and the commission in relation to meeting targets set out in key areas outlined in an eu annual human rights report. parliament needs to be actively involved in drafting this report in future years and not merely presented with the finished article before it is published. finally, while we are debating human rights in the eu for 2005, i cannot let the occasion pass without registering my concern regarding the need for clarity on the so-called cia rendition flights issue. i am one of many members in this house from eu countries that have facilitated the landing and refuelling of us aircraft – military and cia – in recent years. as a spokesman on human rights, i would be a hypocrite not to demand clarity as to whether or not detainees have been transferred through eu countries to third countries where they may be at risk of torture.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, tunisia is a country that has an important relationship with the european union. it is the first country in its region to sign an association agreement with the eu. however, the conditions and events which surrounded the recent world summit on the information society have significantly increased existing concerns relating to human rights and freedom of expression in tunisia. in the build-up to the summit, advocates for freedom of expression and association in tunisia experienced increased harassment. there are also reports of summit delegates being harassed, assaults on tunisian and international journalists, denial of entry into the country, the monitoring and blocking of certain websites, the censorship of certain documents and speeches and the prevention and disruption of meetings. even meps and representatives of the european commission reportedly experienced intimidation and verbal aggression. while we recognise that tunisia faces a certain threat from extremist elements and is trying to deal with that threat, it must do so in a way that respects human rights standards and democratic standards. the european union has a special responsibility to insist on that through dialogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and ask him if he would give particular attention to integrated ticketing on urban transport. in dublin, for example, we have a commuter train, a rail network, a luas tram and public buses. so far, there is no integrated ticketing system to be used on all four. would he consider making dublin a study and promoting the whole question of integrated ticketing, so that people would use public transport more often and it would become more efficient?
madam president, perhaps mr wise might support an amendment to shift eur 40 million from the compensation package for uk farmers to the acp countries to provide us with the eur 80 million we are asking for in this report. the reform of the sugar regime has caused considerable turmoil in a number of member states, including my own country, ireland, but they have been bought off with billions of euros. whatever dislocation the reform of the sugar industry is causing in the european union, the impact on acp countries, and people there who are already poor and barely subsisting, could be catastrophic. like many others in this house, i am deeply concerned that the financial reference amount of eur 40 million, earmarked by the commission for 2006, is grossly inadequate. commissioner, a promise of more in 2007 is simply that: a promise. it carries no weight whatsoever in this house or anywhere else, given the turmoil the financial perspectives are in at the moment. we must avoid robbing peter to pay paul. the money we find for the acp countries has to be new money. it should be made available immediately and it should be complementary. our declarations of wanting to make poverty history have to be backed up with actions and with hard cash.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. i was a little disappointed to hear the comments of the commissioner that only minor changes will be accommodated. i was certainly pleased that our committee supported the amendments to maintain as article 87(3)(a) the status of the statistical effect regions for the entire programming period. i also fully supported the call for the economic development regions to be entitled to the maximum levels of aid intensity with their transitional arrangement for these regions. in the case of my own region, the bmw region in ireland, this will help to ensure that there is not a sudden fall in aid levels but rather a gradual change, which will not cause too severe a shock to the system. furthermore, i commend the proposal to create a safety net, to ensure that no member state loses more than 50% of its population covered during 2000-2006 because that will allow member states the flexibility to intervene in certain areas where necessary. i want briefly to raise another issue in the context of state aid, which is not dealt with by this report but is critical nonetheless. sometimes state aid rules hinder eu regions from competing with non-member regions and states for mobile investment projects. the commissioner referred to lisbon and, in order to achieve the objectives of more and better jobs, eu regions must be competitive within europe but equally competitive with the rest of the world. we do not exist in a vacuum and we must look outwards as well as inwards. it should be possible for the eu to devise a system whereby member states and regions can compete with non-member states for mobile projects, while at the same time ensuring that member states do not attempt to outbid each other. in this context, i believe that we need an assessment of the impact that state aids have in determining if a project can be located in the eu with state aid, or outside the eu without state aid.
in writing. i do not know why this proposal was rushed, the 'extremely accelerated legislation procedure has meant that there was little time for discussion and translations were sometimes unavailable. there was also no time for a technology assessment or for a study on the impact on the internal market. bearing in mind the measures and plans aimed at better regulation at european level, it is to be hoped that the procedure used for debating data retention will not become the rule', to quote directly from the report to parliament. - there is a framework decision on this issue still with the council of ministers.- there is doubt that the correct legal basis was used for this proposal.
mr president, i support the cooperation which the european union and the united states have undertaken for the fight against terrorism. terrorism is a huge threat to all of us and to all of our citizens and it is something that has to be fought in the years ahead. i am pro-american, but that does not mean that i am not going to question the us government for the presumed use of european countries by the cia for the transportation, illegal detention and/or torture of prisoners. we should all recall that this story emanated in the united states, where there is deep unease about what may be happening. we should also recall that america, like all eu countries, has signed up to international conventions protecting human rights and against torture. the provisions of these conventions must be honoured and we cannot arbitrarily throw them out of the window when it does not suit us. the european union is at the forefront in protecting and upholding the human rights of all its citizens. it would be wrong for us in europe to ignore what is happening. i would go as far as to say that it is a derogation of our public duty to not ask questions about this serious issue. serious clarifications must be given by the us government to the issues that have been raised. we have a right to ask questions and demand answers from the us authorities. i am tired of people saying that when you question america, somehow you are not one of its friends. this is not the truth. as friends, we should be allowed to ask questions. i quote one of the most famous americans, thomas jefferson, when he said, ‘i have never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as a cause for withdrawing from a friendship’. because we are debating this issue today, certainly, as far as i am concerned, i have no intention of withdrawing my friendship from the united states and i hope nobody else has. serious human rights issues are at stake. that is the reality of the situation and it is an issue which, rightly, will not go away. we have a right to answers and the us government should cooperate with all of us to ensure that clarification on the issues raised is secured and that human rights and human dignity are not swept under the carpet in this fight. it is absolutely essential that europe sticks to what it believes in and we believe in human rights. at the same time, of course, we believe that terrorism should be fought in all ways. we cannot sweep under the carpet things that we believe and hold true to us, because in this fight, it is absolutely essential that parliament stands up to this.
mr president, i am very glad to participate in this debate, mainly to give a voice to the many children, young adults with handicaps and those living in inappropriate state institutions in romania, which i visited recently. however, before i do that, let me just say a few words about the eu budget talks that are ongoing for 2007 onwards. the british presidency proposal does not make adequate provision for the enlargement of romania and bulgaria and we can only hope that the talks will change that situation. whatever emerges, there is a duty on the eu to continue to press for reform in romania’s state residential institutions. this is detailed in the monitoring report of the enlargement commission. it is no coincidence that practically the only area that has experienced substantial reforms is that of child protection, to some extent due to the interest taken in this by the european parliament. the adult handicapped sector has plans for reform but there are no substantial initiatives as yet, again reflecting the recent interest we have taken in this in the eu. as for the mental health sector, where some of the worst conditions can be found, there are no substantive plans for reform and this area has been largely ignored by the european union. we need to address it. i would like to mention, as some of my colleagues have, the issue of the ‘pipeline children’, the inter-country adoptions. i share the concerns of colleagues. we need to get clarification from the romanian authorities about these children. they need to give us assurances that it is in the best interests of the children to stay in romania and indeed we need to know that they are in appropriate homes as we speak. i understand the anxieties of the adoptive parents, but i also appreciate the reasons behind the ban on inter-country adoptions. however, what is most important is that the needs of the children are placed above all else. in some cases, this may mean allowing the adoptions to proceed. human rights lobbyists i have spoken to contend that much of the reforms in romania are of the ‘smoke and mirrors’ variety and that the theory does not always translate into real progress on the ground. i hope that is not the case and i applaud romania where it has made improvements, but much remains to be done. too many people still live in unacceptable conditions in romania’s institutions. we represent their best hope.
i suppose, very much like motherhood and apple pie, everybody in the european union, the member states, all the political groupings, rhetorically at least, share a commitment to social solidarity, social justice, social cohesion. however, i would put it to the council that, particularly in the course of this presidency, much of the credibility around that rhetoric has been undermined. i do not believe that there is a faith amongst people in the member states that in fact what we rhetorically commit ourselves to we are prepared financially to commit ourselves to. can i ask you to comment on a number of things, please: firstly, on the issue of the budget and the financial perspectives, i am sure you have a view in terms of how this will be financed, and secondly to comment on measures such as the services directive ... (the president cut off the speaker)
as it is christmas, i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his handling of question time and his wit. very often a laugh is no harm in this chamber, and you have given us a few this evening. well done! if we had the chirpiness of your voice in airports when they called for the last passengers to board, i would be grateful! with regard to the wto, could you comment on the difference between free trade and fair trade? there is a world of a difference. we need to be honest in terms of what we are looking for. when you talk about the benefits, we need to know how they are distributed. who gains? because not everyone gains equally.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply. the eu monitoring and advocacy programme of the open society institute has stated that there is a total absence of reliable, comprehensive data on mentally disabled persons in romania, which has contributed to a general lack of public attention to people with intellectual disabilities. from the minister’s reply, i take it that assistance in this area would be an immediate priority as part of the eu’s monitoring of issues in relation to persons with mental disabilities in romania. i should like to ask the minister, in the spirit of christmas, by wishing him well, if he does get that job at the airport, could he do something about direct flights to strasbourg?
this is a very serious issue. i have recently been to romania and visited some of the institutions we have discussed. the conditions are deplorable from a health and safety point of view, if nothing else. i ask you to do whatever you can, in your last days in office, to ensure that this issue is given a higher priority in the progress towards accession.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the author of the oral question and mrs attwooll for presenting it, particularly as she is missing her group’s christmas party this evening by being here, which shows her true dedication. the question of sanctions and whether they are criminal or administrative is very important. obviously nobody within this house would condone a breach of the regulations or rules. it is appropriate that we are having this debate as a joint debate with the casaca report, because the whole issue of fishery control measures and what is required is one that not only can deliver more environmentally and economically sustainable fisheries; it can also give certainty to many fishing families, so that they can continue to live their lives in the way that they have enjoyed up to now. however, outside the question regarding the effects on stocks and stocking levels, and the new rules and regulations with regard to fishing effort and everything else, there is a further layer of bureaucracy which has a direct impact on the fishermen’s ability to make a living. commissioner, you have stated on a number of occasions that you have a preference for administrative sanctions as against criminal sanctions. there has also been the question of giving certainty with regard to some form of uniformity: not a harmonisation but a uniformity of sanctions and penalties as they apply across the member states. mrs attwooll mentioned some of the divergences in her presentation. i would like to give you a few more figures from the last commission report received relating to fisheries offences. there were 1 785 offences in spain; 1 641 of them were dealt with by administrative sanctions. there were 1 579 offences in portugal; three of them were dealt with by criminal sanctions. out of a total of 26 offences in my own country, ireland, 20 were dealt with by the criminal courts. the average fine in portugal was eur 491; the average fine in spain was eur 2 126. the average fine in ireland was eur 11 978, which under proposed new legislation to be introduced next year will increase to eur 220 000. obviously, there must be some fairness and equity with regard to the way that these fines and penalties are imposed. ultimately, it is up to the member states to put in place the legislation to transpose properly the ideology behind the fisheries regulations and directives. there must also be equity and proportionality within that sanction regime. there must be a preference towards administrative sanctions rather than criminal sanctions. there has been some talk recently in certain quarters that the commission was considering taking action against ireland for failure to implement new legislation, which is currently going through the national parliament in ireland. indeed, officials from your own office, commissioner, recently met representatives of the fisheries committee in the irish parliament, as well as meeting members of the committee on fisheries here in the european parliament, to discuss the issue of criminal sanctions and administrative sanctions. i hope these rumours of so-called financial sanctions to be taken against ireland are untrue. i hope that tonight you could encourage us with the legislation that exists in malta, where for a small offence, a small sanction applies – administrative only. for a larger offence, a larger administrative sanction applies. for a serious offence, a criminal sanction will apply. for a continuous offender, then there should be the most rigorous enforcement of criminal sanctions. but there is no equity or fairness when a logbook offence in one country leads to a fine of only eur 96, whereas in another country this could lead to the confiscation of boat, catch and gear. there must be proportionality.
in writing. this report is a welcome addition to the ongoing debate on the rights of passengers with limited mobility. as a person with a disability, i have experienced both the best and the worst of treatment as a passenger, and should like to emphasise that, in most cases, the service providers try to achieve the maximum efficient service. however, there are times when particular airline rules, or, indeed, the attitude of a captain, can have a very negative impact on the travelling experience. the most important aspects of improving the service relate, in my opinion, to the training of personnel, as well as clear and coherent guidelines for operators across the sector. also why not ask the passengers rather than assuming that their needs will be known? i welcome the common agreement from the commission and council on this matter and congratulate the rapporteur on his ability to garner the house.
in writing. i fully support this resolution, especially para 9 which stresses the need to take full account of the quality of public services in completing the internal market; calls for a framework directive on services of general interest; insists that the single market can only be developed in a context of fair competition, fighting social dumping and promoting cohesion; calls on the commission to contribute to the fight against the ‘race to the bottom’ approach in all fields, including in relation to maritime re flagging. we must listen to the 100,000 people who took to the streets in ireland last week to express their anger at the 'race to the bottom' threatened by the actions of the irish ferries company and the bolkenstein directive. 100,000 people expressed their anger and made it clear they will not accept a european union based on the lowest common denominator in social, employment, and public service provisions. i call on commissioner mccreevy as a matter of urgency to reintroduce manning of ferries directive, unblock the temporary/agency workers directive and fundamentally amend the bolkenstein directive.
in writing. it is absolutely vital that the european parliament supports the proposed establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate prisoner abuses in alleged cia-operated prisons, and secret flights over eu. europe must stand up to the bush administration which seems to see us as 'client states' who will rubber-stamp their every excess. it is ridiculous that the us secretary of state, condoleezza rice, seems to expect us to tolerate their excesses on the premise that their actions may save european lives. i expect it is also the case that european security strategies will save american lives - but neither they nor we should do so using torture. i fully support my socialist group's demand that this whole matter be investigated by a european parliament committee of inquiry. that committee must also be mandated to investigate the whole issue of protection of human rights and democratic transparency in the context of the fight against terrorism. i hope that all meps endorse the demand now being made by socialist meps and agree to the committee of inquiry being established immediately.
