mr president, tomorrow parliament is called upon to vote and choose the european ombudsman for the next term. we know that the committee on petitions has done its job admirably and has sent parliament a list of just two names. then, last week, we were all concerned by a very detailed and dense correspondence in which very serious facts were reported, which came to light after the hearings of the committees, and which would have a strong bearing on the eligibility of one of the two candidates. article 195 (3) of the treaty, which prohibits the european ombudsman from exercising any other function, whether remunerated or not, has probably been infringed. the correspondence also reveals some issues relating to one of the titles held by the candidate in question and in any case appears to violate the rule of full guarantee of independence for participation in a lobby. our request, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, would allow the committee to make further enquiries in order to allow this parliament to vote in complete peace: no shadow, no reserve must strike any candidate.
mr president, mr deva has already explained my proposal. on the third day i wrote to you to ask all members of the european parliament to give up a day's work in favour of the people affected by the earthquake and tsunami. we know that 250 euros is not a lot for us, but for those people who are used to living on one euro a month, 250 euros multiplied by the number of members of parliament can be enough to survive for a while. in your kind reply, mr president, you said that you had put this idea of mine to the attention of the conference of presidents: it was agreed, of course, that not all members could be forced to hand in their allowances. however, mr president, i would like to call on all members of the european parliament, from all political groups, to give up today's agenda in order to give a concrete hand, both on a personal and political level - which will be provided in the committee on budgets - to show that each of us - representatives of a very large number of european citizens - is prepared to make a very small sacrifice to help those who need help and small things. this gesture could save a few human lives. the appeal i make, mr president, is this: we are giving up our daily bread today, through the system you will want to identify, to give it back to the people of southeast asia who were hit by the tsunami.
mr president, cop 10 marked the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the framework convention on climate change and was the first cop held in the certainty that the kyoto protocol would enter into force. this meeting was described by one observer as 'talking about talking about the future'. we cannot hide the very apparent difficulties of starting a discussion on the post-2012 period. this does not surprise us because the council also failed to agree on the numbers to be given, and it is always difficult to talk about the future when the present situation is still so unsatisfactory, as it is today. cop 10 also provided a forum for hundreds of side events, press conferences, meetings, ngos and stakeholders, something that we consider to be important because, if the kyoto protocol is to become real, we need much more than governments to implement it. i would like to underline two results of cop 10. the first is the perfectly apparent and open obstruction by the us. commissioner, you have not spoken about that, but i think you should. you should also tell us what you are going to do about it. this was not merely a major disappointment; it was a major obstacle, a change of strategy. the us is no longer saying that it will not sign but equally will not hinder. on the contrary, it is going to hinder. it is hindering and will continue to do so in the future. commissioner, we should like to know your feelings on the view that the eu must be prepared to move along negotiation of the kyoto protocol framework without the us asking for the exclusion of those countries which are not signatories to the protocol. this is something we have to start talking about. the second issue, as already mentioned, is the decision to convene a seminar of government experts. the mandate is very weak, as many people have already mentioned, but if there is a political will, it will be possible and we can start a serious discussion – with those who want it – on post-2012 commitments. what do we expect from the commission and the council? we believe that they should prepare for the meeting in bonn in may by setting out a global proposal on future climate policy which is consistent with the eu's commitment to keeping global warming to a maximum of +2°c, compared with pre-industrialised levels, and to having global emissions peaking within the next two decades. secondly, the eu troika must engage in a serious diplomatic effort to bring on board and take into account the legitimate concerns of developing countries. there should be no illusion here. unless serious resources are given over to adaptation measures, we will not have the developing countries on board, and we want them to fight alongside us. thirdly, the eu must redouble efforts to meet kyoto and beyond. obviously, if our own member states are unable to respect the kyoto protocol today, then we will not be credible in the future.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the recent terrible tsunami also shows us how the relationship with nature is fundamental to guarantee life and civilization. climate change is putting this at risk, and so drastically reducing co2 emissions is becoming a top priority, one that should override all economic and social choices. europe has committed itself to the kyoto commitments and to post-kyoto, and this underlines even more the grave responsibility of the united states government, which is also opposed to ratifying kyoto and to dealing with post-kyoto as was to be done in buenos aires. europe too, we must say, is still far from doing its part fully: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still far from having actually implemented the emission reduction targets, which are still increasing and in some countries, such as italy, are increasing considerably. it is vital for us to reflect on the reasons why this is so. in reality, the achievement of the kyoto objectives has been entrusted to market mechanisms alone. so far, they have not worked, while with liberal globalization, the distortive factors have multiplied: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the environment, such as the shifting of production to countries with weaker environmental regulations and thus increasing emissions, the rich countries wasting more energy on transport and civil uses, the privatisation and liberalisation of energy which, instead of producing savings and clean sources, is putting traditional sources of pollution in competition. if we want to implement kyoto in practice and go beyond it, as we should, we need much more: we must concentrate all our efforts in terms of scientific research, energy policy and infrastructure in such a way as to achieve this objective, with a comprehensive, well-articulated, adequately funded and democratically participated grand strategic plan. something that goes beyond the old, outdated market formulas and instead represents the real challenge of a sustainable future: a new social and environmental economy, structurally democratic, solidarity with the whole world. this is all the more obvious and inescapable if we consider that kyoto is only the first tiny step. in buenos aires, the us government has prevented discussion of what to do after kyoto: i am talking about a change of epoch that is needed. i must also say that the italian government has accepted this reactionary position. that is the real mission for another europe, one which is able to speak to the whole world in this direction and, above all, to take concrete action for a scenario different from the one in which we unfortunately live.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the greens and the european free alliance are in favour of ratifying the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, because they believe that this is an important step on the road to the political integration of our continent. this is a step which, although lacking in many aspects, has no alternative in the present political and institutional context. the proposed constitution establishes the union as a community based on fundamental rights, bases european policies on a code of common values, sets clear and binding objectives and expresses a commitment to respecting economic, social and environmental sustainability. it includes social rights among the classical human rights, binds its external action to respect for international law, simplifies procedures, clarifies competences, extends the scope of community decisions, increases the transparency and democratic legitimacy of the union and also the possibility of participation of citizens. the shortcomings and risks of this text are not few and it is understandable that many citizens, associations and movements which are politically close to us are increasingly dissatisfied with the european project, seeing a union which is not yet able to respond to their concerns and to be a political entity fully capable of acting for a better and less unjust world. we believe that it is inappropriate to deny these realities as our colleagues do in their report. turning the resolution in the european parliament into a sort of propaganda exercise, pretending that it is the ideal result of a graceful, harmonious work done in the best possible way, even saying that the intergovernmental conference left the text of the convention unchanged - knowing that this is not true because all the amendments made by the intergovernmental conference have made the text worse, just think of the legislative council or the budgetary dispute - will not convince a single eurosceptic and at the same time will not help us to win over to our side all those who, far from fearing an inexistent european superstate, know that the union is not yet sufficiently united or cohesive. for us greens, the process of european integration cannot be considered to have been completed with the adoption of the constitution, not least because other countries and peoples, in addition to the current twenty-five, are completing or beginning their accession processes to the union. we are also convinced, contrary to the rapporteur, that the union's institutional system, which is still too cumbersome and complicated, will not be able to survive for long without further reform. we therefore believe that any development and improvement of the future european union must be achieved by ratifying this text. it is a dangerous illusion to believe that rejecting this text would open the way to another constitution, better or even optimal, while rejecting it would leave us with the provisions of the treaty of nice, which are much less advanced, both in terms of the values of the objectives and the institutional structure. a rejection of the treaty would be the ideal opportunity for the eurosceptics to demonstrate that the people no longer want europe, whereas we know very well that this is not the case, and would convince many governments that even the timid and incomplete attempt to overcome, through the convention, an undemocratic and inefficient method of reform such as that of diplomatic conferences and the power of veto is useless. our objective is therefore twofold: the european parliament must approve this constitution in order to quickly lay the foundations for its passage, and seek to build a strong and stable alliance with those political, social, associative and economic forces which believe, as we do, that in order to achieve our objectives of social justice, ecologically sustainable development and peace, we must, of course, win the national elections again, but also strengthen and complete european democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i congratulate my colleagues on the preparation of this important report. the committee on civil liberties welcomed the revised contents of the constitutional treaty,as various elements relating to the area of freedom, security and justice will finally find a new direction in terms of the needs of citizens: it is obvious that when we talk about freedom we are talking about the most important matters that concern each of our lives. there are, however, some points which the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs has considered, and i should like to stress them, but which have left some questions unanswered, without thereby diminishing satisfaction and therefore the incentive for this report to be adopted unanimously by this parliament. there are still some questions, as i said, which are still open to debate: the clause which gives member states the sole right to determine the volume of entry of third-country nationals into their territory, excluding the possibility of creating a genuine european policy for the management of legal revenue within the union; the appropriateness of including the emergency brake clause for judicial cooperation in criminal matters; the appropriateness of the existence of specific derogation schemes from the constitution for certain member states; the limited role of the european parliament in the area of judicial and civil cooperation with regard to family law; the fact that the provisions on the freezing of funds, financial assets and economic income, which are necessary to achieve the objectives of the area of freedom, security and justice, are limited, contrary to what was proposed in the convention, to the prevention and combating of terrorism, thus excluding the prevention of the fight against organised crime and trafficking in human beings. nevertheless, the committee on civil liberties was very pleased to give its favourable opinion and i therefore invite all my colleagues, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, to give a favourable opinion on the constitutional treaty tomorrow.
mr president, in its time the convention, of which this parliament was a member, drew up a text which was considered the best possible compromise. the council then reached the best compromise possible and the new constitutional treaty was signed in rome. it is now up to the peoples, through a referendum, or to the national parliaments, depending on their respective constitutions, to give final approval to the new path. a path which, like it or not, sees europe not as a federal superstate, which would slowly erase identities, traditions and cultures, but as a union of sovereign states which freely choose to give life to a common policy. at a time in human history when natural disasters and tragic events linked to the will of man require that the world chessboard should represent not only the economic interests of our countries but also the values of democracy, freedom and respect for human dignity, which our continent has finally conquered and defined after centuries of war and conflict. so to divide ourselves today in this chamber on what is no longer a matter of our choices but of the ratification of the individual states and peoples of the union, is to deny our parliament its capacity to plan for the future and to relegate it to a role of a speaker where much is discussed and little is concluded. this is in sharp contrast to the increased prerogatives which we have finally obtained after much effort, precisely in the drafting of the new treaty. it seems appropriate to recall that, while the values and principles in the charter of fundamental rights now inserted in part two of the treaty constitute the ethical foundation of the union, the constitutional charter is still incomplete in several respects and would need updating in the light of contemporary reality. we should also be vigilant that the constitution is not used for partisan purposes against governments duly elected by their citizens. the european union must not risk becoming a place where ideological majorities clash to oppose free national choices.
mr president, the first task of a parliament is to represent the people. our duty in the constitutional treaty must be first to measure the distance of the peoples of europe from this treaty: without people, there is no constitution. the democratic deficit in the construction of the treaty is now compounded by the lack of democracy in its launch: if not by a referendum of all european citizens, then at least by holding a referendum on the same day in all the countries of the union. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. europe risks the parable of the titles of a famous trilogy by italo calvino, a great european intellectual: from baron rampant to viscount demised to knight nonexistent. the treaty has no people or constituent spirit, it lacks an idea of itself in the world and in its own time. this is all very serious at a disturbing time when war and terrorism have become the dominant part of politics, when natural disasters such as that in south east asia speak of the social injustices, the intolerable poverty of this world. europe in the context of globalisation is in danger of decline, it is experiencing a malaise linked to the crisis of social cohesion within it, while precariousness is becoming the social figure of our time. this treaty represents the resignation of politics in the face of all this: it's a dumb constitution, you know. in it, peace is a pale aspiration, not the repudiation of war; in it, the rights of individuals, women and men, workers and migrants, are a variable dependent on budgetary parity, monetary stability. democracy is an optional. the constitutional treaty does not provide for rights other than those of the market, it does not propose reforms, it has no future and instead fixes europe in the present crisis. it is not only insufficient, it is a completely wrong direction. the european left therefore opposes this treaty and will campaign against it in all countries. we must get rid of this clutter to build the europe of the future.
mr president, we would be making a grave mistake if we considered the union to be a mere economic entity or a large free trade area, or even a kind of superstate replacing the national states. europe is above all a great ideal and was an ideal for the founding fathers de gasperi and adenauer, from schuman to spinelli, from martino to helmut kohl. europe is our history, it is the synthesis of our cultures and languages, it is our identity, it is our future. it is the europe of values, of the centrality of the individual, of freedom, solidarity and subsidiarity. we cannot think of a union with narrow borders, we cannot think of europe as a machine - however efficient - run by a bureaucracy that does everything and vice versa. europe, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, must instead solve the major problems of its citizens which the other institutions are not able to solve. but does the constitution interpret these values? the answer is generally positive, although one cannot hide the deep regret for the lack of reference to the judeo-christian roots of the union. this reference would not have been a choice of denomination, but an identification of our undeniable historical roots. the decision to sign the constitution in rome is an important recognition for our country of the work done during the italian-led semester. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why europe, through the constitution, must really find a single voice in foreign policy, must win a seat on the new un security council, must be an exporter of peace and not of special interests in the mediterranean and the middle east. the world of globalisation needs this europe, a europe of solidarity and subsidiarity, of the defence of human rights; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the citizens of europe are not excluded from the political europe that this parliament represents. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. president, i speak for the new psi. we can only welcome the new european constitution with satisfaction. increasingly, member states are giving up part of their sovereignty in favour of and to the benefit of an ambitious global idea, which sees 25 entities sharing a common path side by side. it is 21 years since this house, by a large majority, approved the draft reform of the european union drawn up by the italian member of parliament, altiero spinelli. it was a comprehensive and bold plan, clearly aimed at creating a more integrated community. since then, step by step, the nations of the old continent have continued to increase and strengthen the reasons for unity in an international framework that has undergone considerable changes and changes. the constitution, signed on 29 october in rome, just as in 1957, represents a basic point of arrival in this context. half a century later, europe's road goes back to where it all began: the european council in brussels in december last year gave a clear signal that the european union is ready to take on the challenge of creating and building the europe of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge facing europe in the coming months is fundamental to the construction of the union. citizens and parliamentarians across the continent are called upon to adopt a single founding charter which enshrines and reinforces the values on which this union is founded: the european union is a global player in the world economy. the new constitutional treaty is certainly not the best we can hope for, but its very existence is an unprecedented political and historical event, unthinkable until a few years ago. the text we are going to adopt strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the european institutions and brings them closer to the 450 million women and men who make up this union. the constitution gives greater powers to national parliaments and the european parliament, both in legislative and political terms: our citizens will also have a greater say in the democratic process through closer links between the community institutions and local communities, social partners and associations. our duty as elected representatives is to make this participation genuine, fruitful and real. europe will thus strengthen its role as an actor on the global stage. this is the fundamental challenge: we have a duty and a responsibility to build a union that can speak with one voice on international issues. finally, cultural identity: we, as representatives of the christian democratic union, despite the regret that there is no reference to the christian roots on which our union is undeniably founded, are strong supporters of the ratification of this text. in the next few weeks the italian parliament will ratify the treaty; the vote will be a positive one, and will be an encouragement to other countries where the value of europe is not felt as it is in italy. our country, our government and our party, the heirs of those men who shaped and founded europe, will contribute to the successful outcome of the ratification process, to the full realization of the ideals in which we christian democrats have always believed.
mr president, i would like to express the italian socialist delegation's favourable vote on the corbett-méndez de vigo report, and congratulate them on the quality of the report, particularly the explanatory statement. the european parliament is certainly living through a historic moment today, which recalls the 14 february 1984 when the draft treaty of spinelli was approved, and the constitution is in some ways the ideal continuation of that treaty. it is not so much a question of whether a treaty is a treaty in strictly legal terms, but of its substance: today we are all willing to call it the constitution, a term that only a few years ago was often considered unpronounceable. those who, like spinelli and the federalist movement, of which i am proud to be a member, believed and believe that the creation of a true federal state, with few but essential powers, which would prefigure a role for the european union in the world, was essential, would have wanted a bolder text. however, this constitution contains a number of essential steps which constitute a stable and lasting framework from which we must now start if the union is to be able to do effectively what its citizens expect. i shall limit myself to a few examples which i consider to be of priority and which in some cases derive from the link with my own territory, which is a crossborder territory. first of all, i would like to mention the creation of the foreign minister, who will be the voice of the european union on the international scene and will guide its foreign policy. the procedures which make him, as a member of the commission, accountable to parliament must be the basis for the existence of a foreign policy. the citizens of europe, faced with the many, many conflicts that have characterized these years, ask us and ask themselves what europe is doing. secondly, the eu must be a model of development, a tangible example of the fact that development and solidarity can be combined. finally, i would like to remind you that the principle of subsidiarity is a constitutionally valid principle today and this strengthens and guarantees it. that is another reason why i think we should vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today the constitutional treaty - the european constitution - is becoming a reality. the outcome of the convention's work, which will be put to our vote tomorrow, shows the will to introduce more democracy, transparency and efficiency into the european institutions, strengthening them and making the decision-making process more effective. the citizens are the real winners, because the constitution consolidates our common values, our common principles. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which the european union has also published in miniature - like all the most valuable books in history - is incorporated into the constitutional treaty. i believe that this is a fundamental indication of transparency, solidarity and democracy of rights: the rights of the individual, of children, of the elderly and of the disabled. i believe that these principles are being adopted this time precisely to bring our institution closer to the people, among the people, so that we can give those answers which are particularly needed in these days. i therefore believe that the removal of barriers in society to ensure the full participation of citizens in our united europe is the fundamental aspect of our work these days. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to thank corbett and mendez de vigo for their truly masterful work in simplifying the reading of the constitution. the ancient roman jurists said: the court of justice has also held that the principle of the protection of legitimate expectations is not a rule of law. the founding fathers of europe, from the first day they began to dream, began to imagine this common entity. a single entity that encompassed millennia of history, geography, societies and common values, well, from that moment on, the same fathers thought of common rules: what we now call the constitution. that is why i am very disappointed this morning to hear authoritative colleagues, whose freedom of expression i of course respect, express their opposition to the draft constitution. we can oppose this form of constitution, the contents of the constitutional treaty, but not common rules, because i believe that the establishment of such rules enhances sovereignty. today we must find a consensus in a world which is profoundly changing, even in its orderings, in its new semantic data: it is wrong to imagine sovereignty as it was conceived in the 18th and 19th centuries. today the new concept of sovereignty is subsidiarity: the european union is a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of citizens, a community of all people, a community of all people, a community of all people, a community of all people, a community of all people, a community of all people, a community of all people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, a people, we can 't imagine using the terminology that the lawyers have taught us: the following are the list of the countries which have adopted the euro: europe is a new entity, a union in which we must all recognize ourselves. finally, i would like to express my regret at the failure to recall not only the christian roots but also the democracy of pericles - the mother of the very essence of democracy - the roman empire, carolingian europe. we hope that in the process of european integration these things will be remembered.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i can answer the three questions, which raise the same basic problem. i thank mr bourlanges and the members who have spoken. the first reason why i am reasonably optimistic about the possibility of achieving a concrete result, namely the adoption of a european initiative, is that, compared with 2001, it was the european council - the very institution which had not allowed the adoption of such a measure in 2001 - which in november 2004 called on the commission to adopt a european initiative by 2005. in the context of the hague strategy, the heads of state and government, and therefore at the highest political level, have asked the commission to act and to act swiftly. this, in my view, demonstrates a new awareness that only europe can provide added value for a legal immigration strategy. the second reason is that, compared to the past, we have preferred what i would call a bottom-up approach rather than a top-down approach. we have preferred to launch a debate with this parliament, with the european economic and social committee, with the employers' and trade union associations, so that we are prepared to put forward a proposal only after we have gathered the necessary information. i am convinced that this method will firstly increase the transparency of the debate, secondly allow civil society actors to be more involved in this debate than in the past, and thirdly allow the member states to approve or not the proposal that the commission will present, having the opinion of their business associations, their trade unions, the european parliament. these elements will strengthen the work. i cannot therefore anticipate the concrete measures that will be contained in the commission's initiative, precisely because today we are re-launching a european debate with the idea of gathering information and proposals, to be submitted to a public hearing around the middle of this year, in order to be able to present a proposal by the end of 2005. we shall then be able to understand better what the concrete measures will be. i can only say that we are going to adopt a framework of minimum rules, to allow those who want to work in compliance with the law to do so and at the same time to allow for prior knowledge of the provisions in a less bureaucratic way - today there are 25 different rules on the admission of migrant workers, one per country. we think we are setting up a european framework, which anyone outside europe can get to know first: we believe that this will also help to prevent illegal immigration.
mr president, commissioner, we certainly appreciate the fact that immigrants are finally no longer considered a problem but a resource - as the green paper expressly states - and that we are aiming at a permanent multicultural and multi-religious dialogue. we are concerned, however, about the productivist approach, as you yourself described it in an interview with an italian newspaper: the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum. the green paper is based on the hypothesis - only a hypothesis, but one which we intend to comment on - that the admission of an immigrant is conditional on a job vacancy which could not otherwise be filled with workers from the european union, or on the specific needs of a member state in particular areas of work. does he not think, commissioner, that the application of this principle could be the end of a common european immigration policy, and a step backwards from what many member states have already achieved?
vice-president of the commission. the commission agrees that the absence of comparable crime statistics makes the development of an effective eu law enforcement policy more difficult. the commission is working on a draft action plan on eu crime statistics. member state crime statistics experts are being consulted on this draft action plan, which will be presented in the form of a commission communication in the spring of 2005. the two main blocks of the draft action plan are: first, the setting up of appropriate coordination machinery to ensure that member states, the commission and other key actors are part of the process of working towards common data-gathering methods and harmonised definition; the second element concerns the implementation of developing comparable statistics. this will include many different components, to be developed over a period of time, such as definitions of crime types and an inventory of definitions where there is already eu-level agreement. the commission, in close cooperation with europol and other providers and users of eu crime statistics, is developing this project on a step-by-step basis in accordance with member states' ability to provide relevant data. the commission's draft action plan was discussed with european directors of social statistics in september 2004. it was agreed to set up a task force to examine appropriate statistical methods for monitoring crime. this task force will begin its work in may 2005. i should also mention that the commission is providing support for work being undertaken to measure statistically the quality and effectiveness of the judicial process. a seminar on this subject, co-financed by the eu's agis programme, was hosted by the italian ministry of justice in rome in october 2004.
vice-chairman of the commission . i do not think that new bodies can and should be set up. i think that this sector should see on the one hand a strategic, i would say political, direction from the commission and on the other hand the possibility of using europol differently, which, as we all know, is trying to develop its functions and its missions. the commission intends to stimulate this very progression, this growth of europol's functions. this is certainly one of the areas where work can be done.
mr president, i would like to make a few comments. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i think that the presidency and the legal services should look more closely at the question of question time and think carefully about what time, how many questions in this time can be answered, because you cannot force a member to stay in the chamber all this time and then not have the satisfaction of having an immediate and direct answer from the commissioner responsible. i think that the situation deserves to be investigated by the services of parliament, and it is absolutely unacceptable that such a situation should occur.
on behalf of the group. mr president, the agenda of the luxembourg presidency is packed with key events for the future of europe, including economic priorities, the lisbon strategy, the reform of the stability pact and the adoption of the financial perspective until 2013. first point: the commission will shortly be carrying out a mid-term evaluation of the state of implementation of the lisbon strategy. in order to give a greater chance of success, the programme must make each member state responsible for achieving the objectives set. in this connection i think it is very useful to propose that a national authority be appointed to implement this strategy. secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also believe that, in order to boost growth and european competitiveness, it could be envisaged that certain specific types of investment would be excluded from the deficit calculation. third point: i hope that by june the financial perspective for 2013 will have been approved, so that we can make full use of the resources from the beginning of the programming period. i hope above all that these proposals, the council's and the commission's proposals on such important subjects, will be adequately and in advance discussed by the european parliament, which, we remember, is the only european institution which directly represents the people's sovereignty. finally, i hope that a european civil protection agency will finally be set up during the luxembourg presidency so that natural disasters can be dealt with in an appropriate manner, with a particular focus on prevention.
mr president, the reform of the stability pact and the reform of the financial perspective are two sides of the same coin. these reforms must find a common philosophy and solution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. all this means greater prosperity and greater cohesion. let me be frank with you, mr president juncker. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not what the european union needs now, perhaps we should be more ambitious: i am not saying that we should be more ambitious, but that does not mean that we should be less rigorous, but simply that we should be more attentive to the strategic needs of our union. if it is true that a virtuous strategy at european level for investment, infrastructure, research and security needs to be relaunched, in short, to achieve the objectives set at the lisbon summit, then an agreement must be reached on the way forward: without hypocrisy, without trickery, without opportunism. the pact needs a european golden rule, so to speak, with the appropriate guarantees and controls. the financial perspective calls for a stronger, not a weaker, union budget, more geared to investments under the lisbon objectives and less to assistance. mr president, mr barroso, will we be able to do that? it's up to us. we all have a responsibility, but please, no hypocrisy.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i have the impression that the media spotlight on the tragedy in the far east has not yet been turned off and that the emphatic declarations of solidarity are already giving way to more cynical economic and geopolitical interests. president barroso has tried to play a game of charm, but he is not a good charmer. the word reprogramming means the use of funds which were already earmarked for aid, so i ask that all 350 million for the first phase of reconstruction be a new allocation and that the whole of the one and a half billion which is to be paid by the european union and the 25 member states be given without any interest. i have heard calls in this house to take account of the external debt of the countries affected by the tsunami. i think we must make it clear that the only viable option is the cancellation of the external debt. we are talking about countries like indonesia, which has over 130 billion dollars of debt and paid off 13 billion dollars in 2002. in view of these figures, if we do not cancel the debt, our donations will not be able to bring any real help. i have yet to hear of any attempt to change, at least temporarily, immigration laws: i am referring to the possibility for immigrants already living in europe from the affected countries to be able to return, check their situation, look for their loved ones and then be able to return to the union without risking losing their residence permit or their job. i am also referring to the possibility of offering a residence permit, at least temporary, to all those who were injured during this tragedy. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the group. mr president, the key lesson we have to learn from the indian ocean disaster is the importance and urgency of equipping the european union with civil protection. the events of the past few days must make you think seriously: the europe of 25 states, the europe of almost half a billion people, the europe of the single currency, has stood by in astonishment, dismay and helplessness as the people in distress have called for rational and effective aid in good time. where was the european civil protection mentioned in the action programme established in 1999? what effect has the european monitoring centre had? where was the civil protection task force set up in october 2001 by the council of the european union to ensure rapid action outside europe? why did the commission decide to leave the 300 experts of the european task force at home during the tsunami emergency after years of training and preparation? perhaps this is not the time for polemics, but at least it should be recognised, as we have been asking for three years, that europe does not need coordination and pools, but a civil protection agency, an autonomous body, agile and therefore capable of preventing and acting where and when it is needed. this is what parliament should propose, starting with tomorrow's resolution, if we do not want to continue to pretend that nothing has happened and if we want to believe that solidarity is just an empty box. let 's hear it .
mr president, i thank you for giving me the floor to explain my vote after the president had adjourned the sitting and i confirm that i voted in favour of mr manuel medina ortega's report on civil liability in the event of motor vehicle accidents, which unfortunately occur all over europe. i would ask that in future reports on this subject, mr advocate manuel medina ortega should take care to protect the elderly who, when they are injured in road accidents, are not compensated because they are unable to earn any income because of their very advanced age. i believe that just because you're an elderly person doesn't mean you don't have the right to claim compensation for the damage you've suffered.
mr president, while i was voting for the european constitution and i was happy to vote in favour, i fell asleep, i do not know, perhaps because of the calmness with which president borrell handled the vote. i was asleep when i saw you, mr president, telling me that i should vote in favour and to my question 'why should i vote in favour?' you replied 'but you represent the pensioners!' is it necessary to realize that this constitution, which includes the charter of fundamental rights, gives the elderly the right to be recognized as deserving of the same rights as young people, the same rights as workers? i would like to express, together with this communication, which i voted for, the hope that there will be no discrimination of any kind against the elderly in europe.
mr president, i think that the commission has responded appropriately, taking into account the instruments at its disposal at present. however, there is one issue concerning the situation in southeast asia that is very much on the back burner, at least in the public discourse of all political interlocutors. i am referring to the political problems which are also present in many of these countries: sri lanka, southern thailand or indonesia, in particular in the banda aceh area. it is a question of intervening in areas where armed independence movements have been present and active for a long time. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and other countries on the basis of the un security council resolution. these elements make the whole reconstruction effort largely problematic, and yet i hear very little about it, especially in public discourse. i am convinced that real and effective reconstruction is impossible without solving the political problems: the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and to the strengthening of the institutions and the rule of law, without which the fragility of the region risks exploding. this is a great opportunity. if used properly, the whole reconstruction programme can act as a great lever to restart the peace process, whereas, on the contrary, if mismanaged, it can explode already very obvious tensions. i believe that the european union, from this point of view, must face the problem of its political presence in the reconstruction phase, which is not being seen at the moment and will not be seen. i find it puzzling, for example, that the first meeting of the jakarta government with the guerrillas of the free aceh movement (gam) took place in the presence of the united states, britain, sweden, japan, singapore and libya with the obvious absence of the european union at the negotiating table. these are the issues that, if avoided, will not allow you to govern the reconstruction process well, which will be long and difficult, but also potentially very positive.
how many days have passed since the european union intervened in the countries affected by the tsunami, despite the fact that it was known from the first hours after the disaster that the tsunami had affected thousands of tourists of european origin? it may be that the officials of the european union were all on holiday, but for days and days in these countries, for example in thailand, there was not a single shadow of an official of the european union. this absence made possible the burial in mass graves, making it difficult, if not impossible, to identify the bodies of the disappeared europeans. you are not giving any information on this, but i would like to know how many people have come, where and with what delay, because, again, in many of these countries there is no record of their presence. in the closing days of the year, no european official had yet appeared. i would also like to put in the minutes a protest against the complete disinterest of many arab states in these populations, who are, moreover, largely of the quranic religion. europe has moved, the west has moved, but the very rich nations, the states, the multi-billion dollar regimes of the islamic religion have shone with their savings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just two points: the natural disaster in asia was also an ecological disaster. extensive beaches have suffered enormous damage, reefs have been destroyed, corals have been flooded with sand and debris, and devices floating in the sea are ticking time bombs. this also reduces the tourist attractiveness of these regions. in addition to repairing this environmental damage, it is urgent to rebuild tourist facilities wherever possible. tourism is an important economic factor, but mass tourism without a plan is not environmentally friendly. the reconstruction must be more solid, more sustainable. you learn from past mistakes. disaster can also be seen as an opportunity. the pilot project of the thai ministry of the environment with the un and the world bank to repair environmental damage on koh phi phi seems to me to be groundbreaking in this respect.
mr president, the tsunami is forcing a rethink of all development policy. the fight against poverty must become a central commitment to govern the interdependence of the world today, according to criteria of equity and justice. rich or poor, in the tidal wave we're all in the same boat. i believe that it is not enough to reprogram what has already been allocated, nor to buy fishing vessels in europe and then allocate them to fishermen in the affected areas. it is urgent to turn words into action, by cancelling the debts of all the poor countries, opening our markets to trade with them, devoting 0.39% of european gdp to development aid by 2006 - in accordance with the moral commitment made at monterey - and finally introducing a levy on international transactions to finance development and thus achieve the millennium development goals.
mr president, we want a europe that is friendly to the united states of america. no global problem can be tackled without cooperation between the european union and the united states of america. we therefore believe it is right to take advantage of the new signals coming from the american administration to relaunch cooperation between the european union and the united states of america, and in this respect president bush's visit will certainly be an important occasion. the problems of recent years have certainly been weighed down by american choices, but also by the divisions and the inability of europe to assert its point of view. i therefore want to stress that bush must meet a europe which is more united, true to its principles, proud of its identity. we must highlight what we have in common with america - freedom, economic freedom, democracy - but also what sets us apart, at least in relation to the current trends prevailing in the united states: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. europe must be able to influence the choices of the united states and it can do so if it is united, if it is not divided between an old and sterile anti-americanism and the choice of those who rush to join the coalitions of the winners. or rather, the willing ones, because they are not winners, as the disaster in iraq shows. europe must therefore be itself, united and true to its principles. this will be the best basis for more fruitful and constructive transatlantic relations.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief because i see that there is a very broad agreement on the need to strengthen our transatlantic relations, the need to overcome the differences that have emerged in recent times, the need to build a strong transatlantic relationship. the idea of drawing up a kind of programme, a list of economic and political priorities, seems to me to be a useful idea, one that needs to be worked on, particularly in view of president bush's visit to brussels. the idea of creating a transatlantic market place, which is not a new idea, must be explored, it must be thought through: it is important, provided, of course, that it also fits into our conception of multilateralism. it is therefore a question of strengthening the transatlantic dialogue at all levels, and i include your parliament in this, because in the united states, while power is in the hands of the government, in the hands of the president, there is also a considerable area of power in congress. i therefore believe that strengthening parliamentary relations, in this context of a renewed transatlantic dialogue, is very important. someone pointed out that we hadn't talked about canada. i would remind you that this morning, in his speech, the prime minister, president of the european council, mentioned canada. it is undeniable that our relations with canada are of crucial importance in the context of this transatlantic dialogue, and we therefore attach the importance they deserve. but today we have focused on transatlantic relations with the united states, especially in view of events and in particular president bush's visit.
commission. mr president, listening carefully to the discussion and suggestions i detect a very positive spirit, which encourages me that we can take the debate, and our relations with the united states, still further. it is true that we have been through a turbulent period, but it is also true that we have now emerged from that period, showing that the transatlantic relationship is still strong and durable. the eu-us summit of june 2004 clearly demonstrated how much we have in common and the readiness of both sides to focus efforts on the key challenges ahead. it could be described as cooperation between partners with common interests and common values who are competing with one other in a fair way. i would like to touch on matters that have already been raised concerning the question of the transatlantic agenda. as you know, the relationship today is based on the transatlantic declaration of 1990 and the new transatlantic agenda declaration and action plan of 1995. those are the instruments which guide the new relationship with the united states. however, following calls from the european parliament, and most recently from the foreign affairs committee resolution of april 2004, we are reassessing the framework for our relations. we are launching an independent study, to be completed early this year, assessing the current cooperation framework. it will include an analysis of alternative preferences for cooperation. the contractor will also look into the advantages and disadvantages of the framework agreement. however, what we have always held to be important is the substance of the relationship. we believe that it is the substance that matters and try to focus on that. concerning economic issues and economic cooperation, i would underline that the commission strongly supports the aim of closer economic cooperation between the european union and the united states. the last eu-us summit called for a forward-looking strategy to promote integration, drawing on ideas from both sides of the atlantic. the consultation of stakeholders ended in december 2004, and we have recently been assessing the results. the aim is to identify and overcome the real obstacles facing economic cooperators, with the new strategy to be presented to the next eu-us summit in 2005. it is too early to commit to any option at this stage, but we should certainly continue to reinforce cooperation in the areas highlighted, especially in the european parliament's recent resolutions on the transatlantic partnership. the european parliament's input will be welcomed as we review our economic relations with our us partners. we are facing many common threats: international terrorism, aids, poverty and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. we need to be constructive in engaging on issues where we have differences, such as climate change, the international criminal court and trade disputes. it is clear that eu-us agreement is a necessary condition for progress on global issues. the recent catastrophe which we all faced is a clear lesson to us all that we cannot do things in any other way. we need to lay the groundwork for an effective multilateral system, based on a revitalised united nations in which the united states fully participates. finally, i should also underline that relations with canada – which have been mentioned – are truly flourishing. that may be why more has not been said about them. the transatlantic partnership with canada has always been an extremely important relationship for us.
mr erika mann, this was not exactly a point of order, as the rules of procedure say. the commission has received six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on the debt of developing countries.
mr president, on behalf of the new psi, i would like to express my great satisfaction and gratitude to the european union, to the governments of the member states, to the international agencies, to the humanitarian organizations and to every single european citizen for the titanic effort of solidarity shown in recent weeks. i welcome the decision taken two hours ago by the members of the paris club to apply a debt moratorium to three of the countries affected by the tsunami, following the approval in november 2004 of the cancellation of 80% of iraq's debt, as a concrete sign of support for the reconstruction of the country. the extraordinary general affairs and external relations council meeting last week also had a positive review of the accompanying measures - such as trade support and bilateral partnerships - for the countries affected. my greatest hope, however, is that we shall see such a commitment not only in times of war or natural disasters, but on a continuing basis to all those countries for which conflict, disease and hunger are unfortunately the order of the day. in fact, according to the united nations, there are 14 forgotten crises, most of them in african countries, for which the united nations has asked for $1.7 billion in support. for these and other developing countries, it is necessary to aim at the full achievement of the millennium development goals, which we are still far from, even if we move, if possible, towards debt reduction or debt cancellation. a timely, necessary, urgent and dutiful commitment.
mr president, commissioner, i am addressing the council first of all because we have just heard that a couple of hours ago the paris club decided to freeze the debts of some of the countries affected by the tsunami. we believe that this is a short-sighted decision, because we think that these countries need not a moratorium but debt cancellation, as was proposed by almost all the humanitarian organizations - oxfam, actionaid - you will be better informed than i, mr minister. i agree with the commissioner on this point: we need a different trade policy. thailand has been demanding lower fees for access to international markets, and the west has been adamant about this: the protection barriers are not touched. last item on the agenda: the debt of not only iraq and the countries hit by the tsunami must be cancelled urgently. it would be a serious matter if the message to the international community were that we must be hit by a war and a natural disaster with 200,000 deaths in order to have the right to western solidarity.
mr president, i cannot tell mr potočnik in one minute the concerns his report raises in parliament. we are not in a court of law here, mr potočnik, we are in the european parliament. i draw only two conclusions from the culture in which your report is set out: the first is that if the reasons for this were valid in all the countries of europe, we would have neither the lisbon charter nor, probably, the charter of human rights. we would be returning to a system of industrial relations based on rules which, as i have heard, are unacceptable to all the groups in this parliament. the second point i would like to make is this: i am not saying that the european parliament should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. there are already signs of this in the structures and the reports as far as translations are concerned, and these are the results. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, i think that the discrimination which characterizes this dismissal must be given special attention in parliament today. this is all the more so after yesterday's vote on the constitutional treaty, which includes in title ii the charter of rights of all of us, the citizens of europe. i therefore believe, even in the context of the information we are going to have to provide in the coming months, that it is not possible to dismiss, in a discriminatory manner, without any justification, 43 language teachers who have worked for us all these years. the trilogy was overlooked. even the simplest forms of interest and intervention in favour of these people have been neglected. the discrimination was done right inside parliament. i believe, in line with what has already been said by my colleagues, that today we should pay particular attention to the meaning of democracy and to the rights of all of us, starting with those of these people.
mr president, i am here to announce that we are withdrawing our signature from this proposal because, once again, the european parliament has been used as an instrument against the italian government. we therefore withdraw our signature and, while agreeing to the text, we shall vote against it.
mr president, i refer to the resolution on the tsunami that has just been adopted. in point 5, we decided to invite all members to donate a day of our work to the tsunami victims. i would ask the presidency to set up a current account to which our voluntary offer will be transferred, otherwise it will be done in a piecemeal manner. i think that parliament must have the courage to make a choice and to indicate a current account number, otherwise we will have to act individually.
, in writing. the tragic events of natural causes which have occurred without interruption in recent years demonstrate the need for a more thoughtful policy and for an analysis which escapes the small party diasporas. it is essential to prepare immediately, as we have been asking for from several legislatures, for the organization of a european civil protection structure capable of rapid intervention, to deal with any eventuality affecting our countries or other regions of the world. we have globalized the market; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of drug abuse. we therefore welcome the decision of the g7 to grant a debt moratorium to disaster-stricken countries, we accept the decision, despite the bad experiences of the past, to entrust the coordination of aid and reconstruction of the affected areas to the united nations, but we also call for the union to provide itself with a civil protection structure with: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's civil protection systems are coordinated, that national regulations are harmonized and that a permanent european structure is established. we are asking that the funds for reconstruction allocated by the union not be withdrawn from the budget lines for the development of the poorest countries and that there be a representative of the commission who periodically reports to parliament on the use of the funds allocated by the union.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. one of the european union's main roles is to speak up for people in need and to promote human rights, freedom, democracy and tolerance. we therefore all agree to urge the iranian authorities to comply with the international conventions on freedom of the press, the prohibition of torture and respect for the rights of children, women and minorities. many alarm bells are ringing that the situation in terms of political and social reforms is actually getting worse rather than better. the united nations, in its resolution of 21 december, also expressed growing concern about this. we all hope that iran, a country with great potential and a great deal of cultural fervour, will soon become a full-fledged economic and political partner. however, all future exchanges must be closely linked to a close monitoring of the real social situation in the country and conditional on the implementation and effective and unequivocal application of the required reforms. the guidelines set out by the european council last december, which are part of this approach, must therefore be put into practice as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's report shows that, beyond the individual national problems, there is a picture of the overall difficulties of the european economic system. no single state can reverse this negative trend and it is up to the european institutions, in particular the commission, to revive the european economy by focusing on a strategy aimed at the objectives of jobs, growth and development in solidarity. firstly, the lisbon strategy must be relaunched so that it can finally be effective, including the identification of a national responsible for achieving the objectives. secondly, there is a need for a smart revision of the stability pact, which will lead to structural reforms and facilitate the achievement of the lisbon objectives, and which will give a boost to investment in infrastructure and research to increase competitiveness. in this connection, i believe it is essential to have a debate in the european parliament on the reform of the stability pact before the european council in march. finally, we should perhaps reconsider the idea, proposed by mr delors at the time, of financing european public investment to support growth and competitiveness through the use of community bonds, which in this case would be guaranteed by the current strength of the euro.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am convinced that the construction and operation of the transeuropean transport network can make a real contribution to european prosperity, also in terms of solidarity and sustainable development. i am not thinking too much about the demand effects of the large amount of investment required to build the tens, which should help to increase economic growth. within the framework of the lisbon strategy, we should have already solved all the diplomatic, planning and financial problems and we should be ready to convert investments into expenditure. realistically, that's not going to happen. however, firm commitments for european co-financing for the tens should be defined before the adoption of the financial perspectives 2006-2013 and possibly with a time horizon also covering the period after 2013 until 2020. if we cannot expect rapid demand effects from the completion of the tens, we can expect a serious and progressive contribution to the effective creation of the internal market in the enlarged union. however, given the constraints of time and financial resources, this can only be achieved if the strategy for implementing the tens is not left to the discretion of the member states, their subsidiary decisions and their ability or not to co-finance the different sections and the different projects. it is only in brussels that the network can be identified, and its implementation will have the effect of truly building a single market superior to others, even though it is clear that only the completion of all the projects will create the network effect. all this will only be possible if european cofinancing is high, in some cases predominant, only if the member states allow for an exceptional pooling of resources for the construction of the tens, which is certainly incompatible with the reduction of the resources transferred to the union by the member states to 1% of european gdp. this possible increased financial responsibility of the european union could also have the virtuous effect of allowing a useful revision of the stability pact. the 3% ceiling could only be exceeded if it was objectively linked to the construction of the infrastructure mentioned above, as well as to research expenditure, and subjectively guaranteed by the executive commission, which would be responsible for using the most resources according to criteria of european priority, such as that of making a greater contribution to the unification of the market in the enlarged european union to which i referred earlier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i had prepared a different speech. however, what has just been said by mr ferber in a certain sense forces me to speak about the reach dossier for which i am rapporteur which mr ferber has pointed out as the greatest threat to the competitiveness of the european industrial system. i think exactly the opposite. i think it is always wrong to make a concrete legislative measure a symbol of good or evil. in any case, i think that if reach is a symbol, it is exactly the way forward for finding a new competitive perspective for the european system. what is happening in this world that is challenging and challenging our competitiveness? we are witnessing a major international redistribution of labour, as has already occurred at other stages of the world's economic and industrial history. in this great transformation europe has not yet succeeded in finding its place, its winning cards. it identified them in the lisbon strategy, but was only able to develop and increase them to a small extent. i agree with the list of priorities you have indicated, mr president of the commission, on which an interinstitutional partnership should be based, and i believe that this is the basis on which the great crossroads of competitiveness in europe should be tackled. our competitive card is knowledge and environment. on that basis europe will achieve a world primacy, a leadership, for which europe has all the necessary conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the commission for the report he has presented to this house, which gives us hope for the months and years ahead. i have noted some key points in your speech, which is of course very general in nature, and i believe that we must focus our attention and also our efforts on them. firstly, i think it is clear to everyone that the challenges facing europe, which we have recognised and want to recognise, are largely, if not explicitly, contained in the lisbon project. however, we are aware that this week and these months we are dealing with one issue, the financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013, which is the fundamental condition for everything else. i share your view that 'more europe with less money' cannot be achieved. i would also add that the lisbon strategy cannot be implemented without money and that a cohesion policy, which all the countries are calling for, cannot be pursued without the necessary resources. i believe that cohesion is fundamental to us and i would also like to include the subject of women, to which i would ask you to always pay particular attention, as it is a force and a novelty that could be useful for you to take forward. i also share the view that agreement on the financial perspective cannot be reached at any cost. to achieve these goals, courageous choices will probably have to be made, and i urge you to act on them. i therefore propose that we return to the debate on financing in agriculture, the need to push forward with a strong policy on services and the reach programme, which all the member states have reservations about and which should therefore be reviewed.
president of the commission. i would like to begin by clarifying the point made by mrs grossetête: what we have agreed is that the european parliament is the first to be informed of the major decisions of the european commission. we have just this morning adopted the five-year strategic programme and also the work programme for 2005. that's why he only got here today, because we only approved him today. the european parliament therefore received the work programme for 2005 immediately. today's debate is certainly not a substitute for any other debate on the work programme for 2005, which will certainly take place. i think it is the will of this parliament that as soon as the european commission approves its work programmes, it should come here. that is why we are here today having approved it this morning, both the strategic programme and the work programme for 2005. we are certainly very happy to be present at another debate specifically on the 2005 work programme. what we were doing here today was essentially setting the strategic lines for the next five years. there was indeed something new there, as some of the honourable members have acknowledged. the european commission has been concerned not to hand you a bureaucratic or technocratic programme of hundreds of pages, but to present you with the broad strategic lines, to make some choices and to present you with a clear document. we have proposed a partnership to you and the european parliament has responded favourably to that partnership. we have proposed priorities to you and the fact is that it has been largely confirmed that the issues of concern to the commission are exactly the same as those of concern to this parliament. the conditions are therefore in place so that together with the council we can now present to our fellow citizens a programme and a strategic perspective for the next five years. in this connection i would also like to welcome the presence, for a large part of the debate, of the president-in-office of the council, mr juncker. as you said - and your words were encouraging - there is general agreement on the line to be taken. the commission, the council and, of course, parliament, with the help and support of the luxembourg presidency, will therefore seek institutional agreement in the coming weeks in an attempt to reach a joint declaration on the strategic objectives. this means, mr president, that you can count on the commission to work with determination and a sense of responsibility towards a common project, and thus towards the realisation of a partnership for european renewal. we are thus anticipating the spirit of the constitution. we are thus showing that all our institutions - parliament, the council and the commission - are capable of drawing a clear line for the future. i would therefore like to thank you very sincerely for your support and attention. but now it is clear that this strategic programme must be translated into concrete actions. the members have stressed a point which was also a concern today at our commission meeting and which is also stated in our document, namely the ability to implement, to execute, as we usually say in english, 'delivery'. we want to focus on delivery, on actual implementation so that it is not just on paper, on paper, but so that citizens can see that something is happening, that we are actually doing and making it happen. the first step in this process, the first step in the decline of this strategic programme - which i have seen today receiving very broad support here - will be precisely the revision of the so-called lisbon strategy. we will be presenting the so-called lisbon mid-term review next week, because it is a question of translating our priorities, in particular the priority we call prosperity, into concrete terms, in particular in terms of growth and employment. growth and jobs as priorities. but as we have always said, there are many elements in this lisbon strategy which are all working together to achieve this objective. members have noted that there could be problems with some legislative initiatives. i would like to tell you that these issues will be specifically addressed here when we present the review of the lisbon strategy. you will then see that this commission says what it does and does what it says; that it has the courage to propose and the ambition to achieve. and i'd also like to say that i'm counting on your support. i would now like to answer some general questions which were raised during the debate. firstly, the question of cohesion. there is one subject on which there is no need to argue with us, frankly: the question of cohesion. the commission does not need to be convinced of this. we understand that cohesion is an essential element of the european model. what we need now is your support so that there is indeed support, if possible during the luxembourg presidency, for the new financial perspectives. the truth is that we have seen today, as we have seen in other debates, a number of priorities which can only be achieved if the european union has the resources to match its ambitions. we have spoken here of the transport network for europe, we have spoken here of education and culture, which we shall also address in more concrete terms when we present the lisbon strategy because we consider as an essential element of this revised strategy what we call 'knowledge for growth', 'knowledge for development'. some members have also spoken here today of cohesion in relation to the weakest regions, the regions which are lagging behind the rest, whether in the new member states or the old member states, whether in the richer countries or the less developed countries. the truth is that there must be an effort to achieve cohesion, because without cohesion there is no solidarity, without solidarity there is no union. that is why i am calling on members to do this work with our governments, with the governments of the various member states, so that there is support for a concept of solidarity, a genuine concept of cohesion with regard to the most disadvantaged groups and the most backward regions of our union. our model is the european model. i hope there is no doubt about that. the european model is our model. however, we are in a situation of globalisation, increased competition, and we are facing major challenges. we must therefore also learn from what others do without changing our model. for example, in terms of research into new technologies, we are behind some of our partners. i'm not proposing to replace our model with their model. i am proposing that europe should do more in terms of supporting research into new technologies, maintaining and strengthening what is specific to our model. i was therefore very pleased today, mr president, to see that there was hardly any theological discussion here today, in the bad sense of the word, about what the priority objectives are and that it was possible in the course of the discussion to arrive at a broad consensus view, showing that economic dynamism is not incompatible, a liberalized and dynamic internal market is not incompatible with justice and social cohesion. we must work on both fronts simultaneously for greater market liberalization but also for greater social cohesion. it is true that if we have reached this consensus, which i have been able to see here today, it confirms that it is possible in europe to make our diversity and the diversity of views that exists in this parliament and in our society a strength and not a weakness. i am particularly pleased to see that it is possible for a programme which is a programme for change, a partnership which is a partnership for renewal, to have a broad consensus. i promised you, ladies and gentlemen, when i first came to this parliament, that i would work in a situation of complicity with parliament. i told the president; i told all the political forces. the commission is proving that it delivers on its promises. we have heard your concerns in these debates and we are ready to work on this positive complicity relationship with parliament. i would therefore like to congratulate parliament. i would also like to express my willingness and that of the whole commission to work with you and ask for your support. your support is also your criticism when you feel that there are grounds for criticising the commission, because with your support we can then be sure that we will be moving forward over the next five years with our partnership for the renewal of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session in february.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, commissioner, the palestinian presidential elections, particularly in view of the context of the occupation in which they took place, represented, after years of darkness, a genuine new fact, the hope of a beginning of change in the troubled middle east. europe has been the most credulous in this process, supporting it politically and economically. europe's presence is visible and important, thanks to the work of the observer mission headed by mr michel rocard, which supported the equally excellent work of the palestinian central electoral commission, with which the parliament's delegation, headed by mr mcmillan-scott, also worked closely. the palestinian leadership's farsighted decision to entrust the succession of president arafat to a free and transparent electoral process has been supported by the vast majority of palestinian society. the palestinians want democracy but they also want freedom. for this reason they have looked to a leadership to lead them out of their present situation of despair. the new leader, mahmoud abbas, has already shown, in his election campaign and above all in the acts he is now carrying out, that he is seriously committed both on the internal front, to curbing violence and initiating the reforms indispensable to palestinian society, and to trying to relaunch the peace process. it is now up to the israeli government to show the same constructive will, first by bringing the unilateral acts announced, such as the withdrawal from gaza, back into the negotiations on the road map and by putting an end to the settlement and the construction of the illegal wall and to any unnecessary acts of intimidation against the palestinian population which have nothing to do with security. after these elections, europe has also acquired greater credibility in its role and may perhaps be able to exert its influence on the united states, perhaps taking advantage of the visit of president bush, as the commissioner has mentioned. it is also important to ensure continuity of commitment, because after the presidential elections there will be municipal and administrative elections. i believe we must support the political operation which the palestinian leadership intends to carry out, namely to bring back into the institutional framework the opposition of hamas and jihad, which have instead resorted to terrorism. we must support all this in the perspective of the constitution of the two states. however, this development and the positive assessment we are giving it should also provide a basis for reflection on other middle east crises. i am referring, without euphemism, to the situation in iraq, a situation which is quite different.
i would like to thank mr solana, in particular, for his presence immediately after the elections. i must say that i have met many palestinians who were happy to have him and extremely proud of the fact that he had slept in ramallah. i would like to pay particular attention to concrete matters in my speech. the palestinians have done their part, as commissioner waldner said yesterday, and they have made a clear choice of peace, democracy and freedom. they have chosen the abu mazen programme, which is a clear and unambiguous programme against military drift, whether it be towards terrorist acts against israeli civilians or towards military struggle, which is also provided for by the geneva convention and is legitimate, which i do not approve of. they have therefore chosen precisely a plan of reform, peace and democracy. i think it's important to capture every instance and every change and mutation. there is no doubt that the proposal for a unilateral withdrawal from gaza must also be welcomed, if it is really a withdrawal and, above all, if it is part of the road map, part of a negotiation. i think that the quartet must take back the reins of its action very strongly, in order to avoid what happened after the oslo agreement. at that time, the international community withdrew, leaving two disparate, asymmetrical sides, building settlements and colonies on one side and carrying out extremist and terrorist attacks on the other. the international presence is therefore important. at the same time, it's also helpful to see what's really going on. the european parliament has been very active in the negotiations with the united states and the european community, and we have been very active in the negotiations with the united states and the european community. i shall confine myself to a few examples. the citizens of east jerusalem can no longer go to ramallah, which means not only the destruction of economic life but also, above all, the annexation of a territory, that of east jerusalem, which we consider occupied. it is not just the annexation of jerusalem, the one and indivisible capital, but the annexation of the citizens of east jerusalem. the property of palestinians living in bethlehem, bejalla and ramallah and the property of palestinians in east jerusalem are being confiscated. to do this today, at a time when there is a peace plan, means to reiterate forcefully and in fact that the private property of palestinian citizens who do not live in jerusalem but live in bejalla is also being confiscated. these are not minor matters, but they are things that change the attitude of even those palestinians who have faith and have found hope in the possibility of peace. finally, there is the question of gaza. i was in gaza during the elections. raffa's been closed for 87 days. thousands of innocent palestinians, who are not even suspected terrorists, are stranded on the borders of gaza, sleeping on the streets and have no money. even egyptian taxi drivers suffer when they see palestinians with nothing. also, there's the edf's proposal to demolish 3,000 homes to prevent the tunnels. all things considered, it is therefore important that we go ahead with the road map and seize every opportunity for peace.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as observers of the elections in palestine we can say that a young but proud democracy is indeed being born there. during our mission we saw a palestinian people with a great desire for redemption and a desire to return to normalcy and peace. despite the violence of the past few weeks, the presidential elections have in fact opened a new scenario in the middle east and have been an example for the entire arab world. the european union must therefore now play a central role and be fully committed to supporting the peace process, first of all by relaunching the roadmap which is still the starting point for resuming the negotiations. the news this morning of the reopening of talks between the palestinian national authority and israel also gives hope in this regard. the first important event in the new peace process will be the london conference in march, which will have security, the consolidation of democracy and political, institutional and economic reforms in palestine on its agenda. europe will finally have the opportunity to exercise its authority in the peace process and also, i believe, to relaunch an economic project to support development. we are sometimes surprised to hear that such action is premature and that the european union would not be prepared to support it. it is precisely at this moment that the union must resume its political centrality, including concrete action to support the development of the palestinian economy, with a project monitored by the european union, defined as a new marshall plan for palestine, which was already proposed by italy after 11 september and which has recently been relaunched by great britain. i believe that this is also the way in which palestine can free itself from the poverty and the marginalization which all too often serve to increase the ranks of fundamentalism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are free elections, or almost free elections, and there are others that are not free, such as the forthcoming elections in iraq. once again the european union is complicit in the interests of the united states, including by encouraging reckless acts of interference in the affairs of another state. the same way that a european constitution is imposed on the taxpayers, without their having spoken, resources are withdrawn to support the shameful and useless occupation of iraq. the european union is sailing in the stormy sea of this occupation, where the bulky master ally is sinking, involving the states of the union that have not had the capacity to be independent of the vicious geopolitics of the usa. the vast majority of the iraqi population, which sees the occupants as the cause of the decline in living conditions after the collapse of saddam hussein's regime, will not participate in the sham elections which the official propaganda, with the complicity of the media, portrays as an inevitable opportunity for a democratic transition. the aim is to present as meaningful and founding elections for the new iraqi state the attempt of the usa to survive, at least politically, its obvious exhaustion. it is shameful to commit human resources to supporting and thus political validation of the elections in iraq. it is pretending to be a democracy and it wants to legitimize a puppet administration, thus continuing to be complicit in the aggression against iraq, the motives of which have been shown to be absolutely false and which has been followed, in addition to brutality, by many clear instances of corruption, waste, inflated accounts and fraud against the administration itself. all this is more than enough to call on this parliament, on behalf of many europeans, to dissociate itself from any legitimization of the elections in iraq, and to spare us all the shame and political and moral complicity in this colossal political and media fraud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, commissioner, the european union has vital interests in the middle east and the middle east is now an important part of our neighbourhood policy. the key to stability and economic growth in the region lies in the solution of the israeli-palestinian conflict. in recent years there has been a stalemate which has not allowed the union to assert its weight, unfortunately making the american diplomatic joke 'we play you pay' valid, which means 'we have political weight and you pay the bill'. we have had a terrible year, in which we have seen the united states in an election year, which has frozen george bush's interest exclusively in the war in iraq, in israel in the closure of the sharon government's negotiations and in palestine in the human and political affairs of arafat which had paralysed the national authority. this impasse has cost a great deal of human life, misery and despair. many of us wondered if there was still room for hope and if there were any possible interlocutors. today, as high representative solana explained, a window of opportunity has opened up and it is necessary to seize it. america has a president in his second term who can devote himself to the israeli-palestinian issue with freedom of maneuver. the new israeli government, with personalities like peres, is betting on dialogue. in palestine we have helped and welcomed the first election of president mahmoud abbas, who now enjoys strong popular and international legitimacy, and we support his first moves, such as the attempt to impose a ceasefire on radical groups. it is time for the union to speak with a loud and clear voice. the union must act as a balancing factor and no other actor, not even the united states, has the assets we have, namely the political balance and the resources to support economic growth in the region. it's time to use these assets, to revive the roadmap and the quartet. if we believe, as i do, in the union's foreign policy and in europe as a global actor, this is the time to move from theory to action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that hatred is not the child of ignorance but of education in hatred. since 1948, the israeli-palestinian war has caused thousands of casualties, many of them civilians, and much poverty. two thirds of the palestinian terrorists were university students or young people with high school degrees and it is known that the people of israel have a high level of education. after the election of abu mazen, which was a great demonstration of the democratic commitment of the palestinian people, a new terrorist attack has created difficulties in the newly resumed dialogue. two peoples, condemned to live side by side and faced with complex problems, have found themselves in a new phase in their relations, one open to hope. contrary to expectations, the elections in palestine were held satisfactorily and the new leader expressed his intention to resume peace negotiations with israel, curb extremism and reform the corrupt leadership of the palestinian internal system. it is perhaps too ambitious a programme, but it is nevertheless indicative of the will to change. for its part, israel has opened a dialogue with the new government that has been blocked by an unexpected spiral of violence that has hardened relations. by monitoring the electoral process, the european union has strengthened its position as a privileged interlocutor, demonstrating its willingness and ability to speak to both peoples. we can't stop now. the role of the union is to guarantee a decisive and definitive plan to provide both peoples with a solid basis for change. it is time for europe to take up its responsibilities in the middle east, because our own security is also directly threatened by this endless conflict, the solution of which can only be found by negotiating a firm and definitive peace agreement such as that envisaged in the road map. the international community must help the creation of a palestinian state, while at the same time solving the problems of borders, settlements, refugees, jerusalem, water resources and security. as simon peres said, the hope is that after the time of hatred there will also be a time of sharing, because both peoples will have to share a small territory and grow together in mutual respect, learning to share.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr solana, commissioner, the situation in the middle east needs special attention. the israeli people are living in a very difficult situation, having to live with the constant risk of terrorist attacks, while the palestinian people are living in a situation which is not acceptable. the fact that the palestinian people have been able to observe the elections for the palestinian presidency for a short time gives us a firsthand experience of a reality which is quite incredible when viewed in the normal way. i would like to confirm, by the way, that the elections were conducted in an impeccable manner despite the local reality. the palestinian world is living without reference, without certainty, in a social state of total environmental, work and organizational degradation. in the israeli world, there is a constant search for a defense system. there is aid and support coming from many quarters, but it has not produced any concrete results, at least not yet. i think it is necessary to know the amount of resources that the union has committed to that area in recent years, for what purposes and under what responsibilities. i also think that future investment should be directed towards improving the quality of life in the palestinian territories. commissioner, it is not enough to donate, but we must also check how the money is being used. in this connection, i am awaiting your answer to a specific question of mine. i believe that a concrete commitment to the future, combined with a political commitment to facilitate negotiations between the two states, facilitated by the new palestinian presidency, will perhaps in the future produce results which, up to the present, were certainly not even imaginable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
the agenda includes the oral question (o-0089/2004 b6-0003/2005) by mr schultz and mr ford, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, to the council on the commemoration of auschwitz, and the oral question (o-0090/2004 b6-0004/2005) by mr schultz and mr ford, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, to the commission on the commemoration of auschwitz.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the symbols of nazi ferocity and the vicious persecution have matured in the death camps and the most heinous crime in the history of the 20th century has been committed. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the madness of the concentration camps was born of a ruthless rationality, of a perverse idea of a world that had to erase critical cultures, to make homologation prevail and to identify, in diversity, the enemy par excellence. the day of remembrance cannot be a mere commemoration, it cannot be limited to the rhetorical remembrance of a momentous event, it cannot simply be summed up in the image of that soldier who discovered the horror of auschwitz. on that day the foundation stone was laid for the construction of a europe of peace, a political entity which was to expel the word war from its roots. we have come a long way, but we still have a long way to go in a europe which still does not speak out clearly against war and which is often afflicted with aphasia, while the man of our time, to quote a great poet, 'is still the man of the slingshot and the stone' and continues to kill with exact science, driven to extermination. it is not enough to remember, but we must counter with the same vigour and with unbroken tension the violent impulses of anti-semitism, racism and islamophobia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against women. the planet and europe are being invaded by infectious germs, which are spreading along with the theories of preventive and permanent war, that is, the dogma of the clash of civilizations and the new crusades against the infidels. auschwitz is not only a place buried in the memory of the historiography of nazism, auschwitz is also fear and terror for the materialization of the future.
it is clear that the debate touches on matters which arouse strong emotions, but i would ask all members not to take advantage of it to violate parliament's rules of procedure. in that regard, i would point out that, irrespective of political views, the bureau, examining the rules of procedure with the assistance of the legal service, found that they contained no elements which might lead to a ban on the display of flags on parliament's benches. so those who want to promote this political opinion must be able to get the regulation changed. in view of this, i do not think it is necessary to discuss this matter.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is disturbing to note that, despite the immense tragedy which has struck the jewish world and consequently all of humanity in the last century, there are still new outbreaks of racist and anti-semitic sentiments which are not just in europe. in recent years, we have seen in this parliament too, prejudiced positions against israel, which have certainly not helped to achieve peace in the middle east or to establish a europe more capable of making itself available to fight terrorism and violence in a common way. the knowledge of the murders and tragedies that have befallen mankind in recent history and the fight to prevent such crimes from being repeated are one of the fundamental values of the european union, which is born of the awareness that peace, democracy and respect for others are principles that are not taken for granted but that need to be reaffirmed with force every day. the presence of the political group chairmen of the european parliament at the ceremony marking the 60th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, to which i paid tribute in 1999 together with the italian foreign minister, mr fini, now takes on a special significance, because it represents the unity and the will of the peoples of europe not only to condemn the holocaust but also to continue to fight injustice, violence and discrimination which still exist in europe and the world. however, while condemning the tragic past, we must also express our concern at the reports of anti-semitic demonstrations coming from russia and several european countries. those who still do not understand the need for a full-scale campaign against any manifestation which, openly or surreptitiously, justifies or in any case does not condemn acts of intolerance, racism and anti-semitism, do not realize their own historical ignorance and the fact that they are creating, even for themselves, a chasm from which there is no return.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to an amendment of mine to the resolution. today europe is laying the foundations for a climate of greater peace and tolerance. declaring 27 january 'holocaust remembrance day' and encouraging information about it is a clear sign of the will to overcome and combat intolerance and racism, which i fully support. however, when we think of holocaust remembrance day, we cannot and must not fail to remember and condemn in the same way other holocausts, perhaps less well known but certainly no less serious in view of the crimes committed against humanity. i therefore confirm my full and unwavering support for the document under discussion, which condemns all forms of racism and xenophobia and, in general, all forms of persecution on the basis of ethnic and religious affiliation, and also condemns those events which have represented one of the greatest horrors in the whole of human history, namely the holocaust. i think it is important for parliament to remember that, along with the jewish people, we must not forget, as unfortunately often happens, other peoples and ethnic minorities, who are also victims of genocide and persecution. that is why i have asked in my amendment for the resolution to include the names of the armenians and the kurds, the italians killed by marshal tito in istria and the millions of innocent people exterminated in the soviet gulags, including jews, certainly not less numerous than those killed by the nazis in germany, as our polish friends rightly recall.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the northern league will vote in favour of this resolution. however, in a recent speech we heard that the question of the holocaust had nothing in common with anything less than patriotism, nationalism and movements inspired by it, even going so far as to call for the removal from the benches of parliament of the flags of the national states, flags which represent the healthy feeling of patriotism, in which we continue to believe. this shows how, starting from a just principle, one can arrive at conclusions that are freedom-threatening and against democracy. it is for this very reason that we are very suspicious of this european directive and we remind the commission representatives of the risk that it could be used, as was done recently on these benches, for anti-democratic and illiberal purposes. i also heard a lot of talk about islamophobia during the whole discussion. i think it would be appropriate to ask what the jews in europe and the world are afraid of today, given that the synagogues and jewish centres, at least in the italian and european cities i visit, are defended almost by military manoeuvres 24 hours a day. let us ask ourselves who is really a threat today, spreading racist propaganda on television channels, as well as carrying out physical threats and bombings. the important un assembly has been mentioned, but we must ask ourselves to which countries the empty benches belong. let us remember the danger of islam and of islamist anti-semitic racism, which this parliament should have felt a moral duty to condemn out of respect for the victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to invite minister schmit and mr frattini, whose speech i appreciated, to consider the possibility of launching an initiative for european coordination and implementation of the work of the many national, public and private institutes, foundations and research centres which are working to remember what happened in the camps, but also to remember the many resistance movements against nazism which, for example, led to no less than 48 000 italians dying in the camps. i propose that a european library be set up, a european library, which is the source and guarantor of a recognizable and shared european identity, and which provides for a continuous activity of translation and exchange of all material, especially that coming from the countries that have recently joined the union, of which we are hungry for knowledge, and of those who are about to join it. i believe that this is another way of building a future which sees in memory the opportunity to strengthen a europe based on mutual respect between people, races and cultures.
mr president, i would just like to say that mr ludford was right and his interpretation was correct. however, she did not allow me to intervene. it is clear that there are reservations and discrimination in this parliament. mr cohn-bendit did not understand anything he said, since he was referring to an amendment which had not been tabled in the house. i would like our group to be respected as much as the others, otherwise the racists are the ones who talk out of turn.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given that the barroso commission has been working for months and has set up its own offices, including that of the spokesmen, it is very strange to believe that an italian spokesman has not yet been found. why would you do that? what attempts has president barroso made, also following the numerous parliamentary questions, the urging of commissioner frattini and the request made by the whole body of italian journalists accredited to the commission and the other european institutions? our fight is not a religious one, nor is it a return to sterile nationalism. we are proud of our language: our dante alighieri is the envy of all of us. that is why we cannot understand the fact that an italian-speaking spokesman has not been appointed.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am called upon to present my report on the proposal for a council decision on the exchange of information extracted from judicial records. this is a proposal - as commissioner frattini rightly said - which is only a first step, and it must be taken as a matter of urgency. the aim of the proposed decision must of course be shared by all. the alde group, to which i have the honour of belonging, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which almost unanimously adopted the council's proposal, certainly share this view. the aim is to improve the quality of justice in italy, in europe and in all member states. the concrete action proposed in the proposal for a decision is to share information contained in criminal records. in fact, this sharing was already provided for in the 1959 convention. however, it is technically difficult to make such an exchange of information operational and up-to-date, since the networking of information under the 1959 convention is now once a year and requests are made without a predetermined scope limit. the advantages of the council's proposal are therefore that we have more timely information, while we wait for the computerization to be introduced, to which the commissioner referred, to make information even faster and almost linear. i would like to clear up a misunderstanding for those who have also had a problem with the relationship between data control and confidentiality. the criminal record data are for the convicted like the medical records for the sick: it's a fact. the problem is who uses that data and how they use it. we therefore ask that they be used only by the judicial authorities and between judicial authorities and only in relation to past criminal convictions. that is why the council was right to express the concepts of judicial record and criminal judgment as one of the names to be given to these decisions in advance. i therefore share this work-in-progress which is being done in anticipation of the conclusions to be drawn from the white paper, and i share the principles you have just outlined, commissioner. you said that this decision, and more generally the recommendations which parliament is about to make, must be based on two principles which i think we can all share and which i certainly share with you. the first is that judges' decisions must be implemented quickly. the second principle - you said so - is that there must be mutual recognition and mutual trust in the decisions taken by the courts of the individual countries. thirdly, you said that any assessment of the quality of the work of judges cannot affect the independence of the judiciary. i fully share that view, commissioner, and i would therefore ask you to ensure that the commission gets down to the more concrete facts with regard to these matters. in particular, in addition to listening, i would ask you to specify what you intend to do in the event that a member state shows such a lack of confidence in the courts that, for example, with regard to the european arrest warrant, there are some member states which have not yet done so. we therefore expressly ask that when such matters are discussed the commission should call on the member states which have not yet done so, otherwise it would seem that these member states do not trust the decisions of the other courts and the other member states and that they do not intend to give immediate effect to the decisions of the courts. we also believe that you are right in saying that the independence of the judiciary must be respected: but we also want to know what the commission intends to do when in some member states the members of the executive do not even respect the judiciary and go so far as to ridicule it in front of their own buildings. i believe that the commission's task is also to issue directives and guidelines so that the efforts we are making to improve the quality of justice in europe and in the member states are not being distorted by some member states for very specific reasons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken about the quality of justice and we have examined the report which seems to be based on the intention of anticipating the provisions of the treaty, in particular article iii-271 on the assessment of particularly serious criminal offences, such as those relating to terrorism. it is therefore reasonable to ask whether we are not going too far in this optimistic view of the quality of justice and mutual recognition of the judiciary. in fact, it is precisely in connection with the sensitive subject of terrorism that very serious events occur, such as the judgment no 2849104 of the judge for preliminary hearings in milan, dr forleo, on terrorism. the ruling, concerning the activities of some accused terrorists (whose names were on the list of both the united nations and the european union), makes a unique distinction, invented by the magistrate, between terrorists and guerrillas. the judge in question writes that "violent or guerrilla activities, even if carried out by armed forces other than institutional forces, cannot be prosecuted even at the level of international law, as long as international humanitarian law is not violated". we are facing a hollowing out of the community's rules on terrorism. we are faced with the betrayal of the civil commitment against terrorism that europe has made, also in this house. this is very serious and i feel i must report it.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add nothing to the reports by mr di pietro and mr costa, which i entirely agree with. let me instead reflect on a contradiction we are faced with tonight. it is common knowledge that only a strengthening of judicial cooperation can make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and hence the mutual recognition of judgments, the exchange of information and the harmonisation of procedural safeguards. however, we also know that many member states are doing everything they can to obstruct this judicial cooperation. we therefore believe that its mandate is also to promote - in consultation with the council - a concrete commitment by all the european institutions to this objective. we need more will to do what the european constitution provides for and prescribes, and we would not like it to remain unfulfilled. in the name of judicial cooperation and consultation, mr vice-president, we ask you to speak respectfully but firmly to the italian parliament and the italian government, also because of your past as a minister in that government. italy is the only country that has not transposed the european arrest warrant. what until yesterday could have been simply serious, today - you will agree - is absolutely paradoxical.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the public finances of monetary union also shows the need for a reform of the stability pact. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. it is well known that the ministers meeting in the ecofin council are preparing the text of the reform, but parliament cannot give up the debate. it would therefore be appropriate, before the council takes its final decision, for parliament to have the opportunity to express its views, by means of a specific debate, on the modalities of the reform of the pact. in fact, after the september debate, parliament seems to have retreated into a waiting position. instead, we must give our institution a key role in the reform process, giving all members and all groups the opportunity to outline the possible strategies in concrete terms. we must be concrete and realistic. we cannot write on our documents that we must become the most competitive economy in the world, when the data clearly speaks of stagnating growth. the covenant must therefore be reformed. i am referring to more flexible application of the pact during adverse economic conditions, the need to take due account of structural reforms undertaken by the member states and possibly the possibility of allowing the spread of expenditure on investment directed at achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which are still too far away. in conclusion, i believe that parliament must once again play a leading role in this debate, as the only institution directly representing the citizens of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to the goebbels report to congratulate the honourable member on the excellent approach he has taken to his work, which is focused on the balance between the obvious need for renewal of economic and growth policies in europe and the objectives and conditions of stability. however, in the course of the debate this balance has been compromised and can only be restored if we are reasonable, as mr lulling has just asked. it is not reasonable to approve a report which does not address the need for greater coordination of the economic policies of the member states and it cannot be considered that such a statement does not respect the autonomy of the monetary authorities. it is not reasonable to approve a report which makes no reference to the reform of the stability pact and its relationship with the lisbon objectives while there is clearly progress towards an agreement. it is not reasonable to say that the generalised reduction of tax burdens is decisive for competitiveness, given the excellent performance of both high-tax and low-tax countries. in any case, i wonder whether the european parliament should really be giving directions for a general and generic reduction of taxes, given that no member state would today consider such a proposal credible. similarly, no one would feel that it is reasonable to say that a general and generic increase in working hours would be both desirable and decisive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of services, and has recently introduced a new system of quality control. in conclusion, i believe that the document contains important indications and is the result of good work, but also that the balance of positions on certain points must be restored, renouncing ideological demands and thus making a useful contribution to the debate on the economy taking place today throughout europe.
the commission has already done so. everyone is for nature and the environment. natura 2000 is also a very good idea and a good initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the sacrifices bring few, or few want to bring them. there have also been a number of difficulties in implementing natura 2000 losses of friction that might not have been necessary. i would like to mention the netherlands, for example, which has taken the opportunity to abolish hunting in many parts of its country under the pretext of natura 2000. i think that has created a lot of opposition. commissioner wallström also made it quite clear during the last parliamentary term that natura 2000 and hunting are perfectly compatible. it is also a question of imparting knowledge and of eliminating ambiguities in the application. i am deeply convinced that the officials in your department, commissioner, have done an excellent job in the past. but you can try as hard as you like, but if the conditions are not created, it is not possible. natura 2000 must not be at the expense of the owners and agriculture; there must be no expropriations, but compensation. natura 2000 must not be at the expense of the common agricultural policy and rural development. 15% of the area of the european union of 15 is natura 2000 sites. the remaining 85% of the area, excluding towns and cities, is covered by rural development and agricultural subsidies. you can't take anything away from this big area. i think that is why it would be best to have separate and generous funding.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there's a saying in my country: a healthy person has a hundred wishes; a sick person has only one wish, and that is to get well. there is much wisdom in this saying, and therefore every effort to promote the health of society and of individuals must be supported. i am grateful for the efforts made by the commission, but this action plan is more a survey - and unfortunately the final results have not been taken into account - than an effective, concrete, massive measure to remedy a situation which has been identified as problematic. i do not want to see the glass half empty, as many colleagues have done before me, but i want to see the glass half full and congratulate you on your efforts, but i also encourage you to do more and to be more courageous in dealing with the consequences. the precautionary principle is illustrated by an example of the smoking ban: the italian government recently banned smoking in almost all premises on italian territory. a storm of indignation has swept the country, and yet the effect has undoubtedly been positive. if the money currently spent on tobacco growing - namely one billion euros - were gradually to be used for health purposes, a bold contribution to health could be made here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing in this house with a subject which has been of considerable concern to the committee on transport and to the rapporteur, mr grosch, whom i thank for his prompt and timely report, much of which i share, although not all of it. mr sterckx said that we all share the aims of the single model, although there are certainly differences. he was referring in particular to the administrative renewal of the driving licence for the elderly. i think that this is a subject which as a whole deserves more attention. let me give you an example. i fly in a completely harmless, non-motorized aircraft: i believe that in the event of an accident i could not make any other victims than myself and at most one other individual involved. nevertheless, in italy i am subject to compulsory insurance, a medical examination every two years and a series of administrative and other obligations which, frankly, seem to be exaggerated in relation to the social danger of a motor vehicle which, in the event of an accident, can cause a massacre. so great caution is needed. the aim is therefore to harmonize a sector which has a major impact on the lives of citizens and has clear social implications for the safety of drivers' behaviour. it is therefore not just a document that needs to be type-approved - it is not simply a matter of switching from a paper document to a plastic one - but also of type-approval of driving behaviour. to this end we must enable police officers to identify with certainty the driver who may be in breach of the traffic law. i should also like to refer in particular to the amendments tabled with some of my colleagues on the introduction of the am category licence for mopeds. i think we should be grateful to the two-wheeler because, especially in the countries of southern europe, it helps to solve the serious traffic problems, helps our environment and contributes to a better livability of cities, especially those with a more ancient urban fabric. any dangerous behaviour must be punished and repressed: the instruments for this are not lacking. however, i believe that penalizing two-wheelers, as this directive does in part, is not only harmful to our economies but also to the quality of life in general.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have welcomed and applauded the commission's initiative and mr grosch's work to harmonize the rules on driving licences. we agree on the objectives of preventing fraud in driving licences but above all of activating a tool to facilitate the free movement of union citizens and to contribute to improving road safety. today, european citizens move around and mingle with one another in the streets of europe with great ease. it is no longer sustainable to imagine europeans driving on the same roads with different driving licences, having met too different requirements. this is a classic case where the principle of subsidiarity is essentially inapplicable. i am referring in particular to the streets of my country, italy, during the summer. we cannot think of rules that apply differently because they apply to different people and contexts. the europe of motorists and the europe of road transport is today one of the most successfully integrated european realities, requiring harmonized if not uniform measures. as regards safety and the union's objective of halving the number of road deaths by 2010, if the system for the granting and renewal of driving licences were to contribute even minimally to improving the technical knowledge and skills of drivers and to monitoring the psychophysical condition of drivers, even if it made a very small contribution to improving road safety in europe, it would be welcome. it is for this reason - and certainly not for the sake of unnecessary bureaucratic burdens - that the idea of regularly renewing new licences and of requiring a gradual renewal of existing ones should be emphasized and supported; that agreement should be reached on the idea of combining compulsory training with equally compulsory examinations to ensure the acquisition and maintenance of technical driving skills and that agreement should be reached on the idea of making the issue and renewal of licences subject to the ascertainment of minimum conditions of the mental and physical health of the prospective driver. while common sense calls for uniform rules in all these areas, one area of possible subsidiary differentiation could be the licensing of motorcycles, which is different in the various countries of the union. in this connection, i think it is fair to say that there are countries where access to small motorcycles is earlier than in others. this helps to increase the contribution to the mobility of people in historic centres and can encourage the development of progressive access to the use of increasingly powerful motor vehicles, which is one of the most appreciated features of the directive in question. for these reasons, i think that it would also be possible to allow the equivalence of b and am licences so that motorcycles can always be added to car traffic in the most important historic centres.
the commission's vice-president i can tell you, mr president, that i share your concern. we must ensure that there are no more or less hidden barriers to this opening up of the railway market. you have insisted, among other things, on the safety certificates. it is obvious that an independent authority is needed which can issue these safety certificates on a totally objective basis. and you mentioned some member states, some of which i know well. i'm sure i'm just as demanding of them, and you'll have a chance to see that soon.
the commission's vice-president i would also like to thank you for coming to ask me about one of the important questions which i hope will help to improve road safety in europe. the commission confirms that it is examining the feasibility of an initiative to introduce the use of daytime running lights on all motor vehicles. as you have pointed out, this measure is part of several national road codes and has been recommended in other member states. if the review is positive, the commission intends to submit its proposal after the publication of the mid-term review of the european road safety programme which i mentioned earlier and which is expected in the second half of this year. we will see how to respond to this suggestion. in the meantime, the commission will continue its consultations with the interested parties, in particular the automobile industry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electrical energy in vehicles. these new lights will consume less than the crossing lights, since one of the objections we have is the energy consumption of lighting these lights during the day. as part of the updating of the road safety programme, we will try to answer this question in the light of all the experiences and lessons learned from these experiences.
the commission's vice-president i do not intend, madam member, to delay in taking decisions. i believe that the technical documents will be available in the coming months and, of course, at that time the commission will have to take up its responsibilities and make proposals. i thank you in advance for your support, because you know that in this area some member states will always have reasons for rejecting certain provisions, which we know are likely to reduce the number of people killed in europe.
the commission's vice-president there are already member states where it is compulsory to turn on your traffic lights: the czech republic, denmark, finland, italy, hungary and sweden. france introduced this measure as a recommendation during the winter of 2004/2005. we will be able to start discussions with the automobile industry to equip new vehicles with mechanisms for automatically switching on the traffic lights when the engine is started. next, we shall consider how to introduce the use of daytime running lamps in all motor vehicles. a recent study has shown that, as you pointed out in reply to mrs hedkvist's question, the use of traffic lights during the day will help to reduce the number of road accidents considerably by between 5 and 15%. there was also a problem with motorcyclists, but i think all these problems are being solved. that is all i can say in the present state of affairs. i ask parliament for a little patience so that we can really prepare this package of complementary measures for better safety on europe's roads.
the commission's vice-president first, a little back story: the commission is making the study on the crossroads available to you. i didn't have the information, but the study is at your disposal. i now reply to mrs vincenzi: in accordance with its white paper, the commission has committed itself, in its communication of 16 february on strengthening passenger rights, to examine in 2005 how best to improve and guarantee passenger rights in the different modes of transport. this communication addresses the issue of passenger rights in the road sector in the context of international passenger transport services by coach. as regards road safety, which we have already discussed at some length, mr president, the 2001 white paper proposed a halving of the number of road accidents by 2010. there were 50 000 killed in 2001 in the countries of the present union, namely the union of 25 member states; there must be no more than 25,000 in 2010. the european parliament and the council have therefore adopted this ambitious objective. in 2003, the commission adopted an action plan on the vehicle, user behaviour and road infrastructure, three elements, in other words. well, we're going to publish this year the report on the efforts to achieve this goal. and as i have said, and i repeat it very strongly, we will have to make new legislative proposals, including one on road infrastructure audits and inspections. i would add, however, for the benefit of parliament, that the behaviour of motorists must also be taken into account, and we will have to see what we can do to bring the rules in force throughout the union into line somewhat, also in this area.
thank you, commissioner. i would ask you, however, to be more explicit than in your interpretation of article 16 of the treaty establishing the european community, which seems to me to imply a right of consumers to mobility and therefore to the definition of minimum safety standards in the field of services. i therefore ask you whether it would be possible to begin to consider motorways, at least those for which there is a charge, as a service of general interest, and this also to avoid that the legitimate need for safety, which led to the definition of the charter of passenger rights for the airline sector and in the future also for the railway sector, does not penalise the competitiveness of these carriers in relation to motorways. i think that putting all the actors on the same level and increasing safety for all must be an explicit objective.
the commission's vice-president in its communication, the commission undertook, in accordance with the white paper, to examine during 2005 the possibility of presenting legislative measures to extend the rules on the protection of passengers with reduced mobility to other modes of transport, in particular to maritime transport and international coach transport. that said, mr president, you have understood correctly that the third railway package contains a legislative proposal introducing minimum rules on assistance for people with reduced mobility. i know that parliament is committed to this third railway package and that it does not want the various measures in this package to be dissociated. i think this is very important and that the measure concerning persons with reduced mobility will be in addition to those which came into force on 17 february 2005, that is to say last thursday, on denied boarding, cancellation and long delay of a flight. all this has shown europeans that the union, its parliament, its council and its commission are also there to make everyone's daily life easier, to ensure greater security for everyone. i am grateful to you for having stressed the importance of giving special attention to people with reduced mobility.
member of the commission. one of the main issues in the proposed council regulation laying down general provisions of support for rural development from the eu rural development fund is the review of intermediate less-favoured areas. the commission proposed a revision of the existing classification based, to a large extent, on socio-economic criteria which change over time. it seems that, decades after their designation, some of these areas would not qualify as lfas due to the evolution of their socio-economic features. this was the reason for the critical observations made both by the court of auditors in its special report on less-favoured areas, and by the european parliament. our own evaluation studies also confirmed these observations. the commission cannot ignore these observations and this explains its proposal. from the new period onwards, lfas should be addressed on the basis of objective natural criteria which do not change over time, thereby corresponding to a permanent handicap, such as low soil productivity or poor climate conditions. as a result of the application of the new criteria, areas may no longer qualify for lfa status and farmers located in these areas may no longer be eligible for the intermediate lfa payment. the level of compensation is a distinct issue from the delimitation of a less-favoured area. support is granted per hectare and should compensate farmers for the additional costs incurred and income foregone due to the handicap to agricultural production in the areas concerned. in its proposal for the next programming period, the commission will introduce a distinction between mountain areas and other less-favoured areas with regard to the maximum compensation payable. since mountain areas are affected by the most severe handicaps, the commission proposes setting the maximum amount to eur 250 per hectare, while the maximum amount for other categories is set at eur 150 per hectare.
commission. we are now working on the conditions for the new less-favoured areas. we will settle upon them very soon – during the first half of march. you are right, there will be losers, but i am quite sure there will be winners as well.
member of the commission. this is part of the ongoing political discussions in the council and parliament on the new regulation for rural development policy. to take out the discussion on less-favoured areas and keep it for another decision would, in my view, be out of the question. however, you will have every opportunity to make your statements during the discussion here in parliament on the new legislation for the rural development policy.
member of the commission. one of the reasons why this discussion is on the table now is that the court of auditors has pointed out the difficulties of maintaining the present situation. things have changed over the last few decades, and those areas that were less-favoured areas 20 or 25 years ago may no longer be fulfilling the same criteria. that is why things are going to be changed.
member of the commission. the definition of mountain areas is based exclusively on natural handicaps such as altitude and slopes or a combination of the two. unlike the delineation of other less-favoured areas, the delineation criteria for mountain areas have not been contested in the recent special report of the european court of auditors on support for less-favoured areas, which i mentioned in my previous answer. evaluations of rural development programmes show the relevance of support for the less-favoured areas to maintain mountain-farming populations and for the land management in mountain areas, including landscape and environmental protection. under these circumstances, the commission did not propose to modify the classification criteria for this section of the less-favoured areas. in its proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development for the next programming period, the commission introduces a distinction between mountain areas and other less-favoured areas as regards the maximum amount of compensation. since mountain areas are affected by the most severe handicaps, it is proposed to increase the maximum amount for those areas from eur 200 to eur 250 per hectare.
the commission has already done so. i am grateful for the clear answer and also for the indication that the commission intends to pursue this distinction in the next programming period. i would also like to know whether it would not be sensible, and if you could check this, to introduce parameters for mountain areas, that is to say, that mountain areas are defined as areas above a certain altitude and with a certain degree of inclination, that is to say, that objective criteria are set so that there are no overlaps and no competitive situations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr grosch, on his work. the directive on driving licences is very complex and articulated. i think that overall it represents a great step forward in terms of freedom of movement, reducing the possibility of fraud and working towards greater road safety. more than 40 000 people die on europe's roads every year, a worrying figure that must be dealt with seriously and urgently. among the victims, one of the most exposed categories is that of motorcyclists. italy has a third of all europe's two-wheelers and 60 percent of all scooters: i have therefore followed with concern the debate on age limits, which fortunately was resolved by accepting a certain degree of flexibility. in italy, for example, children start riding motorbikes at the age of fourteen, and several studies show that this is not the age group where the risk is highest. in our country, especially in the big cities, scooters and mopeds are extremely widespread means of transport which represent valid alternatives to the car and the way to increase safety is certainly not to eliminate them from circulation but to educate them in mobility, through the introduction of training and preparation courses in schools. the gradual approach is generally appreciated, but the report introduces an excess of regulation which does not improve the commission's proposal and does not go in the direction of the desired harmonization. what is the point of granting motorcycle licences at 24 and allowing for the possibility of a car licence at only 17? finally, the introduction of access tests for each category does not allow the user, much less the public authorities, to manage and control the system without having the slightest certainty of obtaining security results. the problem must be tackled with courage, without penalizing motorcyclists in comparison with other categories of motorcyclists just to clear our conscience. i would ask all colleagues to reflect on these two points in order to raise safety levels and achieve the objective of harmonization by introducing sensible, workable and manageable rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the importance of promoting safety, particularly for motorcycles. i think it is useful to harmonize in this context four general principles which are already in the directive. i refer to the principle of progressive access and the fundamental role of training, the need not to discriminate between motor vehicle and motor vehicle drivers when obtaining a licence, the awareness that speed and power-to-weight ratio are to be considered as one of the main causes of accidents and that the european landscape is very diverse. however, this diversity must make clear the strong need for greater safety and responsibility in driving, but not the affirmation of a four-wheel monoculture over the two-wheel one. in this context, i am tabled, together with other colleagues from the pse, a number of amendments which aim, on the one hand, to limit the speed of motor vehicles which can be driven from the age of 18 and to take account of the different size of the fleet in the various countries, and on the other hand, to reaffirm the criterion of progressive access, rewarding driving experience and practical experience in the transition from mopeds to faster motorcycles, considering that the ability to move in urban traffic or to establish a correct relationship with other road users is acquired in the transition from one category to another. in a better harmonization of these aspects, i believe that the subject of motorcycles, which has been raised by many, can be reduced to a single design, in the framework of a proposal which i welcome with the rapporteur.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the council's decision to make 2005 the year of the mediterranean. that is why we want the union to play a more significant political role in this area. the mediterranean is our priority today, because it is where the greatest challenges for peace, security, the fight against terrorism, development, respect for rights, protection of the environment and the positive governance of immigration are at stake. the neighbourhood policy must reinforce the spirit of barcelona, inspired by the partnership method which we could now orient towards co-development. ten years after the 1995 barcelona intergovernmental conference, although the results are substantially below the expectations that this process had set in motion, we must, in any case, note the progress made in mutual relations and in improving the implementation of the meda programme. we are also encouraged by the resumption of dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian authority following the palestinian presidential elections. at the same time, we are aware of the complexity of the whole situation in the middle east and we express our concern about the situation in lebanon following the attack which took the life of former prime minister hariri. we also call for the withdrawal of the syrians from lebanon and, at the same time, for the withdrawal of the israelis from the golan. all of which is to say that it may be time to resolve the entire middle east conflict. we appreciate the role of egypt in this context, but at the same time we are concerned about the internal situation in that country, which has just seen the arrest and detention of dr nur, a member of the egyptian parliament. finally, we call for a more decisive and coherent role for the european union in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the whole area. the neighbourhood policy should require more appropriate instruments and institutions. we also call on the commission and the council to take greater account of the role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, a fundamental democratic instrument which must be supported and consolidated, thanks to the efforts of men like renzo imbeni. she 's taking her first steps: it is the first time that it has met outside europe, in cairo, and we hope that under your presidency, president borrell, an extraordinary meeting will be held on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of barcelona.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the barcelona declaration, the objectives set by that conference are still far from being achieved in the mediterranean. it is a bitter observation, but with realism and without hypocrisy, one must look at the facts. the social, economic, cultural and human partnership between the two shores of the mediterranean is based on a terrain of uncertainties and contradictions. the barcelona process has been slow, especially with regard to the implementation of the meda programme, which has only been accelerated in recent years. the palestinian-israeli conflict has seen the european union unable to play a significant and decisive role. the shameful trade in illegal immigrants between the two sides of the atlantic continues to mark the failure of the desired policy of cooperation between the countries of origin and those of destination. we are, however, optimistic and welcome the positive signals coming from that area. the change in the attitude of the tripoli government towards international terrorism, the recent breakthrough in relations between israel and palestine, the launch of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, are all very encouraging. the european union must finally play a more decisive political role in order to create a genuine climate of cooperation, growth and peace in that area. otherwise, this tenth anniversary of the barcelona conference, this 2005 devoted to the mediterranean, may appear to be nothing more than a calendar failure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago in barcelona the european union and its mediterranean neighbours launched an ambitious programme to create an area of stability, peace and economic progress in the region through closer mutual understanding. it is not all that has been achieved and we must relaunch the whole process more effectively. this year, 2005, may be the year. we wanted above all a zone of lasting peace, and these last ten years have unfortunately been more difficult than the previous ones in the relations between the palestinians and the israelis, whose conflict has in some way affected the stability of the euro-mediterranean area. today, however, concrete evidence seems to show that misunderstandings and tensions can be overcome in order to resolve the decades-long conflict in that area. on the other hand, we must mention one positive achievement: the establishment of the anna lindt foundation, based in alexandria, egypt. we expect it to play an important role in strengthening cultural exchanges between all the countries of the euro-mediterranean area and in the growth of a civil society that is as dynamic and as pluralistic as possible in those countries where there are still delays. the commission could and should consider linking the foundation with other smaller euro-mediterranean satellite cultural centres scattered throughout the area, which would also be able to spread the same messages of friendship, mutual understanding and peace among the peoples of the euro-mediterranean region and which would also serve as centres of culture, research and training for the many immigrants in the same area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the comprehensive and precise report. i think, however, that there is a certain reverence and disdain - as i have heard in the speeches of the commission and the council - for calling powerful people by their names when they are responsible for the violation of human rights. the european union must not allow itself to be swayed by the united states, which is the only country in the world to have a nuclear weapon. if it were true that prison conditions are a reflection of the degree of civilization attained by a society, then the situation of the west would be very dramatic in the face of situations such as those of abu ghraib and guantánamo. in this case it is not enough to ask the united states to clarify the situation. there is nothing to be clarified here but there is a political and moral duty to express strong condemnation. i also believe that human rights violations in afghanistan should be condemned, even when they are committed by international forces. the united states should also be asked to ratify the rome statute of the international criminal court. the law must be the same for all and no one should enjoy a kind of international immunity. we have recently voted in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, and in so doing we have contracted a debt to be honoured: the european union must continue to monitor day by day the development of the situation, not only in the legislative field but also in everyday politics, with regard to respect for human rights, particularly of the kurdish population, political recognition and commitment to the solution of this conflict, but also the recognition of the republic of cyprus and the withdrawal of troops from the northern part of the island. these contents must be made explicit in the report. human rights must also be interpreted in a broader sense: we cannot condemn only the violence and the death penalty applied to individual persons, forgetting about the whole political choices that condemn millions of people to death. i am referring to those liberal economic and financial policies which force, for example, 800 million people to live on less than a dollar a day and which prevent tens of millions of people from accessing anti-aids treatments. in the amazon, where 20 percent of the world's fresh water flows every day, tens of thousands of people in manaus have no access to drinking water because the service has been privatized. here is an example of how our development model tramples on the most important human right, the right to exist.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of human rights, i take this opportunity to quote a disappeared person. it is not a natural person, but the right of peoples to self-determination, which is unfortunately very often hidden, ignored, trampled upon and violated. too often, when we talk about human rights, we are referring only to the rights of the individual, who rightly must be respected in his freedom, integrity and health. however, the rights of peoples are equally important, and one of the most important of these is the right to self-determination. that is why, as i have not found any trace of it in the report, i have tabled an amendment to fill this gap, hoping that it will be welcomed by colleagues from all political parties.
the relevant services will certainly take note of your observation. in the meantime, however, you are authorized, together with your colleague, to occupy your present post, which will not affect the use of the voting cards either. we'll make sure of that.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the commission declares that, with a view to ensuring that business operators in the european union are not placed at a competitive disadvantage to business operators outside of it, it will involve business representatives and trade federations in the legislative process that will lead to the adoption of provisions allowing the amendment of the community customs code. this will include those where provisions resulting from international agreements may be granted by publishing relevant documents and draft legal texts for meetings of the customs code committee on the europa website, so that traders and trade federations can make their views known to the commission and the committee before a decision is taken. secondly, the commission will hold regular consultations on specific issues with a trade contact group that is already established and is made up of representative european trade federations. thirdly, representative trade experts will be involved in committee proceedings in accordance with article 9 of the rules for the committee procedures.
the rapporteur. mr president, two minutes is too long to sum up the significance of the work we have done. the value of the proposal is well known and it is commendable that an honourable compromise has been reached between the commission, the council and parliament, which allows parliament to vote - i hope with the largest possible majority - on this report. the signal is clear: the european union is committed to considering vocational training as one of the keys to winning the battle against international competition and in this sense sends a message to businesses and individual countries in the union. this message has a value of its own which, if confirmed by the unanimity of parliament, would take on even greater importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike some of my colleagues, i believe that this parliament looks with sympathy and closeness to the moldovan people and in particular to their efforts to achieve a complete democratic system and greater civil progress. we are bound by deep bonds and also by common interests and we want to continue the cooperation already started under the programme of proximity. we are aware of what is happening, of the contradictions and delays, but also of the positive action taken by political and social actors, institutions and associations, in particular lay and catholic associations, which are fighting to defend the inviolable rights of children and to combat the trafficking of girls for prostitution. there's a two-fold theme to address: the european parliament has a duty to protect human rights and political rights. in this respect, the elections on 6 march are an important moment and it is right to ask that they be held with the greatest possible transparency in order to ensure the widest possible participation. i think it is sacrosanct to ask the governments and the states in which so many moldovan citizens live, including italy, to create the operational conditions so that thousands of moldovan immigrants can exercise their right to vote.
at the end of the debate i would like to say that i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the joint debate is scheduled for the following questions: oral question (b6-0005/2005) by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, and by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development, to the council; and oral question (b6-0006/2005) by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, and by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development, to the commission on the subject of 'action against hunger and poverty'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, poverty is not a fatality but the result of political and economic choices at national, regional and international level, and i believe it is time to make it illegal. outside the law. the number of people in extreme poverty has increased - and i don't want to bore you with information or numbers, because you already have them - but, as stated in the new york declaration, the biggest scandal is not so much the existence of hunger and poverty, but rather the persistence of this problem despite the presence of the human and material resources needed to deal with it. this declaration, which mr barón crespo also mentioned - according to which it was signed by 108 governments, whereas i have heard that it was signed by 111 - is strongly desired both by president lula and by the countries of the quintet. the latter pointed to new financing instruments for development which i am not going to list here (taxation and similar strategies). while i support them, i believe that these new instruments should be seen as complementary and not as replacements for those already in existence and that they should be merged into a global fund managed by the united nations. the fight against poverty in poor countries, but now also in the so-called rich countries, is in fact a fight for the right to life and is also the best weapon against fundamentalism and brutal conflict. the structural adjustment programmes and the unbridled liberalization have certainly not improved living conditions in these countries. the millennium development goals, to which mr barón crespo referred, are to be regarded as a crucial intermediate stage, but certainly not the final stage. i also believe that statements of principle must be followed up by concrete action, including the doubling of development aid. i am pleased that some european countries - denmark, the netherlands, luxembourg and sweden - already allocate 0.7%, and that others are starting down the same road, while i am very sorry that in my own country, italy, the opposite trend is taking place. i hope it can be reversed. finally, we are also committed to debt cancellation and i believe that transparent management of aid must also be a fundamental and explicit commitment of the eu. we are not and should not feel alone. the role of the united nations and its agencies must also be developed and enhanced.
at the end of the debate i would like to say that i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the agenda for the joint debate is as follows: the oral question (b6-0007/2005) by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development, and mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, and mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy to the council on the subject of 'terms of the wto agreement on textiles and clothing'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was in a meeting with the united nations representative. i would like to clarify why we have made this request. with the entry into force of the agreement and the signing of the quota system, many developing countries which have made textile and clothing production one of their major economic resources will have to face a social and economic disaster, a drastic restructuring which will also affect economically dominant countries such as ours. more than 60 countries risk being cut off from the market to make way for the giant china, whose competitiveness is based not only on low wages - much lower than in vietnam and cambodia - but also on more advanced factories and a vastly improved transport network. by some estimates, china will take 50 percent of the u.s. clothing market and 29 percent of the european market, followed by india in second place. it could be argued that the abandonment of a complex system of quotas and preferential treatment would primarily benefit industries in developing countries. however, the liberalisation of the market directly benefits the major producers and not the pvs. i would like to reiterate that trade is a tool, but it will not and cannot solve the problem of development, as is evident from the liberalization of the sugar and banana sectors. recent country reports on the export of the textile industry show a negative economic and social impact to the detriment of these countries. it is well known that producing countries are moving to areas where labour costs are much lower, with the consequence of extreme labour exploitation and social dumping problems rather than guaranteed minimum standards. to remain competitive, many countries, such as the philippines or bangladesh, worsen working conditions by destroying workers' rights. the contradictions emerging from this work represent a challenge as to how to help not to destroy these economies on the one hand, while ensuring that the economies of our countries can also be assessed differently on the other. we have also asked what instruments should be used to prevent such contradictions from becoming so violent.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and council, today we are reiterating all the concerns that were raised in the parliamentary debate in january 2004, but above all we are highlighting the inadequacy of the measures indicated by the prodi commission in relation to the crisis in the textile and clothing sector, which has been undermining the industry for some years now, with the loss of thousands of jobs. it is enough to mention the lack of willingness to tackle the problem with specific programmes. now we hope that there are other guidelines. the high level group and the commission proposed seven actions to help the textile industry strengthen its competitiveness: i would like to stress one point. we have in europe particularly protective labour legislation which raises the cost of products by a long way. we cannot allow unfair competition from certain non-european countries based on very low labour costs and, above all, the exploitation of child labour. in addition to calling for greater corporate social responsibility, european citizens will need to be made aware of ethical purchasing through campaigns. in this sense, labelling that enables the consumer to easily identify products manufactured in compliance with the fundamental labour rights defined by the ilo is essential for the assumption of responsibility by the purchaser as well. in addition to the measures to combat counterfeiting, i would like to stress the suggestion that action be taken to support traditional textiles with targeted programmes, also in order to avoid further homologation of textile products, which is certainly not very useful for promoting territorial identities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, years ago the british commissioner responsible for international trade was asked: what is the minimum market share to be secured for the textile sector in europe? the answer was: "none, if the market moves in this direction". the commissioner's prophecy has come true today, after the quota measures on imports of textile products from china have been removed. the risk-market does not exist when one is guided by common sense but when one is guided by presuppositional reasoning. the textile sector is on its knees, with all the consequences for the development of the economy and for the welfare of our fellow citizens. the market reaction was immediate in these two months of 2005. applications for import licences from china have increased. the small textile producers are largely closing down and becoming importers. they close the factory and lay off workers, thus becoming sellers of products that are put on the market at a high cost, even though they are of poor quality. it is therefore necessary to determine whether the commission and the council intend to implement the possible measures, recognized and permitted under the cmos, to mitigate the negative effects of the abolition of quotas. but first we must understand the philosophy of the commission and the member states. we believe that among the possible measures, the protection of the trademark of origin remains the most important. the european quality mark, with the specific name of the european country of origin, is therefore the first objective for us to achieve if we want to implement not just the defence of europe but respect for what europe produces. the commission and the council are aware that, given the current situation in the textile sector, the whole of the european industry may disappear completely from the world and from our markets. how do they intend to react within the wto to the forthcoming calls for liberalization in this or that sector of production, where the same consequences as in textiles could be reproduced? we are waiting for a reassuring answer, commissioner, otherwise we will be forced to think that as europe advances, certain sectors of european production, and, as far as we are concerned, to a considerable extent, also italian, will be forced to close shop, with much respect for social cohesion and the european model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the high level group on textiles contains indications for seven different actions to support the competitiveness of the sector. the group also recommended the establishment of a chinese import control system as from 1 january 2005. unfortunately, however, the same group was not able to express a position on the trademark of origin because of differences of opinion within it. today, in a leading italian newspaper, there is an article by commissioner mendelson on made in italy, according to which the union has a duty to inform consumers so that they recognize a shirt made in china by a made in italy. i agree and i would add that strict labelling rules are in line with this duty. so, as regards the system of control of chinese imports, i would first like to know, after about two months since the restrictions were lifted, what the results of the monitoring action are. secondly, on the question of origin labelling, i ask the commission and subsequently the council whether they intend to take action soon in favour of compulsory labelling of the origin of goods, and i would point out that this action is strongly requested by italian and not only italian textile companies.
quality and safety of products, protection of the environment and social rights, consumer protection, respect for the rules of international trade, technological development - these are all issues on which the european union has made its war horse and on which it is basing most of its political strategies for the coming years. sustainable economic development, market liberalization and the well-being of our citizens are our objectives and cannot be the cause of the loss of competitiveness of our own products within our own territory in favour of goods that are far from our standards of quality and safety! our values and commitments should therefore not be penalized, and with them thousands of enterprises, especially small ones at the base of our social fabric, should be valued and defended in the domestic and international sphere. we therefore call for the utmost protection of our trademark of origin and promotion of the quality mark (with careful monitoring and severe punishment of any counterfeiting and attempted fraud to the detriment of the consumer), a stronger voice in bilateral relations to stop or limit the devaluation of the yuan, the ridiculous bank rates, the huge investments for new machinery that so favor the chinese market.
acting president of the council. mr gotovina's arrest is not a precondition. what is mentioned in the conclusions is effective cooperation with the court. and it is in the light of this cooperation that it will be decided whether negotiations can be opened.
acting president of the council. i don't have much to add. we are in contact with the croatian government. the commission is fully aware of the need to cooperate with the court and, as i have already said, it has never been claimed that arrest was a precondition, since if the man you have referred to is in hiding, as it seems to be the case, it is not possible to give any assurance. the fact remains that the croatian government must do everything possible to cooperate effectively in the most effective way with the court. it is on the basis of this cooperation that it will be evaluated.
i have to say, madam president, the president-in-office's assurances are very encouraging and are welcomed here. i would just ask you to also inform commissioner rehn that the arrest of general gotovina is not a condition but that good cooperation is absolutely necessary; he said otherwise. he should also be told that if he has any proof of the whereabouts of general gotovina, wherever he is in the world, he should report it to the appropriate authorities and not polemicise in public.
acting president of the council. madam president, in order to complete the reform of the common agricultural policy decided in june 2003, the council adopted on 29 april 2004 a regulation aimed at partially decoupling support for cotton, olive oil, tobacco and hops and integrating it into the single payment scheme. this reform should enter into force on 1 january 2006. with regard to the cotton sector in particular, it was agreed that, in order to avoid disruption of production in the community's producing regions, support should remain partly linked to the cultivation of cotton in the form of a crop-related payment per eligible hectare. the amount of the aid should ensure economic conditions in regions favourable to cotton growing which ensure the continuation of the activity and prevent the cotton crop from being supplanted by other crops. to this end, the total aid available per hectare for each member state was set at 35% of the national share which producers received indirectly through the vineyard operators during the reference period 2000-2002. the establishment of a base area for each member state, in order to restrict the areas planted with cotton, responds to budgetary constraints and to the specificities of this crop. the setting of ceilings for cotton production is also in line with the international negotiations at the wto, the doha round, where the concerns of the developing countries, and in particular the west african cotton producing countries - much has been said this afternoon - have been expressed for this production sector. the community intends to send an important signal to the wto, and in particular to the developing countries, through this reform.
substitute writer. mr president, i would just like to ask, also in the light of the previous debate on the invasion of products from china and the countries which you call 'developing countries', whether the council has calculated what this ceiling imposed on european producing regions might cost and whether it is the council's intention, in the future, if it should become apparent that the aid provided is not sufficient, to increase aid in order to avoid that the cotton sector also succumbs to the invasion of products coming from other parts.
mr president, i would like to ask the council whether, when we talk about encouraging imports from the least developed countries, we also take into account factors such as the protection of workers in those countries, in terms of social security but above all of working hours and conditions, and whether we also take into account environmental protection, in order to avoid negative effects on the environment and negative effects on our economy by those who produce without respecting the strict rules to which we must adhere.
the agenda includes the recommendation for second reading (a6-0027/2005) by mercedes bresso, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending council directive 84/450/eec and directives 97/7/ec, 98/27/ec and 2002/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 0000/2004 of the european parliament and of the council (the 'unfair commercial practices directive').
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr bresso, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their very constructive approach to the second reading. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i hope that the house will support the proposals contained in mrs bresso's recommendation, which have received unanimous support in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. all the amendments proposed to the commission's recommendation are acceptable. the amendments are in line with the aims of the directive to ensure consistent consumer protection throughout the european union, which will increase consumer confidence and make things easier for legitimate businesses. it is also possible to apply them in practice. this directive protects the consumer and at the same time is good for the internal market and our competitiveness in general. it will replace the existing cluster of national regulations with a coherent regulatory framework. for traders, this means a coherent set of rules wherever they operate in the european union. for consumers, it means new means of protection in certain areas, such as aggressive practices, and the assurance that consistent rules are applied throughout the european union. we hope that you will support this package so that we can put this new law into effect.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on unfair trading practices was adopted by parliament at first reading on 20 april 2004. the directive provides for a general prohibition of unfair trading practices and an indicative and non-exhaustive list of general and specific examples of unfair trading practices. the main purpose of this directive is to achieve a high level of consumer protection, as the commissioner has pointed out, and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, in such a way as to promote commercial transactions and, consequently, economic growth. the original intention of the directive was based on a sufficiently high degree of harmonisation of consumer protection on the one hand and on the application of the principle of country of origin and mutual recognition on the other. parliament, at first reading, introduced amendments to bring the proposal into better balance by introducing additional consumer protection elements. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new legal basis for the protection of the environment, which would allow member states to maintain more stringent national provisions for five years after the directive enters into force. parliament also provided for the commission to report to parliament every five years on the application of the directive and to propose, if necessary, the adaptation of the annex. the most important amendments adopted by parliament at first reading covered a whole range of issues, in particular the inclusion of the definition of vulnerable consumers and codes of conduct, consumer participation and the drafting of these codes and other amendments. the council's common position, which has been sent to us, has of course been examined by the commission and we have considered, at the outset, that we should base ourselves solely on the amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading, especially in order to avoid reopening the debate on points already experienced during the previous discussions in order not to prolong the time. as regards in particular the so-called country of origin principle, which has been excluded from the proposal, we have considered that it is no longer necessary to ask for its inclusion given the level of harmonisation of consumer protection achieved. it is important to note that the common position incorporated most of parliament's amendments, in particular the notion of the vulnerable consumer, the participation of consumer associations in the drafting of the codes, the inclusion of the definition of improper packaging among the aggressive practices. the council also accepted parliament's proposal for a derogation from five to six years for the application of the legislation. we were satisfied with the compromise reached in the common position, but felt it necessary to reintroduce certain amendments tabled at first reading, which were intended to strengthen considerably consumer protection. in particular, we have proposed to re-introduce safeguard provisions in the following areas: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to restrict the use of the product to after-sales guarantees, the right to substitute, products similar to those of another manufacturer and designed to mislead the consumer, plus advertising to minors. in particular, with regard to the latter point, advertising is not prohibited but the prohibition of commercial practices that could put children under too much pressure is strengthened. after the draft report had been amended several times, the main points were summarized in a summary report, which safeguards parliament's prerogatives but also takes account of the council's common position. in particular, the amendments concerning the consideration of social, cultural and linguistic factors in the definition of the average consumer in the courts were unanimously accepted by the committee on the internal market; the prohibition on a trader claiming that a product has been approved by a public or private body when it has not been approved; the prohibition of promoting sales by acting as a mere consumer or a non-professional seller; finally, it was considered unfair to give the false impression that the consumer had won a prize when the prize did not exist or was subject to the payment of certain costs. in conclusion, i believe that, with the slight amendments proposed, it is useful to proceed with the adoption of this directive, which will represent, for both consumers and traders in the european union, a step forward in the certainty of the legislative framework and in the protection of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. i would like to give, and i apologize, one last technical warning: as some issues have arisen in the revision of the translation, the text to be considered is the one licensed by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). i would like to thank the first rapporteur, mrs fiorella ghilardotti, the commission, the council and my colleagues in the imco committee for the fruitful cooperation which has enabled us, as has already been mentioned, to adopt the report unanimously.
member of the commission. mr president, i should just like to say once again very briefly that this is a very important piece of legislation, not only for the protection of the consumer – i would say more than anything else – but also for the completion of the internal market and to help and protect bona fide traders. it is a realistic compromise; like all compromises, i am sure that many of us would like to certain aspects go further. however, it is a realistic and workable compromise. i agree with mrs wallis that this is a good example of how cooperation between the three institutions can produce positive results for european citizens. most of the concerns expressed today are met by the legislation. i remind you that, in respect to children and other vulnerable consumers, there is still the possibility of stricter measures by the member states based on health, safety, taste and decency. this gives member states room for manoeuvre. the derogation period of six years for higher protection and standards will be very useful. in the meantime, the commission will come back with a report on the application and transposition of the directive, and we will also review every aspect and see how we can take it even further. in this respect, we will see how we can proceed with updating and increasing, if necessary, the list of practices contained in annex i. i must remind you that the list may be modified only by revision of the directive. mr harbour was right: my commitment to parliament is to give priority to enforcement and implementation. otherwise, we can adopt the best laws but, unless they are transposed and implemented by the member states, they will be of no value to european citizens. this will be the commission's first priority and will be reflected in the report, where we will present to you any problems in implementation. i look forward to working together with you to get the member states to implement and enforce this legislation. finally, i wish once again to thank the rapporteur, mrs bresso, for her excellent work. i also wish to thank the groups, the shadow rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee, who helped a lot in this respect. i am very proud that this important piece of legislation comes under my competence. i am proud and very happy and take it as my duty to ensure that it will be transposed properly by the member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report (a6-0029/2005) by mr jiří maštálka, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the promotion of health and safety at work.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have here a report which has been worked out very carefully and which contains an excellent catalogue of demands. a compliment and a thank you to mr. maštálka. i was surprised at the great scepticism which an official of the commission showed from the outset towards this report. i am glad to hear from commissioner špidla today that he fully supports the direction of this proposal. the unusual procedure followed by mrs weisgerber in tabled ing four successive amendments is not clear to me; i do not understand its content either. for example, if someone wants to displace the unions as co-responsible for safety at work, then it is an expression that no improvements were sought in this area. the fundamental right of workers to health, safe work and decent working conditions must prevail over the free market. i often get the impression in this parliament that growth, productivity and competitiveness are of value in themselves and should not be called into question by anything. the human being, whether he is an eu citizen, a guest worker or a temporary worker, must not be degraded to an economic factor. it is worrying, even alarming, that according to a research report, around 50% of workers in the eu still have no prevention measures in place. women are particularly disadvantaged. while the overall number of accidents is declining, it is still increasing in areas where women are predominantly employed. the household is not recognised as a workplace at all, and the employees in family businesses, often women, are not taken into account. for those who think only economically, i must write this in the register: prevention is more humane and cheaper. i would ask you to calculate a little more precisely what the philosophy of maximising corporate profits and neglecting safety at work will ultimately cost us in terms of the national economy. more accidents with all their consequences cost much more than many, many prevention measures can ever cost. the human suffering of the victims and their families is hardly an argument for those who think only of their own pockets. if employers had to pay the costs themselves, this discussion of safety at work would probably be quite different. but since the costs of death, disability, illness and early retirement are largely borne by the general public, some employers have no interest in accepting precautionary measures and controls.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the debate for confirming what was said in the opening remarks, namely that mr maastálka's report was drawn up very carefully on the basis of a debate in which all those concerned were involved. i have to say, i was pleased with a few things. the first of these has already been mentioned in the debate, and there is no doubt that occupational safety and health is an important subject and arguably one of the most important to be dealt with. i think it is also good that there is no doubt about this and that the report has proved that reasonable rules are effective. when i mentioned the 30% reduction in fatal work accidents that this cruel balance sheet has brought about, that's two and a half thousand human lives. approximately two and a half thousand human lives every year, and for every one death, unfortunately, there are approximately two maimed, that is, permanently disabled people, that is, five thousand other human tragedies. i think it was also rightly pointed out that it is not entirely correct to use the concept of new and old states, because as from 1 may, firstly, they are member states and, secondly, the problems of safety and health at work are not geographically bounded and have many circumstances. also of great interest was a theme that suggested particular problems in health care, and it is certainly clear that health care is a field with a high workload and considerable risks. i also welcome the considerations that have been made about the different ways in which people are affected, and the considerations that have been made about the gendered perception of certain risks. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that the work that has been done is a good basis for formulating the next strategy. in this strategy we will have to respond in a comprehensive way, taking into account new risks or newly understood risks. i am sure that we will find the best ways of working with parliament to ensure that in the next report we can note an improvement in the situation, which is certainly not at the level we can be satisfied with now, and this is again the question that has been raised on all sides. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the commission's statement on the steel sector is on the agenda.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the steel industry is a regular item on the european parliament's agenda, despite the fact that the difficult period of major restructuring in this sector, at least in western europe, is over and despite the fact that the european steel industry is generally competitive. it is true that the companies in this sector continue to adapt to competition and to world market conditions. this is why we have seen restructuring in this sector on a regular basis. i would like to stress at the outset that the overall good health of the european steel industry today is certainly based on the ability of the companies and their workers, but also on the general ability to adapt to changing conditions. these abilities have been demonstrated in the past and i'm sure they will be demonstrated in the future. continuous adaptation of this sector, like all industrial and service sectors, is necessary and is the basis for future prosperity. but this fact does not allow us to forget that we have a collective responsibility to ensure that the process of change takes account of the men and women who work in the field. today's debate in parliament is again about the thyssen-krupp plant in terni. the future of the plant was discussed in parliament a year ago and it seemed that the negotiations would have a happy ending, the company had abandoned the plan to close the plant, which had been announced a few weeks earlier, or at least had postponed the plan. unfortunately, it now appears that thyssen-krupp is going to pursue its original intentions. it is not for the commission to assess whether such a decision is economically justified, nor to intervene directly in this process in any way. this is only possible if there is a breach of community rules. there's no evidence of that at this time. the commission has no information at its disposal to conclude that the company is in breach of the standards used in these circumstances. this is either the standards governing employment relations or standards in other areas. to our knowledge, no complaint or notification has been made in this regard. if that were to happen, the commission would of course take appropriate measures in the exercise of the powers conferred on it by the treaty. economically, we can regret the decision on the fate of this factory, this plant, and we must take into account the possible negative impact that decision will have, if it is confirmed, for hundreds of people and the prosperity of the region. we regret that the efforts made by the regional administration staff over more than a year - and i think that these efforts should be appreciated - did not prevent the termination of part of the activities at the terni plant, but this is a free decision of the company and as such must be respected. freedom must be respected, but also the responsibility of the undertaking, which is expressed in particular in the obligation to involve workers and their representatives fully and effectively in the decision-making process. several community directives and national legislation refer to it and the need to comply with it can only be confirmed in difficult circumstances such as these. the undertaking shall also be responsible for any social consequences of a partial cessation of production. the affected workers should probably be reassigned to other activities within the plant. in any event, in accordance with best practice, solutions other than dismissal should be found. where redundancies are necessary, the workers concerned should be provided for through adaptation measures. these principles for the management of restructuring were set out three years ago by the european social partners themselves, on the basis of a mandate from the commission. and that allows me to now address broader issues that go beyond the subject matter that we're not addressing today. the commission has just proposed a renewal of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. in order to achieve this ambitious objective, in the context of the major economic and social changes we are currently experiencing, we must successfully overcome the challenges of restructuring. the social agenda adopted by the commission two weeks ago also includes measures to help our businesses, our workers and all the other parties involved in the process of change to make the most of the potential benefits and to tackle the problematic aspects. in a few weeks' time, i intend to propose to the commission that it adopt a communication on a general strategy for the european union to manage restructuring and an ambitious programme to increase the potential for economic recovery and to take account of the difficulties involved. the keyword of this strategy will be forward-looking at all levels. the union has developed policies, programmes and instruments to facilitate the adaptation of businesses and workers to the developing world. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year. now these different axes need to be better coordinated, new forward-looking approaches need to be developed to anticipate further developments and individual actors need to be able to prepare for the future. i would like to emphasise that partnerships and social dialogue are of paramount importance in anticipating change at all levels, and in particular at sectoral, local and enterprise level. i will propose that the commission, through this communication, instruct the european social partners to carry out a second phase of consultation on two main topics, namely the role of the european works councils as change agents and the application of the general principles established by the social partners on restructuring management. there is also a need to strengthen the social dialogue at sectoral level, which must complement the community's industrial policy in this respect. forms of social dialogue need to be developed, and the main one is also in the case of anticipating and managing changes and restructuring collective bargaining. the social agenda envisages the creation of a non-binding optional community framework for the conclusion of transnational collective agreements, which would constitute a specifically adapted instrument for restructuring at european and even global level. these are some of the elements of this strategy which we would like to develop in partnership with the other community institutions. the social partners, public authorities at all levels and all those targeted by the strategy. i am aware that this type of policy initiative does not provide a direct and immediate response to those affected by the restructuring of the terni plant. the community's existing policies and instruments, which we intend to make even more effective in the future, can now be used to address the social consequences of decisions which, i hope, will still be possible to moderate in the context of a dialogue with all the parties concerned. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's europe, built on the foundations of the european coal and steel community, is in danger of seeing its origins denied in the heart of steel production in one of the founding countries. the decision by thyssen-krupp to close the magnetic steel production line first and then to freeze and free hundreds of workers at the terni site is not only a breach of all the agreements signed at the time of privatisation but also an economically pointless choice. the company has received attention from all the national and european institutions, which no other italian company in the sector has received. it is enough to mention public investment, starting with the structural funds linked to objective 2 - and on this side i see a possible intervention by the commission - not to mention the recent commitment by the italian government to guarantee the supply of electricity at economically advantageous conditions, until the construction of the necessary new power station. all the problems connected with the construction of the infrastructure necessary for the development of the site have also been solved by the italian government, not to mention the market for magnetic steel. the italian market is the most important, together with the german market. it is therefore incomprehensible why thyssen-krupp did not conclude the negotiations, which were now well under way, for the signing of the memorandum of understanding, which was intended to settle the dispute. the suspicion then arises that the negative results declared by the company are to be linked to choices which have only the purpose of intergroup transfers, with sale prices to the benefit of the related trading companies. the joint resolution we are voting on tomorrow is not only a gesture of solidarity but also a commitment by the european parliament to mobilise the commission and the member states to take action to prevent the steel industry from being reduced in size. we are asking the german government to intervene immediately at the top of thyssen, so that negotiations with the social partners can be resumed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the terni case is not just an italian case, mr president. this is a european case which should not be underestimated, it is emblematic for the whole steel industry. that is why all the institutions and all the political forces are called upon to formulate concrete proposals to protect the steel industry, employment and also research, because research is also carried out at the terni site. it is a very serious mistake not to react with firm condemnation to the refusal to listen to constructive proposals, a mistake which must be firmly condemned by all political forces. that is why we are once again calling on the german government to intervene immediately in the affairs of the top management of thyssen-krupp, because they are aware of the importance of the terni site and of the mistake made in the last few days.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know how to take the decision of thyssen-krupp to release 630 workers tomorrow morning, in addition to those already in the magnetic steel sector. i do not know whether to regard it as a lack of respect for this parliament which is discussing the matter or simply as an open admission of the contradictions which accompany the industrial policy of the company. the company sent a letter to the european parliament just a few days ago, i do not know how widely circulated, in which it states its willingness to defend its positions on magnetic steel and its willingness to invest in stainless steel. the choices of these hours contradict all this. the truth is that the decision to close the magnetic department is causing serious employment problems and has negative repercussions on the whole site and terni's territory. translated into employment terms, this decision may result in the loss of over 1500 workers between steelworks and factories. as if that were not enough, thyssen-krupp seems to no longer show any interest in enjoying the benefits in terms of infrastructure and energy costs, after having repeatedly requested them. which means objectively wanting to have my hands free: the commission has also been given the opportunity to phase out the production of stainless steel, which it considers should be its core business. of the site. it's like watching a show you've seen before. after acquiring the italian market, terni's production volumes gradually decreased, with the abandonment of magnetic steel production to invest elsewhere. finally, the terni steelworks, which had been downgraded to regional status and reduced to low production volumes - 800,000 tonnes per year, compared with a capacity of 2 million tonnes per year - and with high energy costs, was to be substantially dismantled. are we being malicious? then explain why stainless steel has been poured into a decades-old plant for three years, while a new plant that is only three years old is practically unused. i think it is now common knowledge that one kilogram of steel of any kind is not to be found, because the market shows clear indicators: a severe shortage of materials, rapidly rising prices, world production capacity completely saturated for a long period. it is quite clear that a disengagement from terni would cause a further increase in prices and would put the italian electromechanical industry, which absorbs 40% of european consumption, in serious difficulty. nor did the company consider alternative solutions, such as the promotion of a consortium of italian users similar to the one already existing in england, the supply of hot coils from germany as is already done for some production sites (such as genselkirchen and even competing sites, such as newport), the reactivation of an electric furnace already installed in terni, which requires only a modest investment for environmental reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. how do we get out of this? first of all, the company should be called upon to assume its responsibilities and to comply with the commitments and agreements it has entered into. secondly, we must resume the dialogue with the social partners and local authorities, which is currently lacking. we believe that social dialogue is essential to find solutions to the problems of the present day. thirdly, i would like to say to the commissioner in particular that we must give coherence to the lisbon strategy, which is to defend and expand the production base and not to close down sites in order to achieve competitiveness, which is the exact opposite! finally, i think it is absolutely necessary not only to give answers on the state of the reorganization processes at european level but also to give very serious and thorough consideration to the question of what industrial policy is needed in europe to deal with the problems of competitiveness. the sooner we do this, the better. the european parliament, by discussing these important issues, can make a tremendous contribution to the positive solution of the terni steelworks problem and give serious prospects to european industry.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is called upon to deal with a subject of great importance for the union's economy: the future prospects of the steel industry. it does so this evening, after a long debate between the political groups over the last few weeks, which has led to broad agreement on the text of the resolution we are to vote on tomorrow. it is a balanced text and one which can be widely shared. the sector in question must be seen in the context of achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy and of greater economic and social cohesion, since it employs a large number of workers in europe with high-quality and high-technology production, which are genuine models of reference in the world. thyssen-krupp, also through acciai speciali terni, has to this day been one of the world's leading producers of stainless and magnetic steel and at the forefront of research in this field. in its investment plan, the company had committed itself to making terni the european centre of excellence for magnetic steels, thanks also to the benefits in terms of infrastructure and energy costs granted by the italian government in june 2004. it should also be noted that additional investment from the european social fund has been used to develop the local system, infrastructure and vocational training. the commitments mentioned above would not be honoured if a change in company strategy were to take place, with the consequence - as we are now learning - of a progressive reduction in employment levels, by the initiation of procedures of a still vague nature. the point is that in the not too distant future thousands of jobs would be lost, and that would set a very dangerous precedent. the european commission is now called upon to defend its choices and to ensure that those receiving community funding keep the commitments it has made, including in relation to the location choices.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. the commission is not i fully agree with the content of the remarks made by those who spoke before me and i would like to make a few fundamental economic criticisms. the treatment of the thyssen-krupp workers in the poorly structured area of terni in umbria will show the value of the social beliefs that are being repeatedly belittled at eu level and that we solemnly enshrined in the treaty establishing the european constitution only a few weeks ago. they are also written into the lisbon process. what is the value of commitment to the goal of full employment, social cohesion, social responsibility based on ownership, social dialogue? is this all just dead letter? can you just ignore all this when the greed for profit comes over you again? it's not a crime. we must oppose it. we must oppose the ridicule of europe's social achievements. these achievements are essential for a civilized life and work on our continent. they are also essential to our own competitiveness and innovation. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal. the thyssen-krupp case is also a concrete example for us. the european structural and social funds have been used to a great extent. to what extent are the eu countries and the commission willing and able to insist that their conditions for granting subsidies to farms are actually respected? it is not only the workers and their families who are entitled to this, but also the taxpayers throughout europe, also in the sense of the viability of an important industrial sector which was the originator of the first european community, namely the montanunion. we in the green group will support the resolution.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are few in number in this chamber, although many are listening anxiously and with anguish. a small delegation from this working-class community arrived yesterday in strasbourg by its own means. in fact, although we are discussing a small italian town, terni, we are actually discussing the future of europe as a whole. terni, for those who don't know it, is a town in green umbria unlike any other. in the region of lake trasimeno, medieval towns, the mysticism of st. francis and renaissance painters, terni has been the city of steel and workers for 120 years. it has its own driving force in the steel industry and has been able, even during war, to defend and qualify, by innovating, its products through more than a century. there are no economic reasons for concentrating the production of magnetic sheet metal in france and germany: from the terni site, thyssen-krupp made a net profit of several million euros in 2004. only a few months ago, in june, the company had signed an agreement with the social partners, in the presence of the italian government, for the production relaunch of the terni site and the european parliament had voted in favour of this agreement. the owners of the company now want to disregard these agreements, announcing today that they will be laying off 600 workers from tomorrow, in addition to having already dismissed 370 employees in the magnetic steel sector. the letter she sent us meps is therefore contradicted by the facts, as well as by the contradictions in the text itself, and it has further convinced me of the need to vote, for reasons of substance and democracy, in favour of the joint resolution we have tabled. the situation is all the more tragic and unacceptable for the dignity of those european citizens and their families who have been mobilized for more than a year, and for the very rules of the european social dialogue, which is so much advocated by all the community institutions, first and foremost by the european commission, from which we expect concrete answers in this house, but which have not yet reached us. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would add that if all other avenues were obstinately closed, public intervention would be appropriate to guarantee the future that we would like to deny.
on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to stress once again that the terni ast incident cannot be relegated to a local incident, let alone a national incident, but concerns the whole of the european steel industry, a sector which is indispensable for our community industry. italy is doing its part at all levels to deal with the thyssen-krupp case. it is time for germany to send a positive signal and for the european union to take up its responsibilities. we know that terni's case is not the first, nor the only one. there is a long list of companies which, after having made substantial profits thanks to the sacrifice, commitment and professionalism of their workers, prefer to relocate, perhaps to non-eu territories, unconditionally blaming the employment and social emergency on the member states. as some of my colleagues have already said, today, while thyssen-krupp was reassuring us with a separate letter, it was also announcing the so-called 'release' of 630 workers this morning. how can we not call this approach arrogant? this shows that thyssen-krupp has no intention of taking account of what parliament is about to vote on tomorrow. that is why we have a duty today to be concrete, first of all to the workers and their families, and we therefore ask the commission for specific commitments: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. but above all we ask the commission not to further evade the main challenge for the european economy, on which the future of the european economic system is at stake, namely the emergency of 'delocalization'. the european union is practically at year zero in this respect, when it is essential to intervene with a strategy capable of limiting and regulating relocations, both within europe and outside the eu, also to ensure growth and employment, competitiveness and innovation: in short, to achieve the main objectives of the lisbon agenda. this parliament, which has the specific duty of representing the rights and expectations of the european citizens, must have the courage to submit to the commission a strong and unified document which does not overlook the crucial question of relocations, on which the future of the european economy is at stake. that is why we ask you to vote for our amendment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the hasty e-mail from thyssen-krupp, full of promises, sent to the european parliament this afternoon in anticipation of this debate, does not convince us at all. it's time for action, not words. behind the announced layoffs of hundreds of workers, there is the drama of hundreds of families who see an uncertain and worse future on the horizon. i have recently held a political meeting of the new psi at the steelworks in terni, and i have seen clearly that terni and umbria as a whole are united and determined to wage a courageous and hard struggle, not only to defend their own productive and economic environment but above all to protect the dignity of the local community. in general, the community institutions cannot remain silent at this stage, since massive divestments and the relocation of valuable production to non-european countries are disrupting the overall european productive capacity. moreover, in this specific case, it should be noted that thyssen-krupp received funds and tax benefits from the union when it decided to buy the terni factory, with the guarantee of maintaining its activities in italy and safeguarding its jobs. all these commitments have been ignored in favour of eastern scenarios, in relation to which we will have to ask ourselves what they are and how trade union rights and guarantees will be respected. in the 1950s, schuman launched the high authority for coal and steel, laying the foundations and the premises for an ambitious and global path of unification, not just economic. today, when this complex political project has made enormous progress, we must not allow this strategic sector to be dismantled by our silence. the institutional actors, first of all the government, the region of umbria, the province and the municipality of terni, must agree on a common strategy with the social partners, who must be more involved in the decision-making processes, and then they must be confronted in a close, frank and decisive way with thyssen. the company must take responsibility for its actions and abandon the confused and somewhat instrumental defensive tactics. it is also clear that the granting of any additional public resources must be subject to agreements, this time precise and shared, on employment and local development and investments to modernise production. mr commissioner, it is a political duty to speak out and to seek immediate and concrete solutions in this direction in order to preserve and defend a part of our economic network. but it is also a moral duty towards the hundreds of workers, fathers and mothers of families who, with eyes full of hope, never resigned, have been guarding the gates of their steelworks for months. they have a clear message from this house: "stay strong in claiming the right to your future and that of your children. we, once so united, are at your side".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this house we are repeating concepts relating to a situation which is unfortunately a paradigmatic example - i would say a school example - of many other industrial situations which characterize our continent. europe can and must respond differently. if we base our assessments only on the crude and bitter reasons, which exist - they are the reasons of numbers, which can seem almost objective and which are still immaterial - we would not understand the problem, nor would we be able to analyse it, because the words we hear are those of relocation, globalisation, compatibility. it is all part of the paradigm of this particular multinational company but also of many other multinational companies which, throughout their history, have often received substantial aid from national governments and considerable incentives also from the european community and then, in the classic logic of the socialization of losses and the privatization of profits, continue to go forward in this direction insensitive to guarantees and rights. the europe we want and should build should be different, that is, a europe in which work in the abstract is of course important but people in the flesh are also important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the road we are taking in this case, which is truly a paradigm, leaves us with a deep bitterness in our mouths, because this type of europe is not the europe we would like to build. when commissioner špidla talks about social dialogue, we want to go along with him. but then we find that, while the european parliament is preparing, fortunately in a united manner, to converge towards a vote which will hold thyssen-krupp accountable, the company in question, just this morning - just before it is to be subjected to an assessment by freely elected parliamentarians on our continent - is releasing over 600 people! is this the social dialogue? is this the europe we want? i think that the opposition of parliament should be given greater weight and the will of the representatives of the people should be given real weight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning it was announced that 600 more workers had been released from thyssen-krupp. social alarm is becoming more and more serious as it affects the economy of a city, a territory and thousands of families. the problem of terni, commissioner, is the problem of italian and european industry. the resolution we have signed is not only a sign of solidarity with the workers and the institutions who are also here tonight and with the workers themselves, but also a commitment by the european parliament to rethink the major industrial policy strategies. europe, within the framework of the lisbon strategy and the stability pact, must rethink its policy to stem the distorting effects of globalisation, which must be reconsidered. in the name of globalisation and unbridled competition we cannot dismantle social protection, workers' rights and environmental safeguards. public intervention must be the driving force behind innovation, research and industrial conversion based on a new competitiveness, which does not, however, lead to the deindustrialization of italy and europe. the debate on the financial perspective which is taking place these days raises the question of how much money should be allocated to investment to boost economic development and create new jobs. the question must also be asked, commissioner, what control and evaluation mechanisms should be introduced to verify and ensure that industrial plans which provide for public funding can and should protect work. ladies and gentlemen, there are many open questions. the terni case is, in many ways, the tip of an iceberg. we cannot afford to lose this challenge, the real challenge for italian and european industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers have explained the situation very well and what needs to be done to get out of this dramatic situation. i bite my tongue and do not repeat some of the requests concerning the reach regulation, which will come into force in eleven years' time, threatening the competitiveness of italian and european industry, which i believe is subject to other competitive stimuli that are much closer together. i would like to refer to my long experience in trade union work, as you have, to make two comments. the first is this: we were discussing the terni case and the steel industry and the wider crisis in the european steel industry exactly one year ago, on 10 february 2004. on that very day, we received news that the dispute was being resolved at the ministerial level and that negotiations were being launched which were to end in june with the agreement which, today, thyssen-krupp has once again scrapped. why was that agreement possible? i believe it for one reason: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the extraordinary mobilization of the workers and citizens of terni and umbria, as mentioned earlier, was the protagonist of this political process. the factory in terni is not just a factory, it's an integral part of the city! the same situation is repeating itself today. today, as then, it is not only a professional heritage, a productive capacity, a tradition that is being offended: you're insulting the dignity of an entire citizenry! it is from this consideration that we must start to renew a strong unit which will allow thyssen-krupp to be isolated again. second observation that comes to me from that experience: why did thyssen-krupp make two seemingly contradictory moves today? he sent us a letter detailing the problems and at the same time he released or threatened to release 600 other workers, on more or less plausible grounds. i think the company feels that it is in danger of being isolated again from this house. that is why the agenda which we are about to vote on tomorrow is very important. i very much appreciated your speech, mr commissioner, and the signals you sent, despite the limited powers of the commission, of which we are fully aware. however, the commission can perhaps do something on the political level, even at the highest level, as it did last year, and make a significant contribution to the isolation of thyssen-krupp.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the thyssen-krupp affair in terni is a very dangerous signal for the whole of the european steel industry and its industry. the unanimous support for the resolution shows not a rhetorical and isolated concern but a choral and international awareness of the gravity of the situation. a reassuring letter that was sent to all members yesterday, as has already been mentioned, reiterates that there will be no changes in employment. this, of course, does not convince us; we are even more concerned about the news of the 600 workers who have been released. the letter looks like i don't know if you can translate the latin saying an "exusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta". the strong initiatives of the italian government in support of the terni steelworks and the attention of all the institutions have been of little avail. the suspicion that thyssen-krupp is succumbing to the logic of asian competition, particularly chinese competition, is therefore now a certainty. the problem is not just that, which is already very serious, of the redundancies that will take place in terni. the problem is all the more serious because a real strategy of relocation or, let us be frank, demobilization is being set up, after years of support which has produced huge profits. commissioner, i expected more from your report. it seemed to me more like a narrative of the facts than a strong statement on the industrial policies of europe. we therefore call for this issue to be tackled strategically by the european commission, which has the political strength and weight to deal with it, so that it can take on the serious responsibilities of any silence which would turn into a deafening failure of the european economy.
i ask my colleagues to allow me a brief respite from the formal duties of the office i currently hold, to express on a personal and political level my full and unqualified support for the reasons, the content and the objectives of the joint resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. i have listened with interest to a discussion that touches on a particularly sensitive subject. it is quite clear that the european steel industry is a very important part of our economy and in a way part of the european identity. it is also clear that the lisbon strategy envisages an industrial policy and that one of the strategic decisions contained in this document is to support european industry, to enable it to stabilise and develop, because industry is an important part of our european civilisation. ladies and gentlemen, the steel industry in europe has undergone very significant restructuring and is competitive. it is quite clear that there will be partial restructuring, and that this restructuring must be accompanied by appropriate social measures. as regards the role of the commission, i must say that in this case its powers are limited, or more precisely that the commission does not have the power to intervene against the management of thyssen-krupp and to persuade it and to induce it to change its decision. as regards the relocation of a factory or part of the production in that factory to the federal republic of germany, it is generally accepted that within the european union there is a free choice of where the production of goods and the provision of services will be located. it is based on the concept of the internal market and thus sets out the contracts we have agreed to. however, it is clear that any such restructuring is accompanied by social problems and difficulties, and therefore we need public policies to enable these sectors, regions and workers to make the necessary adjustments to ensure an adequate level of protection. this is also one of the objectives of the commission communication which i intend to present as soon as possible in the next term on restructuring and employment. i would like to confirm the importance of social dialogue in the anticipation and management of restructuring, and therefore this communication, which i have mentioned, will constitute the second phase of the consultation of the european social partners on both restructuring issues and the european works councils. i firmly believe that the social partners will accept this call and will start negotiations aimed at establishing mechanisms for the use and monitoring of the reference principles for restructuring and exploiting the possibilities of the european works councils as agents of change within companies. as regards the possible community aid received by thyssen in italy, the commission has approached the competent italian authorities to resolve this issue and we now await their response. however, if it were confirmed that such aid had been received and that the conditions attached to it had not been complied with, the commission would naturally insist that the competent italian authorities take appropriate measures. i would remind you that under the current framework, the structural funds cannot continue to provide assistance if the operation in question has undergone a substantial change, for example if it has been relocated within five years of the decision to allocate funds. i would also point out that for the next period, 2007 to 2013, the commission proposes to increase this guarantee to seven years, to provide that in the event of any breach of this rule, the aid received must be recovered, to provide that any company which has once failed to comply with this condition is prohibited from granting any aid in the future. ladies and gentlemen, a whole series of questions have been raised, such as the framework programme, and it is quite clear that the steel industry requires an innovative effort and that it is a source of extraordinary innovation, because to master the metallurgical processes is in any case a high technology, and it will certainly be given a place in the framework programme. as for the reach directive, it is under debate. i think that there is no doubt that this directive needs to be considered, but it is also clear that this directive must be balanced and must pursue its objectives. as far as kyoto is concerned, in any case, the implementation of the kyoto protocol is a success for the european union and undoubtedly a major success from a global perspective for the stability of our world as a whole. the problem of emissions trading is one which we started a few days ago and it will certainly be very important to evaluate all the results and to take a position on processes which may at some moments have paradoxical characteristics and unintended side effects. ladies and gentlemen, the steel industry deserves our attention and the restructuring that is part of modern life requires a comprehensive european policy, the involvement of the social partners and the will to face these challenges. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to acknowledge, as i have done, the efforts of the italian authorities. i think it's still possible to moderate the development in a partial way, and we'll respond to its development.
at the end of the debate i would like to say that i have received three motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you, and in particular the committee on industry, research and energy, for this opportunity to discuss in plenary the issue of doubling the research budget. i start by saying how happy i am that mr locatelli's report on the future of european research received almost unanimous support from the itre committee on monday. this report, which i understand will be voted on in the march part-session, gives us an excellent grounding in preparing the formal commission proposal for the new framework programme. i would particularly like to thank two members of the committee, mr chichester and mr locatelli. allow me first to underline that today's discussion is not just important for research. it is a debate about nothing less than our credibility to reach the lisbon objectives, and is a crucial debate for both our institutions only a few weeks before europe hopefully agrees on the financial means for the next decade. the discussion about the new financial perspectives is a moment of truth and the question of sufficient funding for european research is an essential part of it. this is because research is about knowledge, and knowledge is truly a european strength in global competition. let me explain. some of our trading partners are competing with primary resources, which we do not have. some compete with cheap labour, which we do not want. some compete on the back of the environment, which we cannot accept. the only way for european enterprise to build sustainable leadership is to exploit the knowledge triangle fully: the creation, transmission and use of knowledge through research, education, training and of course innovation. my strong conviction is that european enterprises will only achieve competitiveness and leadership on global markets if we rapidly put europe in the lead as an economy and as a knowledge society. we are strong in knowledge, but we can become even stronger if we pool our efforts in an intelligent way; if we give full emphasis to excellence; and if we use the full research potential throughout the eu - old, new and future. this is what i want the next research programme to stand for. knowledge does not only mean more competitive businesses. it also brings continuous progress to society: progress in fields such as health; preservation of the environment; and sustainable energy supply. all of these rest largely on the progress of knowledge. in view of this, the questions you raised are indeed the right ones. first, will the commission fight for the doubling of the research budget? the answer is yes. in february 2004, when launching the debate on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged union, the commission emphasised the role research will play in building our common future and consequently proposed the doubling of the budget. this was reaffirmed in the commission's communication on the financial perspectives last july and president barroso confirmed the approach to this house last december, when he endorsed the financial perspective that had been proposed by the prodi commission. the last confirmation came in the proposal of the lisbon mid-term review. it spells out clearly the importance of investment in research and development. on behalf of the european commission, i can therefore confirm not only our strong commitment to research, but also that we will do everything to achieve the doubling of the research budget. second, does this doubling take account of the programme's duration, inflation, enlargement and the need to support new actions? i am very grateful for these questions. it is good that we clarify these fully justified issues. fp7 will be the principal financial tool for realising the ambitious objective of driving productivity growth and ensuring competitiveness through knowledge. when i speak about the doubling of funds i am talking about doubling the budget of fp7. this figure does not include related community programmes such as mr gunther verheugen's programme for competitiveness and innovation. our proposal will not simply be a doubling of the initial fp6 budget. it will be built on the basis of the yearly amount to be spent on research during the period 2007-2013 compared to the yearly estimated amount for fp6, and revised following accession. this means doubling on a yearly basis regardless of the duration of fp7. moreover, in the financial perspectives these amounts will be adjusted for inflation according to our general calculation methods. enlargement is one particular issue. in the area of research, enlargement was a reality long before the accession treaty was signed. the current candidate countries also participate in the framework programme. i could, therefore, answer this question by saying that it is true that enlargement has been taken into account, but i would have to add immediately that it is not only in the budgetary figures that enlargement needs to be taken into account. i want this programme to be built on excellence, because i know this is also a strength of the new member states. however in addition, i want this programme to be an enabling one that allows the use of the full research potential in the new member states and creates an active and effective link with the structural funds. additional new areas of research are included and are part of the justification for doubling the funds. thirdly, will the fp7 proposal cover basic research, space research and security research? to be brief, our fp7 proposal will be all inclusive, i.e. there will be no mechanisms outside the framework programme. let me make an important addition here. parliament has highlighted that the complementary objectives of continued reinforcement of existing eu research support, on the one hand, and of support to new areas of research that are of interest to the eu, on the other, require adequate funding. in other words, it would not be possible to strengthen existing activities in an efficient way and, at the same time, introduce widely supported new activities, such as the european research council and technology initiatives, if the research budget was not doubled. doubling will enable us to take a decisive step forward in our overall research policy and in continuing support for the european research area. agreement on the substance of future research activities necessarily implies agreement on adequate funding for these activities. fourthly, how will the commission try to influence the debate on the financial perspectives to achieve the doubling of research funds? in order to underpin the debate on the financial perspectives, the commission will present its proposal for fp7 on 6 april. this will help parliament to give its preliminary reactions to the council that your rapporteur, mr borg is planning to present during the may part-session. it will also allow the ministries for research and science to have an initial discussion at the competitiveness council on 18 april. the commission proposal will provide sound justification for doubling the budget for fp7, based on a detailed and thorough assessment of the impact of the research and development instruments on investment in growth and jobs. i will list the two main reasons for doubling the funding. the first - and, for me, the most important set of reasons - is the need for the european union to be credible in delivering the renewed lisbon agenda on growth and jobs. this includes the need to deliver results on the 3% gdp target for research and development that was mutually agreed in barcelona. doubling the funding is one of the crucial steps towards a more growth-oriented european union budget. the second set of reasons is more specific to research and development spending. firstly, we need high public spending on research and development because it is an important source of r&d investment and for its strong leverage effect on private investments in research and development in the future. secondly, we need more r&d funding at eu level because of the strong added value of european research funding through the critical mass of resources, sharing of knowledge and facilities, strengthening excellence through close cooperation, competition at european level, the coordination of national activities and support for european union policies. let me add to that the fact that we are currently rejecting an unacceptable number of excellent proposals purely because of the lack of financial resources. in addition, there is the need and willingness to fund new category and activity initiatives which demonstrate high value added impact at eu level without, however, endangering existing ones. finally, we should not forget the very simple fact that the costs of research itself are also growing. your fifth question was whether the duration of fp7 should be synchronised with the financial perspectives to ensure a better coordination of planning activities? reaching the goals that i have described will require a long-term view and commitment. that is why the commission will propose that the duration of fp7 should be the same overall as the next financial perspective for 2007-13. we should take stock mid-way through the programme to ensure that fp7 continues to respond to the needs faced by the european economy and citizens. by doing so we will introduce more stability on the one hand, and more flexibility on the other. both factors are needed. i should also like to take this opportunity to underline the exemplary execution rates in the research budget. the current execution rates are close to 100%. we have proved in the past that we can effectively manage constantly increased fp budgets. we are aware that the challenge to managing the doubling of the funds is demanding, but we are determined to provide proper answers. simplification and rationalisation of procedures are greatly needed. administration and modernised management, including externalisation, will provide answers to this challenge. the proposals in the field of research are at the core of the delivery of the new lisbon agenda. that is the only way we can succeed. the time for delivery is now. building a knowledge society is probably the best, and perhaps only, way to sustain the european social model without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection. the first and foremost policy priority for the union is thus to strongly support the three sides of the knowledge triangle - research, education and innovation - and to ensure that the triangle operates in the most favourable framework conditions. the change in the structure of the european budget in favour of more growth and competitive oriented expenses in the direction proposed by the commission is thus crucial. this structural change to the european budget should also be followed by the member states in their budgets. the doubling of funds in the european budget should not be seen as compensation for the reduction of member states' efforts. on the contrary, it should be an example followed by the member states. their effort is necessary. if we do not make the effort now, we will have to make it later; but it will be more difficult later and it could even be too late. i intend to do my best to achieve the vision i have described because i believe it is the right one. we can bring it to life by working together. that is why i ask for your support. i trust that i will receive it, for the sake of the european model of life and for the sake of europe's future. (applause)
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for research funding to be doubled compared to the sixth framework programme, without asking whether the latter is an appropriate benchmark. at the time of its creation, the need to give new impetus to the european union's competitiveness was not yet so acute, enlargement was not yet so massive and important, international competition was not yet so strong, and a knowledge-based strategy such as that of lisbon had not yet been formulated. all this has now happened and, moreover, very little has been done in relation to the lisbon objectives. we must therefore make up for lost time, since half the time has already elapsed. every effort must be made to start with research, which is the food of all progress. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the community's research and technological development programmes. the european research council, new research proposals and technology platforms. the european research council is born out of the recognition that basic research has now reached a dimension that transcends the member states and must be addressed at union level and in the lisbon logic. it is a first nucleus around which to build a policy of development and competitiveness, which will then be expressed in technological platforms. these will need to have resources mainly from enterprises, but also from public institutions, member states, regions and local authorities to organise research of general interest and to help enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to meet the research requirements for their competitiveness. these are strong and decisive innovations to give new impetus to our companies. we must be in the new sectors, take innovative initiatives and give conventional production a new competitive capacity if we do not want to be passive spectators of a complete deindustrialization of europe. we are consistent and invest in research which, even when not strictly targeted, has a very high return potential. perhaps doubling will not be enough, but in any case we cannot skimp on these resources. the commission can count on parliament's support in supporting this challenge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication on the guidelines for the seventh framework programme and its proposals for the financial perspective speak in general terms of doubling the funds. this statement needs to be substantiated, which you, commissioner, have already done in part. so, in addition to the issues of enlargement and the new areas of activity, namely space and research, i would remind you that the constitutional treaty confers new powers on the union in the field of research. i would also like to mention the establishment of the european research council, a new instrument which we imagine will absorb between 10 and 15 per cent of the total resources of the seventh framework programme. you, commissioner, are already aware of the outcome of the vote by the itre committee on the guidelines for the seventh framework programme. it calls for additional funding within the seventh framework programme for the european research council. it is also said that doubling is the minimum necessary if we are to really give substance to the european research area and pursue the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i ask you: does the commission agree that the european research council should be given additional funding? and speaking of doubling, what does doubling mean? we must find a criterion and i propose as a criterion the impact, that is to say the percentage of the resources of the framework programme in the gross domestic product of the union. that's the percentage you need to double! i ask you: do you agree with this view of doubling? we also know that there is a great deal of discussion among the member states at this stage of preparing the financial perspective, because some of them want to reduce their contribution to the budget of the european union to 1%. this reduction is likely to have a negative impact on the research budget. do you agree to wage a determined battle to counter this position on the part of the less generous member states? and if we do come to this reduction, are you still in agreement with the request for a doubling of the funds? the seventh framework programme must not be a mere new framework programme but must mark a turning point, consistent with the new powers of the union, if we are to really create a new european research area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning john paul ii was admitted to a hospital in rome. before we begin the debate on the defence of human rights, i think it would be appropriate, if you agree, to send a message of solidarity and closeness from this parliament to a great defender of human rights, a peacemaker, a great european, to whom all european citizens, believers and non-believers alike, are bound. i think that this could be an important signal from the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i approve and support the resolutions on the unacceptable domestic policy, the repression of civil liberties and the systematic violations of human rights by king gyanendra of nepal. i would therefore ask that the same effort be made in resolutions and, above all, in strong political and economic pressure on china, which has oppressed the tibetan people for decades. the aim of parliament and the other institutions must be to promote the defence and culture of tibet, and not just by denouncing the systematic genocide of its people over more than a decade. we must be inspired by principles such as non-violence, democracy, tolerance, solidarity, dialogue, respect and justice in a total way, without choosing, as is often the case, more convenient or more convenient battles in defence of the self-determination of peoples. this principle knows no latitude or longitude, and it must never be subject to the impositions of economics, or worse, finance on politics. these initiatives are the best propaganda tool for the principles of freedom and self-determination. principles that are transversal to parties and institutions.
the commitment of my predecessor and the motion for a resolution which has the support of all the political groups in this parliament, with the reasons given, demonstrate the urgent need for action. we in the rich countries here have no idea what is happening in many african countries. after centuries of colonial exploitation, many countries have suffered the worst forms of tyranny, including liberia under charles taylor, immediately after achieving so-called freedom. the catalogue of crimes for which charles taylor was convicted by a special court in sierra leone in 2003 cannot leave us indifferent. we must do everything in our power to bring to justice this criminal who, from his exile, continues to destabilize liberia and the neighbouring countries. i support all the initiatives that have been called for here. but i also have to say with concern that the un, the un security council, all of us, still do not have anywhere near the authority that would be most urgently needed for world peace. international law, human rights, demand that all people of good will overcome their indifference and that all instruments are used to find more just and peaceful solutions. i thank all those who have worked on this resolution.
mr president, we too are in full agreement with this proposal, provided that the subject is not exhausted in 30 minutes.
mr president, i would just like to make it clear that our request in relation to the discussion on software patents was a request for a statement not only to the commission but also to the council.
mr president, i am very sorry, but i do not understand what we are voting on at the moment. are we voting on replacing the debate on the services directive with the debate on the software patents directive?
mr president, you have honoured the name and history of nicola calipari, a high-ranking official of the italian state and of the sissi, who was in baghdad for the fourth time with the task of snatching a hostage from the hands of armed terrorist gangs, killers of iraqis. i thank you for that, but i would also say that perhaps it is time that the european parliament did not inadvertently sin in racism. we consider the death of a westerner to be a world event, but we remain silent while iraqis and iraqis continue to be killed in the wake of saddam's ideology and other similar ideas, just as we have remained silent for the last 50 years over the katyn graves. this is a disgrace!
mr president, you mentioned the death of nicola calipari in your opening remarks, but i would say the murder of nicola calipari. a few minutes ago a statement was published by president barroso, who called the incident an unfortunate accident. i do not know whether the commission has any information, which has not yet been made public, which would allow it to say that this was an unfortunate accident and not something more serious. about an hour ago cnn reported, citing pentagon sources, that the conclusion of the us commission of inquiry would be that it was simply a misunderstanding between the italian authorities and the us authorities about the reporting of the cars' passage. i would like to join the reporters without borders call for the establishment of a united nations commission of inquiry and i ask the commission and the council to join this call. i would also ask that this issue be discussed within the european union in the context of transatlantic relations, since we as the european union have a very specific responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am grateful to mr seppänen for the detailed work he has enabled us to do. i also thank commissioner piebalgs for his presence. i would like to stress the importance of the directive on the completion of the internal gas market. this directive, which was adopted last year, sets out fair and detailed rules for third party access to member states' gas transmission networks, taking into account the specificities of national and regional markets. as already mentioned, the directive is similar to the directive on access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity. it is important to remember that the proposal is based on voluntary agreements, concluded within the european gas regulatory forum, and will become binding through this regulation. the main changes introduced by the council concern the guidelines referred to in article 9, which have been reduced in scope, the exclusion of the commission's power to adopt new guidelines through the committee procedure and the power for the commission to amend the guidelines set out in the annexes. the guidelines concern third party access services, the principles of capacity allocation mechanisms, congestion management procedures and transparency requirements. the council also introduced a new paragraph to article 9 clarifying the difference between national gas networks, which must be reflected in the guidelines, their application and future amendments. i would also like to point out that the council has postponed the date of entry into force of the regulation from 1 july 2005 to 1 july 2006, with the exception of article 9 (2), which will enter into force six months later. on behalf of my group i would like to express my satisfaction with the agreement reached with the council, although i would have preferred that the council and commission regulation also took into account the need to regulate access to storage facilities. in this very cold period, 10 per cent of the stocks have been used up in italy, so i think it is appropriate to mention this aspect as well as the buffer effect of storage prices. i am counting on the commission's readiness to regulate this matter as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the commissioner's statements, which i think are clear. however, the answer did not seem to me to be adequate to the question that was put. the request has its own strength, validity and consistency. we have some serious problems in europe, which you are well aware of. the first concerns the fact that the european union is consuming more and more energy and importing more and more energy products, the second concerns the relationship between energy development and the environment, particularly after the implementation of the kyoto protocol, and the third concerns the livability of our cities in terms of energy pollution. these factors are increasingly making it necessary to think about the energy of the future, in particular renewable energy sources, and to constantly search for alternative energy sources. i believe that by promoting renewable energy sources, we can contribute to the objectives of general energy policy, security of supply and competitiveness, as well as to improving and strengthening environmental protection and sustainable development. there is a general awareness and belief that to achieve this, coherent policy choices are needed, but also substantial public and private resources. in this particular case, i think it is only natural to ask economic operators, such as oil companies, which have been able to benefit from special market conditions and make a certain amount of profit, to participate with others, with adequate funding, in plans and projects relating to alternative renewable energy sources. this is a serious indication not of the restriction on the freedom of enterprises to make profits, which must be left unchanged, but of what is commonly called 'corporate social responsibility'. among the possible measures already introduced in the debate, i consider extremely important the intervention in the case of the metropolises and large cities, investing resources to repair them from an energy and environmental point of view. it is necessary to give a clear signal of change and in this respect the contribution of everyone, including the oil companies, is absolutely necessary. this would be a useful answer which the commission can give to all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is ten years since the beijing conference of the united nations, which established women's rights in its platform. in beijing, it was said that women's rights are human rights. there is certainly no going back from that, although for some years now the most conservative countries in the world have been trying. the united states in particular did so last week during the work of the united nations commission on women's rights. the attempt was stopped mainly thanks to the european delegation, and in particular thanks to the intelligent and valuable work of the luxembourg minister, mrs jacob, who led our delegation and whom i thank very much. beijing is definitely a no-go, but saying so is not enough. the implementation of the platform must be accelerated. one of the issues addressed is that of political power still firmly in the hands of men. women still represent only 15 per cent of parliamentarians worldwide and only 15 countries out of some 200 have reached what is termed the "critical mass of 30 per cent". when women's presence in organisations reaches critical mass, it is easier to consider women's views and experiences, to prioritise women's concerns and to make action possible. of the 15 countries i mentioned earlier, eight are in europe, i.e. less than a third of the 25 countries that make up the union. it is a question of will, commitment and action to make these eight countries twenty-five - and that is what we are asking the commission and the council to do - and above all it is a question of the conviction that the increase in the representation of women in parliaments is in the interests of both men and women. spain, with its government composed equally of men and women, is the example to follow. spain, led by the socialist zapatero, shows that equal democracy is possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mrs figueiredo, you are to be congratulated. they have collected a great many arguments and have written a condensed report. in addition to the constant talk about competition, economic growth, freedom of capital, services, goods, etc., it is good that europe, which is so often over-strained as a christian west, is distancing itself from neo-capitalism and putting the environment, the environment and the future in the centre. we cannot remain indifferent to the fact that one in seven citizens in the whole of rich europe is threatened by poverty. we cannot continue to increase the working week and working life when we know that there are some 20 million people in the eu, the majority of whom are women, who are unemployed. work and wages should also be shared more equally. we cannot ignore the fact that corporations simply move their often subsidized enterprises to the places where they find the most favourable conditions - salaries, taxes, social charges, environmental regulations, controls, etc. - and where they can make the greatest profits. businesses also have a social responsibility. justice is the prerequisite for social peace. solidarity is the best network against poverty and social exclusion. social security contributions are often like charity, a humiliation to the recipient, especially if he is unjustly in need. i hope that the report will be adopted by a large majority here, so that the council and the commission can address as many of the issues raised as possible. we cannot remain idle while the rich few in europe are getting richer and the number of the poor is increasing. it needs a reversal of momentum. this report provides a lot of impetus in the right direction. i would also like to thank commissioner špidla for his understanding of social policy and for his commitment. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european social model does not come from nothing or by chance, but from our economic history. this model has been made possible by a social and market economy based economically on productivity and efficiency and therefore on the winning system of small and mediumsized enterprises, which we must strive to revive. the tragedy of unemployment cannot be overcome by demagogy and empty, virtuosic words in favour of the poor and the dispossessed of the world. if we have imported people who are not useful for our economic development because they are not qualified, we have made a serious political mistake and we must recognize it. otherwise, the excessive presence of immigrants in europe, with no prospects of work, will provoke a war between the poor and will fuel the racism created by those who wanted this type of immigration. it is time to think before we talk about immigrant labour rights and forget about our unemployed. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i approve of mrs figueiredo's report, but i think it is necessary to point out a contradiction. recital l, after noting the worrying situation of unemployment in the union, argues that immigration is needed to deal with the direct implications for the current labour market. i don't agree with that at all. i think instead that we need more stability and less interim, more certainty and continuity in working life and less public support for large companies, especially multinational companies, which benefit from tax incentives and rebates from the european union and its member states, often paying back by relocating and by fraud against savers. the fifth point, after recital m, rightly refers to participatory democracy. in this sense, the objective of direct participation in the fate of the enterprise should be pursued, as stated in the never-used article 46 of the constitution of the italian republic - which is also included in the labour charter of the italian social republic - which recognizes the right of workers to participate in the management of enterprises in the manner and within the limits established by law. this is an example of a regulatory instrument which, if inserted in the european constitution and then applied, would make more acceptable what is instead a tentacular instrument of coercion of the destinies of the peoples of europe, or at least would raise its social value.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the revision of the non-proliferation treaty and on nuclear weapons in north korea and iran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear proliferation in north korea is extremely worrying. we are dealing with a country which has concealed from the international community the manufacture of nuclear bombs. it is therefore necessary to dismantle these arsenals and north korea must immediately sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and allow the iaea inspectors in vienna to carry out the appropriate checks. however, we believe that the only possible way forward in that region is through diplomacy. it is necessary for north korea to return to the negotiating table in the six-party talks with the united states, south korea, japan, russia and china. in this context, washington's bellicose statements are not helping. instead of waving weapons, as the bush administration has recently done, i believe north korea should be offered a comprehensive political-diplomatic agreement in exchange for control of its nuclear arsenal. i also believe that when it comes to nuclear weapons, we cannot help but wonder who can throw the first stone. we cannot help but point out, for example, that it was recently discovered in italy that nuclear weapons belonging to the united states are stored in some nato bases on italian territory, unbeknownst to the residents of the area. i therefore believe that the question of nuclear disarmament concerns everyone, not just the two countries we are discussing now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, the possibility that reactionary and in many respects obscurantist regimes, such as those of iran and north korea, may acquire nuclear weapons must be avoided. the concern is heightened by the risk of plutonium being stolen by terrorist groups, which are unfortunately becoming more active. in 1945 the atom bomb leveled two japanese cities, with effects that still affect the lives of millions of citizens and the surrounding environment. in 2005, the mayors of hiroshima and nagasaki, the two cities that were affected 60 years ago, launched an international campaign for nuclear disarmament, through the project vision 2020 program, which aims to eliminate all nuclear weapons within 15 years. europe, which has an interest in promoting international security and strategic stability, must make its voice heard in the international community by clearly indicating the path to be followed for a gradual reduction in the operation of nuclear munitions and for a progressive disarmament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the end of the cold war the problem of nuclear proliferation seemed to have disappeared, but today it is back on the agenda. the north korean government's declaration of nuclear weapons rightly raises great concern in what is the most nuclear-armed area in the world. at the same time, a nuclear iran would destabilize the middle east, creating huge security problems at the doorstep of europe. the european security strategy rightly considers the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction to be the second greatest global threat after international terrorism. it is also clear that, in the case of rogue states, failed states or inadequate surveillance, the two problems are closely linked. we cannot meet this challenge alone. international coordination is needed to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to increase police control and legal means of verification, taking up the seven points raised by elbaradei, among which i would mention the five-year moratorium on new installations, the unequivocal commitment to the disarmament of the five states officially recognised as having nuclear weapons and the objective of a 'nuclear-free zone' in the middle east. the relationship between the european union and the united states is central to effectively combating nuclear proliferation. europe and the united states are complementary. in the immediate future, the common transatlantic objective must be to block iranian activities and to ensure the success of the annual npt review conference.
president of the council. mr president, it is certain that a world without nuclear weapons, a wish claimed by some but shared by all of us, is an ideal vision. unfortunately, things are moving in the opposite direction. as mr wiersma and mr brok have said, we are in danger of entering a phase of new nuclear proliferation, a new nuclear arms race in extremely fragile regions where proliferation may one day lead to use. it is therefore extremely important today to ensure that the european union, together with all its partners, exercises the necessary pressure on those who believe that nuclear weapons give them superior power. we must send a clear signal, whether to north korea or to iran, that the development of nuclear weapons does not pay off, that the international community cannot tolerate such a development. i agree with those who say that, as far as iran is concerned, we must vigorously continue the negotiations under way to convince the iranians that there is an alternative to the development of nuclear weapons, that the prospect of a partnership with europe, that the prospect of an economic cooperation agreement is worth any development of nuclear weapons, both for the security of that country and for its economic development. i also agree that human rights must not be neglected in these negotiations and that respect for them is a must. north korea is certainly a much more complex case, since it is already, in a sense, a pariah nation. sanctions against a country where the people are deprived of everything have little meaning. but it is not just a matter of the european union providing humanitarian aid, we must also play a more important political role. i fully agree with those who have said, as mr ford has just said, that the european union must not be a donor without being a political actor. relations with china, which are important relations, as mr jarzembowski has pointed out, can certainly help us to put pressure on north korea. it is perhaps the only country with real leverage over the north korean regime. in any case, it is essential that the discussions on the nonproliferation treaty do not end in a kind of failure, in a kind of soft status quo. the nonproliferation treaty is even more important today than it was in the past. indeed, there are now other risks, even more terrible, that is the proliferation towards all kinds of non-state actors, towards terrorists. i think that the european union must be very vigilant here too. so at this conference on the npt, the european union must speak out loud and act, in its negotiations with iran, in the discussions with korea, in which we must participate, i agree, to make our voices heard. if a world without nuclear weapons is not within reach, we must at least stop the dangerous proliferation.
member of the commission. mr president, all the speeches are obviously in the same direction and unanimous. they of course confirm the commission's position and conviction. they also demonstrate the importance of the npt and, above all, the need to preserve and even strengthen it. the commission is associated and will continue to be associated in the future with these efforts to support disarmament, in particular in russia, and non-proliferation. we are currently working in cooperation with the council to secure the financial means necessary to implement the union's policies in the field of non-proliferation and disarmament. to illustrate the commission's willingness to do so, i would like to mention an agreement recently reached during the revision of the cotonou agreement, which now contains as an essential element a clause on non-proliferation, aimed at strengthening multilateral agreements and export controls.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in lebanon.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, my group stands unreservedly by the side of the demonstrators in martyrs' square in beirut, who are peacefully demanding a future of freedom and democracy for their country and have already won the resignation of the philosyrite government. the syrian military occupation is no longer tolerable and it is time that the positive but vague statements made in recent days by the president of the syrian republic are followed up by concrete actions in a certain and near future. we reiterate our firm condemnation of the attack which led to the death of former president hariri and the loss of so many lives, and we support the desire of the un secretary-general to shed full light on this incident. the future of lebanon can only be based on a democratic process based on respect for human rights, starting with the holding of the next legislative elections in may. these elections must be free, democratic and transparent, and to that end we ask that they be prepared and followed by a european observation mission, which will make clear, as has already been the case with palestine, the role of this parliament. all the components of the complex lebanese society must feel involved in this process and be guarantors of the unity and territorial integrity of their country. as for syria, it is a crucial country in the whole middle east, a country which can and must choose the democratic path, the fight against terrorism and a constructive role in the solution of the israeli-palestinian conflict. europe has long been practicing the policy of extending its hand to damascus, and i hope that the decisions taken today by its leadership will consolidate and make this relationship irreversible. the countries of the middle east as a whole have a responsibility to support the efforts of the president of the palestinian authority to achieve a just peace with israel and to cooperate in the objective of building the palestinian state. to this end, all support for terrorism and the organisations which practise it must be stopped, both within their own countries and in the palestinian territories. finally, we must not forget the israeli-syrian dimension of this conflict. we therefore hope for a resumption of relations leading to a peace agreement and the withdrawal of the israeli army from the golan. the violence of terrorism and occupation forces has prevailed in the middle east for too long and it is time to return to the rule of law. only respect for the rule of law in international relations and democracy at home can ensure peace, stability and prosperity for the whole of the middle east. in this context, the european union must step up its efforts, make its political role more prominent and better adapt and target the economic means to achieve these objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i think we are almost unanimous at this stage. we shall see at the vote. there are some colleagues who would like to see a little more tender pedagogy with those hezbollah boys, but in reality we are going to vote today on a resolution which coincides with the appeal of the 140 syrian intellectuals to president assad and with the appeal made on 25 february by 33 other intellectuals to the lebanese intellectuals. we're all pretty much on the same page. however, unlike many of you, i am concerned about this, because generally in such dramatic situations agreements are made either on too general data or on insufficient minimum levels. in conclusion, i would point out that the european union continues to strategically propose national independence in the middle east as an objective to be achieved for the peoples, for peace and for european interests. think what would have happened if the same thing had happened in europe after the world wars. i think, from that standpoint, we're all really out of the game and bad advisers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time europe has pretended to ignore, almost to forget, the historical and political characteristics of lebanon, an extreme christian bastion - though not the only one - in that troubled region. the french-american-inspired un resolution 1559, which called for the withdrawal of 14,000 syrian troops from lebanese territory and the return of sovereignty to lebanon, which has been occupied for over 30 years, has not been substantially implemented since autumn 2004. it took the barbaric assassination of former prime minister harari to reawaken the feeling and the desire for freedom of the opposition and of a large part of the lebanese people and, above all, to awaken the sleeping conscience of this european union, which had left the lebanese people at the mercy of syrian domination for a long time. the new position taken by the saudi regime has isolated syria within the arab league. the european union should therefore take a position with some dignity and decide to make the signing of the association agreement with syria conditional on a complete withdrawal from lebanon. we do not leave the lebanese alone, who are patriotic and proud to be christians and to belong to western civilization. let us not leave them alone, as europe has left many peoples alone in the past against barbarism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, we are here tonight to celebrate a small miracle, because in other times in lebanon, after the assassination of a former prime minister, we would have seen the civil war re-ignite, whereas this time lebanese society has responded with peaceful indignation. for the first time, we saw druze, sunnis, shiites and christians marching together. what has been called the 'lebanon spring' now needs the support, encouragement and help of politics. it is not enough to appeal to the decent or proper resolutions of the united nations, but these institutions must be committed, first of all to convince syrian president assad that he must have the courage to overcome half measures. the deployment of a few thousand troops in the bekaa valley, 20 miles from beirut, is not a retreat, but simply sounds like a joke. we know, commissioner, that there will be no peace between palestine and israel and in the middle east as long as the syrian occupation of lebanon continues, which is an affront to the principle of legitimate sovereignty. we believe that peace, to be peace, must be a plural word, and we believe that there must be a complement of passion and political intervention in support of the peace process and for the recovery of the entire sovereignty of lebanon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that after this debate the commissioner will not conclude that he has listened to everyone and that he can go on the same way, as he seems to have said during the debate which has taken place in recent months. i am referring to both services and software. the decision taken yesterday, particularly as regards software, is a serious insult to the democratic will of the european citizens. instead of referring the text back to parliament, the college you represent decided to submit the directive to the council for approval, completely ignoring the opinion of the european parliament, which wanted to restart the legislative process. i believe that the directive lacks a clear legal framework and risks allowing large computer companies to patent not only software used in industrial applications but also other types of computer software, effectively putting a serious mortgage on the use of technological innovations in this field. it is clear that this method of interinstitutional cooperation, which ignores the views of the european parliament, the only institution democratically elected by universal suffrage, is not democratic and does not represent the will expressed by millions of european citizens.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a6-0045/2005) by mr sánchez presedo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences (com (2004) 0699 - com (2005) 0043 - c6 0001/2005 - 2004/0242 (cns)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report (a6-0040/2005) by mr wieland, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during the parliamentary year 2003-04 [2004/2090 (ini) ].
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the agenda includes the report (a6-0044/2005) by mr bowis, on behalf of the committee on development, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2004 (ini 2004/2141).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that much of what you had to say about the work of the acp-eu joint assembly in 2004 has already been said by the colleagues who have spoken before me, following the excellent report by mr bowis. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. the first concerns the low level of response to the work of the assembly among civil society. i don't think we can take that for granted or normal. there is virtually no attention from european public opinion, and that does not seem fair to me, given the original - one might say unique - character of an experience like this on the world stage. perhaps we should consider this and plan a real leap forward. the second consideration is linked to the first and concerns the need to deepen political dialogue, making it increasingly public. if we consider the current world situation, there is a strong need to revive an open and frank dialogue between the north and the south of the planet. the experience of the acp-eu joint assembly is a positive example in this respect, although not without its difficulties. we must make steady and patient progress on human rights and the strengthening of the international criminal court, in order to achieve greater mutual understanding. the third and final consideration is the need to understand that greater political trust between the european union and the acp countries is also achieved by building a solid basis for economic relations, which can feed the cotonou partnership agreement. this objective must also be pursued in the context of the reform of the sugar regime, striking a good balance between european interests and those of the acp countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report (a6-0043/2005) by mr dombrovskis, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii (a) and viii (b) and the preliminary draft estimates of the european parliament (section i) for the 2006 budgetary proceduresection i, european parliamentsection ii, councilsection iv, court of justicesection v, court of auditorssection vi, european economic and social committeesection vii, committee of the regionssection viii (a), european ombudsmansection viii (b), european data protection supervisor (bud) [2004/2271]; the report by mr dombrovskis on the commission's communication on the implementation of the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2006; the report by mr dombrovskis on the commission's communication on the implementation of the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2006; - the report (a6- /2005) by mr garriga polledo, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft amending budget no 1/2005 of the european union for the financial year 2005 (com (2005) 0025 - c6- /2005 - 2005//2014 (bud)) - the report (a6- /2005) by mr jensen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimated state of play of the european parliament's budget for the european union's 2005 amending budget (salary adjustment) [2005/2034 (bud) ].
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, with the exception of mr dombrovskis' report, which will be put to the vote on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.45 p.m. and resumed at 10.50 p.m.)
the next item is the commission statement on the planned trade in eggs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very important that the european parliament should reject and firmly condemn all forms of trade and trafficking in human tissues and cells, since this is contrary to the fundamental principle of the inalienability of the human body, and that it should establish a ban on the buying and selling of human body parts. in this connection, i think it is necessary to emphasize the difference between trade and donation. however, we must also state with sincerity and frankness that we must be very vigilant when it comes to donations. in fact, behind the donation there are often motives for profit and therefore exploitation. it is not by chance that the shortage of eggs and sperm has recently been mentioned in countries where the anonymity of donors is no longer guaranteed. it is thus clear that often the giving is not the result of altruistic impulses, but can conceal forms of profit. so i think we have to be very careful, very vigilant and very clear. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize that when we talk about cells it is important to understand the difference between cells in general and eggs. it is important to ensure the legislative freedom of the member states in this regard, as egg donation is not allowed in all countries and is a matter for the member states.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm going to close this discussion.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm going to close this discussion. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare this morning's speeches and the resolution on the revision of the lisbon strategy, which we are about to vote on, with the speech by president barroso a few weeks ago, we can only welcome the broad agreement that exists, at least in principle, that the relaunch of the lisbon and gothenburg strategies depends on the indispensable rebalancing of the three dimensions of the strategy, namely the environmental, economic and social dimensions. however, we do not think that this is sufficient to participate, at least in its present form, in the political compromise that is being drawn up. we are of course glad that some of our proposals have been incorporated into the joint resolution, but we believe that there are still some gaps in the text. there is no clear choice of the instruments we must have at our disposal to achieve our objectives and there is no guarantee of the ability and willingness of the commission, as well as of this parliament, to resist those who do not believe in the need for a european government of the economy and who are pushing for a renationalisation of cohesion policies, for a downward reform of the labour market and for further reductions in the union budget. the concern to find a compromise has led to the inclusion of contradictory elements in the resolution, which make the message confusing rather than convincing. we notice some inconsistencies in this text. it is well known that nobody likes to pay taxes, but we do not share the objective of reducing taxes to a minimum and indiscriminately, because this would only increase social inequalities. europe needs tax reform that reduces labour costs and rates in other sectors. the commission has already said this many years ago, but nothing has been done since then and the subject has been dropped from the european debate. secondly, the resolution maintains a very moderate and even ambiguous position on three very important subjects, on which there will be a tough legislative confrontation in the coming months, namely the services directive, the reach regulation and the software patentability directive. the outcome of this comparison will indicate whether the lisbon strategy is merely a return to the old thatcherite recipes or the beginning of a genuine european new deal. mr president, commissioner mccreevy, we think that the bolkestein directive should be withdrawn so that we can start again on the right foot, namely with a directive on services of general interest. we believe, commissioner verheugen, that the reach regulation in its present form is hardly a sufficient compromise between the obviously important industrial concerns and the priority concerns of health and the environment. this is a compromise which the commission, but also the european parliament, must defend tooth and nail against the aggressive lobby of a chemical industry which does not understand that the organisation of an efficient and credible control system is the best way to ensure its competitiveness. finally, i think that to expressly oppose the patentability of software is to say that innovation made in europe is promoted by the freedom and circulation of knowledge and not by the protection of the big multinationals and their monopolies. mr president, there is a fundamental ambiguity in this text as regards the real added value of the union compared with the action of national governments. in our view, this value is given by the ability to invest in growth instruments, which is not reduced to just percentages of gdp, and in non-strictly material sectors, such as education and culture, exploiting renewable resources and sustainable solutions and gradually abandoning sectors that consume and waste resources, such as large infrastructure and intensive agriculture, and that generate high risks to health and the environment, such as nuclear energy, gmos and harmful chemicals. mr president, we will be with you on these choices when we can, but we will be against you and with the citizens of europe when we cannot.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives set by the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved unless the european union radically changes the way it deals with the economic and social problems which characterize contemporary society in europe and the rest of the world. we live in a globalised market economy, which only ostensibly supports free competition. in reality, free competition presupposes equal or at least equivalent starting points through negotiated compensation. this is not the case, and there is no policy for mobility in the various sectors which can help to boost competitiveness and hence employment. to drive the system that has become established with the global market, politics, finance and economics must find new rules than those that governed the market before globalization. only myopia and the inability to understand the consequences of information globalisation thanks to the internet can lead the european institutions to believe that it is enough to meet and set out a series of proposals for them to be implemented. it is not enough to draw up multiannual plans from above. history teaches us that in the last century the economy of a great power was overwhelmed by reality, because of centralized plans that were splendid only in theory. realities are not conditioned by plans, but on the contrary it is the plans that must hold up against reality. at this stage of our society, an economy based solely on unlimited consumerism cannot suffice. the lisbon european council, when it defined the knowledge society, left out certain problems, such as the formulation of rules that would ensure that knowledge is correct and not manipulated or used for illicit purposes. the lisbon strategy will not be able to take off unless the union's objectives include identifying and implementing instruments to help developing countries to achieve democracy and respect for human rights, workers' rights and the rights of the child. we must think in parallel in terms of social economy and development economics. to achieve this, europe must change its relations with those countries where workers have no social security or legal protection and where children are not allowed to play but are forced to work. the protection of the environment and the creation of a european social model must be pursued.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were asked what are the two main reasons why i consider the convergence which is taking place today between the presidency of the council, the commission and parliament to be important, i would say that the first reason is that the social and environmental quality of development is sincerely recognized not as limits and obstacles but as factors in competitiveness. the second reason is that we all agree that, in order to really relaunch the lisbon strategy, we need to create a widespread role at local level, by first making national governments and parliaments and public opinion responsible. i fully agree with this, and i hope that it will be translated into concrete action at the european council. however, i must take this opportunity to express my disagreement with the speech by mrs monica frassoni, who, among the reasons given for rejecting the motion for a resolution - which i do agree with - cited the fact that in one of the paragraphs of the resolution the reach regulation would be put at risk. mr president, you know how much i value this regulation and i would never risk jeopardizing it by voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. however, i would urge my colleagues to stop regarding this regulation as a symbol of good or evil, because such polarizations presuppose that there are winners and losers in the end. i think that an agreement on this regulation would be a win for us all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, i should like to make a practical remark to help solve what seems to me to be one of the knots of our problem, namely, to go beyond the statements of principle and to arrive somehow at more concrete views of our strategy. i take as my point of departure the issue of human capital, which everyone considers to be strategic for the recovery of competitiveness. during the last parliamentary term, when we found that 94.5% of european schools were connected to the internet, but that only 25% of teachers were able to use the new technologies for teaching purposes, we wavered for a long time about e-learning. parliament called for action by national governments, which should have been able to use resources, estimated at up to eur 30 billion, through a system of priorities to enable them to solve the problem of human capital. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. at that point the billions became millions, 44 to be precise, a ridiculous figure to solve the problem, so the statement remained a matter of principle and the priority remained ideological without ever becoming a budgetary priority. in view of this, i ask that the commission be able to hold those in power to account and to encourage action on human capital, so that, since the union budget requires us to provide fairly for agriculture by 50 per cent, europe does not remain a guardian of animal capital rather than a promoter of human capital.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i think that these two aspects should be dealt with together. the promotion of social cohesion and the increase in the quantity and quality of work has certainly not been promoted by the policies of liberalism and competitiveness, but neither have the monetary policies, which have even been sanctified in the new constitutional treaty, the only example of a constitution in history which includes a monetary treaty. we are faced with the paradox of a europe with a very strong currency, but with a weak economy in a growing crisis and a society in deep trouble. the risks of worsening the situation are multiplying, as are those inherent in the bolkestein directive, the cutting of the european budget and the false flexibility of the stability pact, which some people want to see only in order to achieve counter-reforms on pensions. the european community is faced with social fractures, relocations and the inevitable decline of its own social and cultural model. we must take a new path, one that breaks with liberalism and monetarism, is based on upward harmonization of rights and wages and relaunch quality development. that is why we must break the stability pact cage from the left, investing in individual countries, but also directly as the european union, in research, innovation and whatever else is needed to promote development. we need a different europe, a social europe, the europe we will be calling for at the european demonstration in brussels on 19 march.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council will be dealing with reforms which are crucial for the future of the european union, including the reform of the stability pact. unfortunately, this reform is shrouded in mystery. in fact, we are moving from generic news on hypothetical nineteen points to make the pact more flexible to the hypotheses of leaving the pact unchanged. in this respect, we regret that the european parliament has missed the opportunity to discuss directly in this house the way in which the pact should be reformed. this is the responsibility of the president of the european parliament and also of the main political groups. it seems that, as usual, a compromise hypothesis is being reached, characterized by tactics and political balancing. that is not what europe needs at the moment. instead, it would require more courage and pragmatism in relation to the key objectives for economic recovery, namely investment in research, innovation, competitiveness, infrastructure and structural reforms. we are therefore once again concerned that the commission and the luxembourg presidency have abandoned the so-called golden rule, which could have done so much to boost our economic growth. we owe a concrete commitment to the economic outlook, especially to our young people. in this respect, a genuine youth pact is needed. young people need to be able to think about a future of stability, security and social cohesion, thanks to facilitated access to employment and credit, but also to facilitated access to housing and family. in conclusion, i believe that a strong commitment by the european union is needed to ensure that there are real opportunities for the younger generations in europe. that is what we are asking for and what young people in particular are expecting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, as has already been said, the main topics of the next spring european council are two, namely the reform of the stability and growth pact and the revision of the lisbon strategy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-13 is based on the principle of the need to ensure that the budgetary discipline of the union is not distorted by excessive deficits. the compromise that is emerging seems useful, but not decisive. a golden rule applied ex post will do little for development, but it risks losing credibility and reputation. a clear ex ante strategy of deficit spending on objectives at european level would be more useful, but we are probably not yet ready for such a choice. the same was true of the revision of the lisbon strategy. it will be of little use to redefine the objectives if the instruments are always subsidiarity, open coordination, peer pressure and moral suasion, especially in periods of economic downturn. we need direct instruments of implementation, such as european action plans, but we are not yet ready for that either. it seems to me that we need to be mature in order to have more europe, that is to say, to be able to decide once and for all what the economic constitution we want for our europe should be, beyond national egoisms. the challenges of globalisation are leaving us with very little time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the deadlock that has developed in recent days with regard to the revision of the stability and growth pact shows that flexibility must be managed. the long list of important exceptions prepared by the presidency, which would allow a temporary breakthrough in the deficit reference parameter, has obviously opened the pandora's box of many national demands. this is not going to work and we will have to accept the covenant as it is, more or less stupid. the only relevant exception is the one which provides for derogations only in respect of specific and limited european initiatives in the fields of training, research and large physical and intangible infrastructure networks. the flexibility of the pact must be linked to a genuine european added value in investment. the events of the past few days also teach us that there is a need for real coordination of the economic policies of the union. i have the impression that the governments of the member states are pursuing a strategy of slowly and subtly weakening the role of the commission. we shall probably be able to see this again in june when we discuss the financial perspective, in which it is not difficult to foresee a new attack on the credibility of the community dimension of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the lisbon european council in 2000 was a major turning point for european policy in general and for research and the knowledge society in particular. the prodi commission, and in particular commissioner busquin, but first of all italian commissioner ruberti, confirmed in lisbon their plan to create a european research area through a number of actions. this is a key step towards europe becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. we all know the current gap between europe and its main competitors in this field, namely the united states and japan. the proportion of gdp devoted to research expenditure is 3.12% in japan, 2.76% in the united states, 1.99% in the union of fifteen and 1.93% in the union of twenty-five. we must close this gap and the european research area is moving in the right direction. this project is within reach, but it requires determination to make it a reality, the same determination that was manifested in the creation of the single market and the single currency. the importance of the european research area is underlined by the new competences that the constitutional treaty gives to the union in this area and we therefore ask the commission to act in accordance with the new legal framework. in taking stock of what has been done and outlining future prospects, i would like to stress the importance of continuity between the seventh and the sixth framework programmes. the latter was a break with the previous programmes, setting itself more ambitious objectives and introducing innovative instruments that promote the involvement of a greater number of actors and the integration of their actions. the seventh framework programme, however, introduces a new feature, namely the establishment of the european research council. i also speak on behalf of my colleague, erika mann, who cannot be present for this debate. the european research council is responding to the growing demand from the european scientific community for a new engine for basic research. basic research is crucial for successful innovation and will create european added value. until now, european added value has been defined by the collaboration of research teams in different countries. now, as the mayor report says, it is time to give a new definition of added value, which provides for individual researchers or individual teams in any member state of the european union to be able to compete with all other researchers on the basis of excellence. this is the real mission of the european research council, which must be independent in its scientific assessments, autonomous in its functioning and adequately resourced. i would ask the commission to submit as soon as possible a precise and clear proposal on the structure and composition of the governing bodies of the european research council. the report pays particular attention to the subject of human resources, which is the real strength of the european union. in this connection, it is necessary to create all the conditions for european researchers to be able to express themselves in the best possible way and it is essential to encourage their mobility and to ensure that it becomes a mass phenomenon at all levels of their careers. the two-way mobility between firms, universities and research centres, the harmonisation of working conditions and career progression and the creation of european infrastructures are essential conditions for creating a fertile environment for research. for these purposes, i ask that the marie curie actions be strengthened, which have proved to be effective and promote mobility in the scientific world. i would also like to mention the need to promote women's access to research and their careers, with reference to human resources. we want more women at all levels, even at the highest levels, and we also want gender research. the future of research and of europe also depends on our ability to make science more attractive to young people. a closer link between educational pathways and scientific careers is the precondition for having the quantity of researchers needed for the success of the lisbon strategy. another chapter of the report is technology transfer. the seventh framework programme will have to pay particular attention to technology transfer, coordinating european research policy with industrial policy. the technology platforms and joint technology initiatives are key mechanisms for this purpose and at the same time resources must be increased for instruments specifically dedicated to small and mediumsized enterprises, for which it is necessary to provide for a reduction in the criteria for admission to projects and in general in the bureaucracy, which has often been an obstacle to the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises in research programmes. on this last point, i think we should follow the recommendations of the marimon report and the ormala report, and not just with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises. in conclusion, i would like to briefly mention the thematic priorities, without going into the substance of the individual topics. i think it should be stressed that these thematic priorities reflect the strategic priorities of the lisbon agenda. in this connection, i would like to point out that, in order to implement the lisbon agenda, we must adopt a different approach to spending than in the past, that is to say, we must move from a concept which provides for what we in italy call 'rainy aid' to a concept which favours spending on investments which have a multiplier effect, that is to say, the effect of strengthening growth. finally, i would stress that parliament must not make any concessions on research funding and i hope that the commission will be parliament's ally in this battle. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, there could hardly be a better day than today, when this house has expressed its position on the mid-term review of lisbon, to take up the issue of the future of european research policy. let me thank mrs locatelli, the rapporteur, in particular, and all the committee members for the fruitful and intense cooperation demonstrated during this first month of our work together. i would also like to thank everyone present at this late hour for their real interest in and commitment to future european research policy. the commission attaches a great deal of importance to the adoption of the locatelli report. it constitutes the european parliament’s formal position on our june communication and, what is more, will pave the way for preparing the commission’s proposal on the new framework programme to be adopted on 6 april 2005. before highlighting what i consider to be the key elements of the locatelli report, i would like to share with you some thoughts about the general context of european research and our plans for the seventh framework programme. even if some of you heard this during the plenary debate on the question of the financing of fp7 two weeks ago, the context is clear. we want and need to relaunch the lisbon strategy. the intensive discussion this morning on the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy has allowed us to take the measure of the challenges ahead. europe cannot compete on the basis of cheap labour or low social standards. we cannot compete on the back of our environment. we do not have the natural resources to sustain our prosperity; we only have our brains, intelligence and creativity. knowledge, in the broader sense, is our strongest factor of competitiveness in the global, fiercely competitive market place. in europe, we need to become much better at producing knowledge through research, diffusing knowledge through education, and using and applying knowledge through innovation. that means that the knowledge triangle of research, education and innovation must function within favourable framework conditions, which reward the knowledge that is put to work. the commission is already working hard to develop such framework conditions for knowledge and innovation. for example, we will come forward later this year with a revision of the state aid regime, work on fiscal incentives for research and development and innovation, guidelines on cooperation between industry and universities, re-evaluation of the profession of european researchers, and other actions. only knowledge-based growth can leverage the resources that we need to sustain the cost of the inclusive society, with the high levels of care and protection that europeans aspire to. building the knowledge society is thus probably the best and maybe the only way to sustain the european model of society, without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection. it is in this same lisbon context that i will present our proposals for the seventh framework programme. as some of you rightly stated during our debate on the oral question on the research budget in strasbourg two weeks ago, fp7 needs to be the framework programme for the lisbon strategy. i could not agree more. i want it to be the programme for the growth and job strategy. the duration of the programme will be seven years, as in the case of the next financial perspectives. but given that we envisage a mid-term review, this allows us more stability, but also more flexibility. both are needed. as regards the structure, there will be more emphasis on themes and less on instruments. cooperation projects, formerly known as collaborative research, will be more focused on industry needs and will therefore be more supportive of growth. i hope that you will all appreciate this new approach. there will be a strong focus on ideas, with actions concerning frontier research in the context of the european research council. the ‘people’ part of fp7 will strengthen the existing and well-appreciated mobility actions under marie curie. the ‘capacities’ part will deal with infrastructures, smes, regions, the research potential of all member states, as well as science, society and international cooperation. as regards the management of the funds, which are to double, i am fully aware of the challenges ahead. but with their simplification and rationalisation on the one hand, and modernised management as well as externalisation of some of the activities – such as the european research council, smes and the mobility actions – on the other, we are prepared to rise to this challenge. turning to the locatelli report itself, a report that will make a significant contribution to the success of the forthcoming framework programme, allow me, firstly, to express my sincere gratitude for all the support you have given until now for the proposed doubling of funds for fp7. this is fully in line with the commission’s proposal for the next financial perspective and firmly defends the proposal to set the eu budget above 1% of gdp. let me make a personal comment here. i really appreciate this support. it is crucial. together we have a real chance to start changing the structure of the european budget in favour of more growth- and competitiveness-orientated actions. the financial perspective debate will thus be the moment of truth for the european union. it will be then, and not later, that we must demonstrate that we are ready to address the challenges ahead of us fully. we should not miss this opportunity to prove that we are ready to invest in the future rather than look to the past. second, you rightly ask for simpler and clearer administrative procedures in order to improve efficiency and reduce the costs for participants, in particular smes and small actors. i have underlined the importance of simplification on several occasions, starting with the hearing last autumn, and i did not forget the message i was given two weeks ago in this plenary. we have been told since fp4 that there will be simplification. it is time to do something. the commission will do all in its power to achieve this and i look to parliament to support it. third, let me thank you for your support for the swift establishment of the european research council: i am using your exact wording. let me underline two fundamental principles that i intend to strive for vigorously: autonomy and scientific excellence. i wish to assure you of my determination to guarantee this autonomy. furthermore, autonomy will be the best guarantor of the highest level of scientific excellence, which should be the sole criterion for the selection of the proposed projects. what is more, the erc needs to support at european level research in all scientific fields, from specific industry-driven research to social and human sciences. the eu needs high-level researchers in all research fields in order to grow and compete with the usa, japan and other strong parties. in terms of the structure of the erc, our current view is that an executive agency would be best placed to support such a council. let me assure you that we are examining all possible options, including those based on a more mid-term approach, and will inform you of our decision in due course. fourth, the report is fully aligned with the commission’s intention in recommending a substantial increase of funding for marie curie actions and welcoming the commission’s proposal for european technology platforms and joint technology initiatives. as you know, this will be an important part of the forthcoming proposal for the framework programme. europe is weak in public and private partnerships, and this needs to be sorted out. focusing the efforts of all the stakeholders around a few well-identified key technologies is of the utmost importance, and this is what we intend to do. finally, the report puts great emphasis on the regional dimension, by underlining the need for the participation of regions in order to increase investment in research and innovation. let me add that the structural funds and european research policy share common objectives. the link between the regional dimension and fp7 is important in the sense that they should be mutually reinforcing. parliament is fully justified in drawing attention to this requirement. let me conclude by saying that i consider the locatelli report a strong encouragement to my current preparations for the fp7 proposal. i am happy to note that on all key issues we very much follow the same line. this is an encouraging signal for the legislative process ahead of us. i trust you will send a strong signal tomorrow in your vote on the locatelli report. we need this strong signal. it would, and should, be widely heard. it would be an echo of the support you broadly expressed during the debate earlier today for renewed efforts for lisbon, and an echo of our mutual readiness and determination to really deliver. (applause)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party (epp-ed) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the shadow rapporteur for the european people's party, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs locatelli, for her work and, above all, to congratulate her on having succeeded in doing a collective job in the best spirit of cooperation, creating a solid basis for continuing to work together on european research policy, pending the imminent arrival of the seventh framework programme. research, which president barroso has identified as one of the priorities of the renewed lisbon strategy, is the founding tool of the knowledge society. it is not only a strategic step, but also an essential one, to close europe's competitive gap in innovation and, consequently, in economic growth, employment and sustainable development. to make up these shortfalls quickly, more resources are needed, doubling the funds available under the previous framework programme. however, this is not enough. in the context of the more ambitious objective of providing the scientific community, industry and european society in general with the tools needed to strengthen and improve research capacity, it is above all necessary to make better use of resources in order to create genuine centres of excellence which can attract our researchers, who are still too often forced to emigrate abroad. strengthening the european research area is important not only for our researchers and their mobility, but also for attracting both public and private investment, from within and outside europe. this is an objective which can be achieved first by directing resources to areas which have traditionally been strategic for the european union. the european parliament is calling for thematic continuity with the sixth framework programme and a stronger spirit of transnational cooperation. the european research area must be the catalyst for private investment. in addition, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on small and mediumsized enterprises, precisely because of the peculiar industrial structure of our economy, which is characterized mainly by an industrial fabric formed by productive districts which are unable to develop autonomous research projects. it is therefore essential to strengthen the dialogue between small and mediumsized enterprises or between associations of small and mediumsized enterprises and our universities and the many european centres of excellence, a dialogue which must lead to more effective and profitable technology transfer. the proposal to set up a european research council is in this context, and i share its objectives, including that of guiding fundamental research by ensuring that it is appropriate and of high quality. however, i have expressed my concerns both as regards the potential overlap of responsibilities with the other european coordination bodies and institutions and as regards the funds to be allocated to the institution and administration of the council itself. mr president, i conclude by raising the common challenge that research should become a real beacon of european competitiveness, a real action plan. if europe does not make this choice, it risks being seen as a tired and mechanical giant, a continent lost in chatter and too often bending its strategies to the particular interests of the member states. i hope that this will be the decade of research, as the last was the decade of the single market.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank commissioner potočnik in particular for his statements, which i consider extremely important. as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group, i would also like to thank my colleague, mrs pia locatelli, for her work and for her cooperation. this paper highlights three key elements of the next research framework programme, namely the european research council, the new thematic priority areas for research and the technology platforms. in this way, parliament recognises that basic research has a dimension which transcends the member states and which must be addressed at european union level in the logic of the lisbon strategy. this means that a genuine development policy must be promoted through concrete research instruments, such as technology platforms, which are financed mainly by companies but also by public institutions, member states, regions and local authorities. research thus becomes a tool, the nucleus around which to develop a general policy proposal for economic and social development, alongside a monetary policy which is already a reality. this will enable enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to meet their research needs and to become more competitive. these are strong and decisive innovations to give new impetus to european companies, supporting new sectors and innovation, while ensuring that conventional production is competitive. in these guidelines, parliament states that it does not want to remain a passive spectator to the process of deindustrialisation in europe and calls on the commission and the council to make a more concrete commitment to the training of european researchers. this programme is the heart of development policy. it is pointless to think of a change in the stability pact, which is only a palliative, but the real cure is a policy of economic and social development at the level of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr locatelli on his excellent work. the problems of the european union's competitiveness vis-à-vis the new asian giants, the flight of our best minds to horizons of greater opportunity, the difficulty of achieving the lisbon objectives in terms of employment, development and innovation, energy supply and health are the issues that fill our parliamentary days and on which the future of our economy and our social system depends. these are closely linked topics, whose common denominator is the development of scientific and technological research. research means knowledge, employment and economic development, and a better quality of life. it is therefore essential to obtain a substantial increase in funding to make it our strong point. however, research is not just about funds, instruments and infrastructure. he's the man doing the research. any economic effort by the european union and the member states will be in vain without adequate human capital. i am not referring to quality, because our universities and our graduates are already the best in the world, but i am referring to employment, research and earning opportunities. paradoxically, as science and technology play an increasingly decisive role in today's global economy, young people are turning away from science because of limited employment opportunities. as a result, many graduates are forced to leave europe or live for years on scholarships that are totally inadequate for the current cost of living, waiting for a stroke of luck. in recent years, the number of young europeans choosing to pursue scientific studies has been declining. european universities do not have enough staff in the sciences to replace teachers at the end of their careers, and fewer and fewer graduates in science and technology find work as researchers than their main competitors in europe. we must at all costs reverse this trend, introduce our young people to science from an early age, stimulate their curiosity and above all enable not just the fortunate few but all those who deserve it to put their knowledge at the service of europe, offering in return jobs, careers and adequate pay. if we want a future based on knowledge, we must focus only on our young resources to train them and, above all, not to lose them.
on behalf of the group (uen). mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, there is no doubt that there is a need for reform of the c sugar regime, also in the light of the latest developments in the wto, but we believe that this must be done within the framework of the key points of the overall reform of the cap. this means making the necessary changes, keeping in mind the essential objective of maintaining the sector's competitiveness in the medium and long term in the international context. we have the impression that the european commission, in complying with the constraints imposed by international agreements and free trade agreements to reduce production, is willing to sacrifice certain productive areas, which are often the weakest. this will be facilitated by the mechanism provided for by the commission for the repurchase of allowances from one member state to another. at european level, the closure and abandonment of many sugar beet factories and the abandonment of beet cultivation by many farms confirm that the level of competitive pressure is constantly increasing, as a result of the reduction in real terms of the prices guaranteed by the volumes produced. in conclusion, the measures proposed by the european commission are certainly unacceptable, since the excessive reduction in the intervention reference price, the sharp fall in the prices of beet oil, the partial compensation of 60% and the introduction of private storage put the survival of the sugar beet sector at great risk. we believe that the future legislative proposal should instead be based on guaranteed quotas and prices linked to real national production quotas. it should also protect the european internal market by introducing import quotas, introduce more effective customs rules to control the origin of the product, reduce quotas to a level that ensures coverage of domestic consumption, and introduce or maintain measures to reduce structural disparities, such as national aid authorisations, in order to safeguard the needs of farmers living in the less-favoured regions of the union, ensuring the maintenance of multi-purpose agriculture in all areas of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we are dealing with an important issue here and with an increasingly conscious consumer in the future. our group has dealt with the subject of organic farming at great length and has attached great importance to it. the traditional farming is indispensable, but we must also consider organic farming, alongside traditional farming, not just as a small, limited sector, but as a genuine complementary offer in the future. i am therefore very grateful to the commissioner for the special attention she has paid to this subject and for the fact that she has emphasized this in her brief statement today. we must step up our efforts. we must stimulate demand and we can only do so if we can compensate for or solve the difficulties at the production, processing and operating stages. i do not want to go into details here, because i do not have the time or the attention, but i think that the 21 actions and the three priority areas have involved a great deal of effort and a great deal of imagination. but it would take a little more courage. the same courage is needed when it comes to providing the financial means to create human resources. it goes without saying that this involves a timetable and the necessary checks.
i have an oral amendment to amendment 5 to add, after ‘business and industry’, ‘e.g. by involving the technology platforms’.
in writing. finally, the european parliament is tackling the serious problem of female genital mutilation as one of its priority objectives in defending the dignity of women. too often europe has announced its good intentions to defend the dignity of the person, women and children without being able to follow up with concrete and truly decisive initiatives. we hope that today's meeting will be a turning point in the seriousness with which we are dealing with the phenomenon of female genital mutilation, a phenomenon which has nothing to do with respect for the traditions and cultures of other peoples, since barbarism is not culture. we therefore propose that a directive be adopted prohibiting the practice of female sexual mutilation, that initiatives be taken to provide proper education on the problem, in particular to support immigrants from countries where such practices are tolerated and even considered lawful. we also believe that it is necessary to promote a campaign to raise awareness among citizens of the phenomenon of violence against women and to disseminate appropriate information to respect the health and physical integrity of women, and that the criminal legislation of the member states of the union should provide for the practice of sexual harassment of women as an aggravating circumstance in the offence of personal injury.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the visit to riyadh and jeddah by the delegation for relations with the gulf states was extremely useful, both in terms of increased cooperation between the european parliament and countries crucial to stability in the middle east, such as saudi arabia, and in terms of greater understanding between different cultures and religions. we met with many representatives of the political, economic, media and so-called civil society, which in fact does not yet exist in saudi arabia, because of the ban on political parties and associations. we were in the saudi capital during the week of the first elections, which were held only at the municipal level but which nevertheless marked a first timid step towards the necessary political and social reforms. however, the exclusion of women from voting cast a heavy shadow over the credibility of the whole process. we have made it clear to all our interlocutors that it was unacceptable to deny women the right to vote. we also reiterated this to prince abdullah himself, who seemed to agree, but said that we still needed time. in the meantime, a few days ago, the saudi foreign minister's statement came out, announcing the participation of women in the upcoming elections. let us therefore be confident that words are followed by deeds. women are now a very important engine in building the desired democratic institutions. many of them are educated and trained and hold positions of responsibility in many segments of society. the women's rights activists we met are working hard and tenaciously to make women more aware of their rights. it goes without saying that there is still a lot to be done in respect of women's rights and, in general, respect for civil rights and above all human rights, including those of the many foreign workers working in the country. in reality, there are conflicting demands in the country today between those who want to see saudi society more open and those who want to guarantee the status quo. however, the impression is that it is difficult to go back. all our interlocutors also stressed the saudi commitment to combating terrorism and religious fundamentalism, which, as we know, finds a worrying fertile ground in the country. it is appropriate to emphasize a request that has been made to us constantly, and which i believe should be supported, namely that of a strengthening of relations between europe and saudi arabia in order to achieve common objectives of peace, stability, political reforms and economic cooperation. in particular, we should jointly support efforts to remove the causes of terrorism and to end the israeli-palestinian conflict. in addition, saudi arabia urges the european institutions to increase their presence in the country and to strengthen economic and trade relations. i think it is crucial to intensify contacts on all fronts, especially in this delicate transition phase. a final point to consider is that even the most reform-minded saudis are asking us in the west not to impose our model of society and our model of democracy and to respect their timetables for implementation, even if they do not always meet our expectations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our request is very clear: we are asking for the dot bangladesh to be replaced by the dot burma because the situation in that country seems more urgent to us. i think that the delegation for relations with asia does not want a resolution on bangladesh at this time, and it would be appropriate for parliament to take a position on burma.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress that for several weeks now we have been trying to bring the problem of bangladesh to the attention of the house and to that of european public opinion in general. the country is shaken by very strong internal tensions. i would also like to say that although the chairman of the delegation for relations with asia is against it, that does not mean that there is no urgency in discussing the situation in that country. i think that is a rather strange argument, and we therefore support keeping this item on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the need to make police action more transparent within the union, i would like to draw attention to one specific aspect, namely the importance for this parliament of calling on the council of the european union to make the european code of ethics for the police binding. this code was adopted by the committee of ministers of the council of europe on 19 september 2001 and should be regarded as the starting point for the development of professional standards in the police in the european union. the integration of that code into european legal systems would make a fundamental contribution to the development of european law more in line with international human rights and more advanced national police legislation. from the point of view of the union's internal policy, the transformation of the code into a legally binding act, thanks to the provisions it contains on the ethical training of police personnel, would have an important function of prevention and of guaranteeing that - commissioner frattini knows what i am talking about - serious human rights violations such as those committed by the italian police in genoa during the g8 summit in 2001 are not repeated. from the point of view of external relations, the adoption of the code would give the european union greater international credibility, for which respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law in third states is an essential element for the development of external relations and the conclusion of international treaties.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the may part-session.
the agenda includes the debate on the bujitenweg report on procedural rights in criminal proceedings in the european union. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group has welcomed the commission's proposal and considers the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to be extremely thorough. they are based on a basic principle, which concerns the procedural guarantees to be harmonised and offered to all defendants in criminal proceedings in the european union: if criminal proceedings are organised at european level, the rights of citizens must also be guaranteed at that level. this is an urgent principle because it increases mutual trust between the various judicial systems, without which there is no cooperation. as commissioner frattini has pointed out, these are minimal procedural rights, but they are absolutely essential: the presence of a lawyer at all stages of the proceedings, the translation of all documents, the assistance of an interpreter, and so on. if these rights are not guaranteed, we run the risk of unfair or arbitrary trials. there is, finally, the sore point: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the subject of exceptions, i.e. the possibility urged by some members that member states may not apply these safeguards to particularly serious forms of crime, including terrorism. our group rejects this solution. the compromise reached in amendment no 4 in recital 8 recognizes the need for a legal and ethical threshold which member states must never exceed, even in the fight against terrorism: the european union has a duty to protect human rights, the international convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i also think that the argument made by a colleague about the high costs of this reform is not particularly noble. it is an excessive concern, partly because it is very difficult to put an economic value on the protection of human rights. we must do more in the fight against terrorism, but without suppressing the rights of the accused and the accused. we cannot accept a double standard, as is unfortunately the case in the united states, for example with the guantanamo affair and the changes to the american judicial system, because for the sake of europe's legal culture, for the sake of the memory of what cesare beccaria has represented for this legal culture, i believe that the end of the habeas corpus cannot be announced. mr president, terrorism is first and foremost a flagrant violation of human rights. it would therefore be a paradox if we wanted to fight it by violating the civil rights of the defendants or the suspects in these proceedings ourselves.
the debate on this report has now come to an end. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr panayiotis demetriou on the european police college. i call mr frattini on behalf of the commission.
there is no reply from the commission. i declare the debate closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on two recommendations for the second reading on road transport by mr helmut markov: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i call the rapporteur, mr markov.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist group fully shares the approach taken by mr navarro in his own-initiative report. i would like to use the short time available to point out - especially to the benefit of commissioner barrot - that the commission proposal, while agreeable, does not have up-to-date statistical data on the growth of the different modes of transport: the data goes back to 2002. the collection of statistical data is very important, but it is not taken into account properly, even by eurostat, especially in relation to the origin-destination data of goods on land, which would really allow us to work on the transfer by sea. in addition to the general survey, it would be useful to extend the framework to relations with third countries: the southern shores of the mediterranean, the balkans, the black sea, the north sea, maybe russia, which could participate in projects like marco polo, but with which it is difficult to have fluid services. finally, it does not help that there is some confusion in the terminology concerning the definition of motorways of the sea. it would be necessary to clarify this in order to encourage the substitution of road use for combined transport, not to be confused with compulsory cabotage which is aimed rather at improving the service. the mainland sector is the one that needs to be encouraged, especially for those who transfer unaccompanied semi-trailers, and these incentives should not be considered as state aid.
the report by mr kinnock, which is rigorous and widely shared, states that the achievement of the mdgs requires a change of system. a change that involves governments in the north and south of the world and international financial institutions. the rules of international trade must be overturned, trade agreements and indiscriminate liberalization must be opposed, and fair trade and a culture of rights must be supported: access to education, water, food, health care. the global week of action to free rights and govern international trade has just started today, and people are sitting in our parliament today who are saying that this is necessary. this is not the first time that the united nations and the international community have set out to launch a program that can eradicate poverty. but there are fifteen years of broken promises, and the target of giving the poor countries 0.7 per cent of the gdp of the more developed countries is really far away. kinnock is right when he says that the politics of italy, my country, is a disgrace; that is my opinion too, but i think it is a shame that britain is also involved in the war in iraq. the eu and its member countries cannot shirk their moral responsibilities and obligations. alternative sources of funding need to be discussed. we must prevent accounting fraud, prevent security expenditure from being included in development expenditure, prevent budgetary values from being inflated by debt cancellation measures: debt that must be written off. serious development cooperation is achieved by providing countries with the infrastructure and instruments on which they can then base their own economic and social development. human rights, gender, environment and children's rights: are all identified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world science forum has shown that only 10% of the world's research is concerned with 90% of the diseases, which are those of the poor, so they have no market and science does not deal with them. the first is to reverse the priorities of scientific research towards diseases affecting the vast majority of the world's population. if europe and the world do not contribute to this, malaria will continue to kill and the millennium development goals, commissioner michel, will not be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi and also as a member of the joint delegation for relations with romania. we must reiterate what this parliament has previously called for and demand decisively that the government in bucharest address the unresolved problem of the pending cases of international adoption involving romanian children who have been waiting for far too long to be able to embrace their new families. to date, despite many promises and expressions of goodwill, nothing has been done and time continues to pass without any formal action being taken by the competent authorities. the children in question have a history of human suffering, often appalling, and are housed in public institutions, which i had the good fortune to visit, which are completely dilapidated, dilapidated and devoid of any human affection or warmth. we must not allow them to be slapped again! meeting the new families has lit up the eyes of these children with a light for a different life and a better future. let us do everything we can to ensure that hope does not turn into disappointment and that these children are not denied their right to a peaceful and happy childhood.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the uen group and the italian delegation to the national alliance. we shall vote in favour of the resolution tomorrow and welcome the signing of the treaty and the subsequent accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. since 1989 all successive romanian governments have made romania's accession to the european union their sole and priority objective. the road has been difficult and tortuous, but there is no doubt that significant progress has been made. especially in recent years the government in bucharest has made giant strides. the commission has taken note of this and in its 1997 report on the fulfilment of the political criteria, it noted the enormous efforts the country has made on the path to reform: the european union is committed to the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and respect for minorities, but also to the reform of public administration. of course, there are still problems, but we must have faith.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation to the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee of this parliament went to bucharest last week. we have had meetings with our colleagues in parliament, with the new head of state, with the prime minister and with other ministers, and our impressions have been generally positive. the romanian side has also made no secret of the difficulties which still exist, and i think this is absolutely positive, since the efforts made so far can be appreciated. a colleague recently said that these countries have not made any progress. that 's simply not true . romania and bulgaria have made great progress. in particular, as regards romania, especially in recent months, after the change of government following the elections in november, these advances have responded to the recent requests of the european parliament - for example when this house voted in november on the report presented by commissioner verheugen. i believe that there must be consistency on the part of the european union: it would be very strange if we were to explain to the romanian and bulgarian public that their countries can become hostages to the council and parliament's inability to strike balances on budgetary matters and the financial perspective. i sincerely believe that we must recognize the commitment of these countries. there will be no shortcuts, the achievement of the standards required for membership depends solely on their capabilities, but we cannot prejudge the objective which these countries are striving to achieve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish romania all the best, where thousands of companies from the region are present, although there are still some delicate points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, human trafficking and the aforementioned problem of childcare. as far as bulgaria is concerned, we must take note of a new fact. yesterday's revelations in a major newspaper by the former director of east german intelligence, who has clarified the truth once and for all: that is, the assassination of the pope was organized, directed, activated by the bulgarian secret services. so, mr president, mr commissioner, let us take this opportunity to ask the bulgarian authorities for the truth! we demand that the archives be opened! to finally tell europe what happened, who armed ali agca's hand, who was trained in bulgaria. we ask what happened, because the blood of that attack is still on our hands and weighs heavily on those responsible for that historic period, which fortunately ended with the fall of the berlin wall. let us remember these grave responsibilities, let us ascertain the truth, let us not turn the page without first making clear the historical truth.
president of the council. mr president, i will be brief. your debate has revealed a number of very useful and very interesting points. i think i have seen in all these speeches that parliament is able to give broad support to the accession of these two countries, bulgaria and romania. think about it for a second. if there had been no prospect of accession for these two countries, where would they be today? would they have followed the evolution they followed? would democracy have made the progress it has made in these two countries? the prospect of accession, the prospect of becoming a full member of the european family, has been a powerful stimulus to reform in these two countries. today, therefore, we must not - as has been said - demoralize or discourage these two countries. that is why the road to membership must now be made concrete. it is also true that there are things to improve and do. some raised the very serious issue of corruption. the governments of both countries - and of one of them in particular - must be committed to fighting corruption even more effectively. these governments must be encouraged, if not forced, to establish more independent and effective judicial systems. i am sure that the commission will be more than an observer: it will act effectively; it will follow developments in those countries; it will not take the easy way out, as the commissioner has rightly said. today, however, we must send an important political signal to bulgaria and romania. we must have some confidence in both countries, while showing them that the way is clear. commitments must be respected. that is why the safeguard measures foreseen for these two countries are somewhat different from those envisaged in the previous enlargement and are not figures of speech. these are practical measures that can be implemented. and they will be applied all the more as your parliament - and i am sure it will - follows developments in both countries. i should like to say a word about the doubts expressed, in particular by mr hänsch, as to the council's willingness to listen to parliament. i think what you said is important. parliament has always been an important ally in the enlargement processes and the council wants to keep this ally for future enlargements. everyone is fully aware of this and it is not a figure of speech when the council makes it clear that parliament's position will be taken fully into account when it expresses its views on the possible implementation of safeguard measures. so i think you can be more reassured than you seem to be. i have already spoken about funding. i think the presidency regrets that the question of the joint declaration has not been settled in a more satisfactory way. but i also repeat what i said: parliament's rights, rest assured, will be preserved as they come under the treaty and parliament's rights will also be preserved under the interinstitutional agreement.
member of the commission. thank you for a very serious and substantive debate. you raised several concerns as to the two countries’ ability to fight corruption and in general to live up to the commitments made in the field of the environment, reform of the judiciary system or the rights of minorities. i share these concerns. that is why it is so important to sustain a positive momentum, to encourage these countries to stick to their reform agendas to the full. the commission will closely monitor progress and keep the european parliament properly informed. if the commission should find it necessary to recommend invoking the safeguard clause we will, as i said in my introductory speech, seriously consider the views of parliament before issuing any such recommendation, in line with the exchange of letters between presidents barroso and borrell. i should like to comment on the rights of minorities. in the case of romania, there was reference to the situation of the hungarian minority. we can note positive developments with regard to this issue, at the level of both the government and the citizens. the hungarians became part of the governing coalition in 2004 and prime minister tariceanu chose budapest as his first destination for a state visit abroad. moreover, since 2000, the hungarians have gained significant rights in the administration, education and justice. in particular, it is provided by law that they have the right to express themselves in their mother tongue before the courts. furthermore, in areas where the hungarian population is above 20% – in more than 1 000 municipalities – the signs are bilingual. the hungarian minority also enjoys educational facilities: the private hungarian university, sapientia, has more than 1 400 students. we welcome this positive trend and will continue to monitor the improvements in this area in our comprehensive monitoring report this autumn. concerning the situation of the roma, another issue related to the rights of minorities, both bulgaria and romania have started to implement the national strategy on the improvement of the situation of the roma, as set out in the union’s phare programme. although the results are still limited, important progress has been made. in particular, the improved access to education and local projects for community development can be counted as successes. the roma inclusion decade was recently launched in sofia, covering several current and future member states and potential candidates. the commission fully supports this important initiative. moreover, we are following the situation of the csango minority in romania very closely. concerning the kozloduy nuclear power plant, i wish to remind you that the need to ensure a high level of nuclear safety is a priority for the union as a whole and its member states. in this context, the need to close down certain nuclear facilities was highlighted in the case of three countries: lithuania, the slovak republic and bulgaria. the framework negotiated with bulgaria is clear and it involves firm and unambiguous respect for the commitments regarding closure on agreed dates. the issue is settled; the case is closed; the dates for closure will not be discussed again. in conclusion, i gather that there is general support for giving assent to the signature of the accession treaty with the two countries, in line with the arrangement outlined in president barroso’s letter to president borrell. in other words, the european parliament is fully associated and the commission is committing itself seriously to considering the views of the european parliament. let me just say how i see the role of the european parliament in regard to the postponement clause. i would call this an ‘extended assent’ vote, which is not legally binding because the treaty does not allow that, but is certainly a weighty political statement once it has been made by the european parliament. there are both quantitative and qualitative reasons for this. in the first place you have to vote more than 20 months before the accession takes place, which is exceptional. in the case of the eu-10, the period was around 12 months and in the case of the enlargement in 1995 it was roughly 6 or 7 months. that is very different from 20 months. secondly, numerous criteria, especially in the field of justice and home affairs, as well as competition, state aid and the environment, are included in the accession treaty itself. therefore it is clearly important to monitor this process and ensure that it is democratic. this respects the spirit of the treaty and european democracy, and it is very important that the european parliament be fully involved in this decision. we are on the eve of a historic decision. i am very glad that we have had sound and productive cooperation with the european parliament. i trust this will be a good omen for future cooperation. now the final outcome is in the hands of the romanians and bulgarians. i hope they succeed and we will support them so that they will be ready to become fully-fledged member states by january 2007.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for 10 minutes and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the agenda includes the commission communication on the integrated package of economic policy guidelines and employment guidelines. i welcome the commissioners and give the floor to commissioner verheugen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the commission why it does not encourage employment, why it does not allow many young people to have jobs, and why it allows older workers, who want to retire as soon as possible, to leave their jobs. many workers would also accept to retire with a smaller sum leaving the job to young people, but so far the employment guidelines force older workers to stay at work even longer, thus denying employment opportunities to young people. can you explain why?
i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation. i would like to personally apologize to the other members who had asked to speak and were unable to do so because of the short time available.
member of the commission. madam president, i think we all see eye to eye on this and that is very encouraging. however, member states have now come to realise the problem. when i went to my first health council as a commissioner and i presented this problem, not all shared the concerns or the sense of urgency that existed at that moment. sometimes that is one of the realities of life: however much we rang the alarm bell, it was not taken seriously, but when who rang it, it was. however, what counts is the fact that the message got through. in the ensuing meetings with ministers they showed that they had already taken steps. tomorrow i will be going to paris, where the french government is organising a conference on three major problems: aids, cancer and influenza. we now have the commitment on the part of the member states. it is true that we do not yet have the legal competence, but we will get it, to a certain extent, with the constitution, because that will give the commission, the community and parliament the authority to act when there is a cross-border threat to health. therefore, we will be able to take some of the measures that mr maaten said i, not mrs fischer boel, can take in the case of animal health. we can currently take emergency measures, but not for humans. the constitution will at least allow us to do this. it is right that even though we do not have the legal competence at the moment, we cannot underestimate the fact that these diseases know no borders and that there is therefore a need for coordinated action by all member states, plus those outside the european union. the commission can offer this coordination and representation when we talk with countries outside the union. i should like to say two things on the issue of poor countries. firstly, there was the vietnam conference on avian flu. the who, the fao, the world organisation for animal health and the european union will deal with avian flu. for the time being it is an animal health problem but we all know that it is a major possible pandemic. we will take measures and find ways to help the countries involved. toward the end of the year i plan to visit the area to see how we can work with those governments. my colleague, mr michel, is preparing a communication on this issue. it will not be the one we approved today but a new one that will also cover the issue of health threats. this is a brief reference today but there will be more coming soon. research on vaccines is going well. the private sector can handle the matter from that point of view. the question is about building capacity. it is an investment that has to be made by the member states and it will be a kind of private and public partnership. it is an investment that will also be of benefit to today’s population because investments are being made to purchase more vaccines to treat the groups at risk now. that will benefit the population and will at the same time be an investment in building future capacity for manufacturing sufficient quantities of vaccines. i can assure you that this is one of my main concerns. it is an issue i keep raising in all international fora, but mostly now within the council. it is an issue taken up by the health ministers. perhaps the next time it will the finance ministers who will have to pay for this investment. i am optimistic, however, that under the circumstances we are on the right track. we have not solved the problem, but we have started the procedure. we are getting there, but we still have a long way to go. time is running out. that is why all the efforts are concentrated. we will take every step possible before the next influenza season next winter.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the 2006 budget has many peculiarities. it is first and foremost a bridge budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we must decide the quantum, the which, the quo modo, that is, we must decide whether we accept resignedly a europe that is limited and powerless or whether we fight together to ensure that financial rigor is combined with the adequacy of the european union's resources. the key exists, but it must be handled with courage; the key is the quality of spending, its targeting towards high value-added sectors and common policies with a european meaning and relevance. it is a challenge which we too face with the 2005 budget. the guidelines adopted unanimously by the committee on budgets - and i take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues and all the political groups for their constructive contribution - are in this direction: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. there is a positive coincidence - i would like to reiterate this to the commissioner - between our proposals and the annual strategic plan presented by the commission. we shall of course see whether we can continue to walk together during the procedure - that is our hope anyway - and we shall see whether the cautious openings made by the council will turn into concrete choices. there are some points on which i frankly do not see how or why we should differ. the first is the strengthening of rural development in relation to direct aid to agriculture; the second is an appropriate level of payments under the structural funds: after many years of legitimate complaints, the expenditure of the states and regions on the structural funds has been greatly accelerated. it was what everyone wanted, and that is why it would be pointless not to provide adequate resources now by means of amending budgets, as was done during the year. the third point is to strengthen the measures for research, innovation, competitiveness and the internationalisation of enterprises. fourthly, the strengthening of information and knowledge society actions. the fifth is the implementation of cultural activities at european level and social policies, the continuation of the union's infrastructure programmes - the large physical infrastructure. the last point - which for me is the first point on the political level - is lifelong learning, education and exchanges of young people. young people must be the main target of our activities, because without young people there is no europe, there is no future. many of you will remember the beautiful sentence written on the walls of the berkeley campus by a student: "i'm interested in the future because that's where i've decided to live my life". we too - here and now - can do something for our young people and their future. who can be satisfied that european youth spending represents only 0.5% of our budget? that is why we must launch a european pact for young people by increasing the instruments that promote knowledge, training, language learning and access to the labour market. discussions are under way with my colleagues on the committee on culture and education, with the commission and with the council on the possibility of extending the erasmus programme to young people in upper secondary education, of launching an erasmus for young entrepreneurs and of following up a pilot project to promote the mobility of young apprentices. but i am also thinking of pilot projects to promote access to credit through ethical and solidarity-based finance and of measures to prepare small businesses for the new scenarios defined by the basel agreements. finally, we must agree that the traditional tasks and priorities of the union must be reconciled with the new priorities for external action. from completing aid to afghanistan and iraq, to supporting countries affected by tsunamis or other natural disasters. how else are we going to maintain a high and adequate level of funding for the mediterranean, latin america, the middle east and the balkans, or for development and humanitarian assistance, the fight against poverty and related diseases, respect for human rights, the fight against terrorism - to name just a few important commitments - while at the same time delivering what we have promised to afghanistan, iraq and south-east asia, without adequate funding under heading 4? we in the committee on budgets believe that there can be a natural, physiological convergence between the budgetary developments and a positive alignment with the commission's position on these points. however, what may appear logical, natural and proper does not always have golden bridges in front of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be enough if we all, on a daily basis, took the trouble to do a small and simple calculation, for which no calculator is needed, it is a very quick operation that always gives the same result: it is not enough to compare the costs of europe with the costs of non-europe. we will do our part and i hope that at the end of our journey, thanks to the contribution of everyone, we will achieve a positive result for the european institutions.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for once, the green group and the european free alliance have some good news in the conclusions of a european council. it doesn't happen often, which is perhaps why president barroso said that the greens are out of the system or anti-system. i do not think so, and i hope to use the years and months that separate us from the end of the legislature to convince him otherwise. we are not particularly pleased to note that the commission has fallen behind on four points at this summit which we considered relatively positive, because it took a different position. the points are: the reform of the stability pact, precise numerical targets for the kyoto protocol, which the commission has unfortunately decided not to mention, the rebalancing of the lisbon strategy in terms of environmental and social sustainability - albeit in a still vague and imprecise way - and a sort of newfound alignment with reality for the bolkestein directive: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the use of the euro. we too believe that the reform of the stability pact has been positive and that it is better able to take account of the general economic situation and the specific national situations. of course, these positive aspects are strongly offset by the fact that the indications remain too vague as regards the quality of spending. the choice, for example, to invest up to 700 million euro a year in the construction of the international experimental thermonuclear reactor, when even the most optimistic do not expect it to be used - if it is possible - before 2050, means not recognizing the urgency of applying the kyoto protocol nor the potential of renewable energies and not investing in this sector. this seems to us to be a grave mistake. in addition, unfortunately, we have to note that during the european council absolutely no account was taken of the fact that a healthy macroeconomic environment must include a tax reform which transfers the tax burden which today is on labour to environmental degradation, thus helping to make regular employment more attractive. that is what jacques delors said in 1992, and we have not made any progress since then. president barroso, commissioner verheughen, i think that there really should be something to be learned from the sad parable of the italian economy and its government, which came to power promising a new economic miracle, cutting taxes, environmental rules, and today the country is ranked last in europe for growth and competitiveness. we believe, mr barroso, that the european union must make a statement, also to win the referendum on the constitution in france and to convince the citizens that there is a european added value, so that the commission's initiative in the framework of the lisbon strategy can be translated into new rules. we are not happy that the commission is content to play a coordinating role. this is not enough for us because it means that the only message that comes from europe to french voters, and not only to them, is that of the bolkestein directive, the patentability of software and laissez-faire in economic and social matters. we're not here! we believe that action is needed in another direction and, above all, we call on the presidency and president barroso to pay more attention to what we, and the commission, have called the 'eco-efficiency revolution'. at the moment this industry, these types of businesses, are growing at five per cent a year and we believe that we need to invest and bet much more on this sector. finally, i agree with what president watson said, with one exception: i do not believe, together with my group, that rushing, pushing, putting our backs to the wall on the accession of bulgaria and romania will help us to convince the bulgarians, the romanians and the europeans of the feasibility of the project.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to say that governments have finally understood that the stability pact must not be a brake on economic growth, or even a factor blocking it. the outcome of the brussels european council underlined the need for europe to make more flexible the rules that paralyse the economy with an overly rigid and schematic interpretation of the stability pact, which eventually brought the development of many member states under control. it was necessary that with the worsening of the world economy and with the new international scenarios europe should finally decide to overcome its inability to look to the future with the necessary flexibility. it is no longer possible to think of europe as competitive on the international scene when its growth rate is half that of the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome the broad consensus reached by the european council on the reform of the pact and emphasize the agreement reached on structural reforms in defining the adjustment policy that states will have to pursue in order to comply with the pact parameters in the event of a deficit being exceeded. the pension system, the research and innovation sector, training and major structural and infrastructure works represent investment commitments which are not always accounting compatible with the limits expressed by the parameters. while there is no doubt that the pact must be applied fairly in the countries that have signed it, it is equally true that the european union of 25 economies, characterised by considerable heterogeneity and diversity, needs a common framework that is more enriched and articulated, allowing a better understanding of the differences, without denying the objectives indicated in the benchmarks. i would remind mr watson - who i listened to very carefully - that there is no economic strategy because there is no political strategy and because, faced with the new frontiers of this century, we are still using the economic and financial rules of the last century. (the president asked the speaker to finish) mr president, other members have exceeded their time to a greater extent, so the rules must be enforced by all or none.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stability pact agreement has some positive aspects, but there are still major concerns. first of all, it is essential to strengthen rather than weaken the commission's role in the management of the pact, both on the accounting side and on the investment side, that is to say on both stability and growth. secondly, it must be clear that the new pact is for growth, it is for growth of the economy and not for growth of deficits: the two things cannot be linked as national governments like the current italian government seem to do. we therefore call on the european institutions to work to avoid dangerous renationalizations and to work with determination for a growth of the community spirit. otherwise the future of the union itself will be grim if a community approach is not maintained, both in the application of the pact and of the other main policies, first and foremost the fundamental lisbon strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 march in brussels there was a huge demonstration by trade unions and the peace movement against the bolkestein directive, against liberalism and war, in favour of a social europe. in the face of the paradox we are in, characterized by a strong currency with a weak economy and a society in crisis; in the face of the crisis of the maastricht system and the lisbon strategy, in our opinion this event - attended by tens of thousands of workers from all over europe, and i emphasize all of it, including the new eastern countries - has given rise to the clear demand for a necessary change. and this is despite the idea that some have of a two-tier europe, that is to say, of internal dumping, that is to say, of the europe of the bolkestein directive. the demonstration, on the other hand, indicated the need for a harmonization of rights, naturally upwards. we need a europe which rejects the bolkestein directive - the disastrous working time directive - and which is able to break the cage of monetarist liberalism on the left and to boost - not reduce - investment in quality, rights, development, employment and the environment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want to try to translate this aspiration into action in this house by our proposals and by helping to bring into parliament that great passion which animated the streets of brussels, to which this parliament cannot but give a response.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our debates are often repetitive, so i should like to start with a piece of news which i read yesterday and which struck me very hard. a few days ago, in huang-kan-tun in southern china, there was a popular uprising which unfortunately also caused two victims to the brutal police repression. it was a revolt by the entire population of that village against a recently installed chemical plant which has produced in a short time a very serious pollution of the air, water and soil. what do i mean by this news? i mean that now, even in these new economic powers, as a result of industrial growth, new environmental, ecological, health and social issues are emerging. this clearly indicates our role in the future international division of labour: we can design and sell the technologies that will enable these countries to grow without repeating our mistakes of the past, like pollution and social repression. in view of all this, i think the outcome of the summit is positive, because it has really relaunched the lisbon strategy on the basis of the interdependence of the three pillars, it has relaunched the european union's global role as a leader in the field of sustainable development and it has envisaged a very ambitious and important kyoto 2 protocol in this very sense. i think that the political reform of the management of the lisbon strategy is particularly good, in accordance with the following principle: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. parliament too must play its part, and that has been made clear. we shall do better, mr president, if, as you have requested, you see the cooperation which has been developing in recent times between the institutions confirmed in the task which we have to perform: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think one of the main areas where this challenge will be posed will be the reach directive. the cooperation required, i am sure, will be there in the coming months to achieve this result.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we think the decisions of the spring summit are good, but we know that the facts will be the judge of that. there are great opportunities and also risks in what we decide. we are all entrusting the political decision-making body with new responsibilities and we must work to ensure that these responsibilities are integrated and not dissociated. integrated directives and national reform programmes must not be made up of generic words but of real, convergent and measurable choices. the flexibility of the pact must be made more and more legible and managed exclusively for growth purposes, according to firm common criteria. in this connection, a delicate italian case has been opened and i would like to say that we ask the government, the commission, the council and eurostat to do their job with seriousness, transparency and loyalty: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. with the decisions of the spring summit we will no longer be in the situation we were in before: if we have no europe, we have less europe. that is why the choices that can ensure the integration and therefore the role of the commission in the coordination of macroeconomic policies, the improvement of the statistical bases, the involvement of the national parliaments, the real integration of the national and european programming instruments, the strength of the union budget, infrastructure and research investments, the european dimension and so on are very important. we'll have to test ourselves on all this. for now, however, i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency on its achievements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the citizens of bulgaria who see this vote as the culmination of their desire to join the european union. in addition to congratulating the citizens and the present government on this achievement, i would like to recall the important commitment of the previous executives and in particular of the government of ivan kostov, which started negotiations with the european union at the first, most difficult, moment. finally, i wish that the pensioners of bulgaria, together with the young people, can build a better world together with all of us in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, also with regard to the vote in favour of romania's accession to the european union, i would like to express my congratulations and my satisfaction to the romanian people and their government for this important step towards a better future. i would particularly like to stress how important it is that all citizens, both elderly and retired, and young people in romania, should join the governments in making concrete progress towards collective well-being, rather than limiting themselves, as many governments in europe and the rest of the world do, to many promises followed by few concrete deeds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am, like most of my colleagues, in favour of the inclusion of romania and bulgaria and full membership, but all at the right time and with the right rules. i therefore abstained in both cases because i believe that the criteria we have set are not yet being met in this case. we have problems with this in general: the stability pact criteria are not being met. the standards applied to turkey are not those we had originally agreed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think we're not being very predictable and consistent. that's the reason i'm not going.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all the peoples and ethnic groups in the balkans, who, after a painful history, place their hopes entirely in the eu, are undoubtedly european. but a closer look reveals that many of these balkan countries still have old ropes. the old nomenclature is largely responsible for the fact that the promised reforms often only take place on paper. there is little serious action against corruption. the gap between rich and poor is widening. the number of illiterates is increasing in some areas. the situation of minorities, especially the roma, is unsatisfactory. elections are rigged by bribery and sometimes even violence. all eu institutions should look much more closely. you must not be misled by the representatives of these old rope societies. let's take some time and check more carefully! that is my appeal when it comes to eu membership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the balkans, we cannot think of a stable situation except within the union. but the building of the union can only be achieved through a great popular drive, which also in the balkans must be the fruit of a political process of truth and reconciliation, which supports the criminal process of the hague tribunal - important yes, but not capable of ensuring by itself that everyone becomes aware of who did what in the war of the early 1990s. the scenario we are dealing with today is one that may represent the reconstitution of the context in which the violence unfolded and in which victims and perpetrators can be compared. only by this deep comparison can you turn the page without anyone being able to open it again. the building of a democracy needs this step because it implies mutual respect and trust; the union needs a great determination to look to the future and cannot be held hostage to the past.
i am very concerned about the situation in the middle east, and i am very concerned about the situation in the middle east, and i am very concerned about the situation in the middle east. the report puts the un on the same level as nato and other organisations and institutions, and paves the way for the theory of preventive military intervention, which violates international law. it equates military interventions with humanitarian ones, implicitly relegating humanitarian development aid to a functional role subordinate to military and security policies. it also affirms the complementarity between nato and the european union, ignoring the subordinate role of the european union within nato and the need to promote an independent and non-aggressive european foreign policy. finally, it fails to say that only the application of international law, un resolutions and the end of military occupations are the conditions for a just and lasting peace in the middle east. the european union's support for nonproliferation should also include a call for israel to accede to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join the many colleagues in thanking the rapporteurs for two important reports which present a rich overview of european foreign, security and defence policy, of the progress made and propose broadly convincing guidelines for an effective presence of europe as a global actor on the world stage. the constitutional treaty will strengthen europe's role with innovations that guarantee greater integration and cooperation, and i think it is right to anticipate, as they say, a collaboration between parliament, the commission and the council. europe's central objective is to promote effective multilateralism, which means ensuring security but also the expansion of democracy, human rights, development opportunities and growth: in short, to govern globalisation by giving priority to political, civil and economic means, not excluding the use of military means as an extreme resource, with the consequent readiness to use force in a legitimate framework. the legitimacy of the un system, however, must be restored, as mr brok's report rightly says. a shaky authority, among other things, weakened by the doctrine and practice of preventive and unilateral war. this doctrine and practice must be condemned by europe, and i believe that the resumption of cooperation between europe and the united states must be based on this principle. in this sense, i find the support of many colleagues - including commissioner ferrero-waldner - for a european seat at the united nations, which would represent a qualitative leap forward in the relationship between the european union and the united nations, extremely valuable. in this context, i would like to stress one priority, that of the israeli-palestinian conflict and the crisis in the middle east. we have rightly identified new opportunities and new hopes. i would, however, like to express a word of concern: the same meeting between bush and sharon revealed a rather stark contrast on the issue of israeli settlement expansion policy, which in fact announces an annexation of east jerusalem and part of the west bank; if this policy were to continue, hopes for peace would quickly be dashed. if even the american administration is now making its critical voice heard, europe must add its own, forcefully and clearly, to stop choices that risk jeopardizing any hope of peace and détente.
i declare the debate closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report (b6-0163/2005). the following questions are addressed to the council.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, apart from some perplexities and concerns, we think the resolution is a good one, since it must take a common position. i would, however, like to express my doubts as to how it can be accepted and applied in the individual states. i have heard the liberal democrat member speak before, and i would like to know what the criteria are for judging tolerance and intolerance in deciding who can speak on television. i am sorry, for example, that in italy a resolution on cultural diversity - the title of which i think everyone can agree - will be used as an instrument against a political party which, although not represented by me, is easily identifiable in the president of the council. several members of the committee on culture, even those who rarely come to participate in its work, use projects like this for internal political polemics that have little to do with the fact that culture is not commodifiable, it is not a market. in addition, when it comes to cultural diversity, there is a lot of talk about minority languages, but i have the impression that these languages are rarely protected. i would like to ask the commission how many european languages are in danger of disappearing: i am thinking of catalan, basque, the languages of my own country, lombard, piedmontese, ligurian, venetian. it is one thing to think in the abstract about linguistic diversity, but it is quite another to protect the languages that globalization is trying to make disappear. so, beyond the resolution which we, as the northern league and as the independent democrats, support, i am concerned about the possible use of a document like this in the individual national states. i would like to know, above all, by what means and with what financial means the union will demand that individual languages be protected, so that the measure we are about to adopt is not just a generic proposal but has real repercussions on the ground. finally, i would urge the commission to draw up a map of the european languages which are in danger of dying out, while parliament is silent and occupied with other matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three amendments have been tabled on paragraph 32, which are identified as identical. in fact, amendment no 13 differs from the other two by only one word. however, the difference is relevant, because it is one thing to talk about the whole of china and quite another to talk about china. i therefore ask that amendment no 13 be voted on separately from amendments nos 1 and 10.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is really necessary that parliament and the union should do much more than has been done so far to defend the right of self-determination of peoples, especially in cases as flagrant as that of the saharawi people. although the issue dates back to the period of spanish decolonization, little attention is paid to western sahara: it is not about big interests and it is not about big numbers, it is not about the bankers any more and it is not about any particular geopolitical appetite; the sahrawi people have not carried their struggle for self-determination out of the desert, have not resorted to degrading acts of terrorism, have not served the interests of powerful allies who were once opposed to them. europe must therefore commit itself to immediate humanitarian aid for the saharawi, but above all it must activate the means of sanctions against the kingdom of morocco, so that it respects the right of self-determination of this kind and proud people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to rule 166 of the rules of procedure and, in the alternative, to rule 167. in my opinion, the question of lampedusa could not be included in the debate because it concerns bilateral agreements between italy and libya, the application of italian laws which are not in conflict with the treaties of the union; it is also important to bear in mind that italy is not burma, china or guantanamo, but a member state whose dignity is being degraded and whose institutions, armed forces and police forces are being prejudicially condemned. the latter, on the other hand, have been generously engaged for years, far beyond their institutional duties, in the enormous task of defending the legality of the entry of foreign nationals into italy - and thus into europe, as established by the schengen agreements - not so much in an attempt to arrest and expel the slave traders, but above all in a work of humanitarian assistance and of very difficult - if not impossible - identification of illegal immigrants. i have seen it myself and i invite my colleagues to check it out. i express my indignation - and i also call on all my italian colleagues to be sensitive - at this contemptible attempt to insult italian national dignity and to comment on our sovereignty.
i am very much in favour of the commission's proposal, but i would like to point out that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as everyone knows, there is no community policy on immigration: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. i have just recently begun to speak to the house and have had the opportunity to represent this parliament on several occasions in informal meetings of the relevant ministers. it is clear that the attack on the italian government is political and instrumental at this particular moment. in italy there is a law - the turkish-neapolitan law - which was introduced by a left-wing government and not modified by the current centre-right government, whose article 10 is used to deal with this problem. the court of justice has been called upon to give its opinion, and it would therefore be more appropriate to wait for that decision and not to politically prosecute a government which is facing a continuing emergency with the landings of thousands of poor people in a small area with few reception facilities, with the not remote risk of indirectly favouring human traffickers and terrorists. any possible rescue at sea is carried out by the armed forces, and every individual request and position is scrutinized by the law enforcement agencies and the relevant associations. no one is mistreated, no one is detained, in fact hundreds of asylum seekers are easily removed from reception centres, making them untraceable throughout italy and perhaps europe. anyone who denies that organizations like unhcr are embarrassed by this attack on italy is lying, but the official records of the italian ministry of the interior prove otherwise. let's go visit all the reception centers in europe, why not? and then we check the situation everywhere. we must take the problem seriously and in a european spirit, and avoid transferring to a legitimate government a hypothetical political process which could be transferred to any other member state or government tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief because i wish only to reiterate some of the ideas already contained in the resolution. the right to combat illegal immigration is undeniable, but it is equally true that this right must be exercised in compliance with human rights and international conventions, avoiding mass expulsions and the indifference of the countries of entry to the future fate of these people, especially when they are returned to countries which have not signed international conventions, such as libya. these are the two points raised in the lampedusa case, not by the media, but by the high commissioner for refugees and the strasbourg court itself, which asked italy to clarify its position by the beginning of may. we are in a situation where i believe that we as europeans have an element of prestige which is recognised by countries which do not respect human rights, namely that we respect them or try to do so. please don't let this element of civilization be lost.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. it is a broad report, full of agreeable statements, sometimes superficial and marked by a certain "goodwill", but at the same time very careful - and in this i disagree with what van hecke said - not to annoy the economic and political partners of the european union. we can say that this relationship is very weak with the strong and, too often, very distracted towards the weak. there are many examples: the european union has not yet joined the european union and therefore should have been included in this document, but it does not want to disturb business with turkey. as for iraq, there is a reluctance to identify american responsibilities in the treatment of prisoners: there is virtually no mention of abu ghraib. when we talk about colombia, we do not criticize the role of the government and its relations with the paramilitary forces. the israeli government is invited but not explicitly condemned for building the wall. moreover, there is no mention of the lack of respect for freedom of information in algeria. i would therefore say that in some ways this is a document which represents an opportunity not fully exploited and, if it remains in its present form, the european left group will not be able to support it.
mr president, almost everyone has complimented the author of this report and i can only add my own. it is logical that in such a wide-ranging report, which deals with the problems of 70 countries, there may be some points on which we do not entirely agree. but contrary to what has been said by the european left, i would like to emphasize some of the rapporteur's courageous positions towards the great economic and political powers, against which this parliament too often takes an ambiguous, diplomatic and, let us say, cynical realpolitik position in order to save trade. i think of china: the commission and the council have announced their readiness, if not their intention, to lift the arms embargo. it is true that some progress has been made in respecting human rights and it is true that china remains a leading player in the fight against terrorism and that it exerts useful pressure on north korea to stop developing nuclear weapons. but that is not enough and the report acknowledges that. and above all, i would add, china must not be allowed to exploit the differences between the european union and the united states on this issue. i am also thinking of russia, which in the tragic chechen crisis and in the general management of the country cannot avoid initiatives which have little in common with our concept of democracy. the report also takes a clear and precise position on this subject. i would like to conclude by saying that i wholeheartedly support the idea which i believe is at the heart of this excellent report: no economic or commercial motivation should lead the european union to deny or downplay the existence of human rights violations.
mr president, while we are discussing a very important resolution which will be voted on tomorrow, a few hours ago we received news that yesterday a hut in a roma camp in the province of naples was set on fire. one child has died and the father and another child are hospitalized in very serious physical conditions. on hearing this news, the rom delegation from several italian cities, who have been here for two days to meet and raise awareness among parliamentarians, immediately informed me: she was saddened, but said that, unfortunately, these are things that keep happening. and they happen where? in italy, in the heart of old europe, where these populations, most of whom have not been nomads for a long time, are concentrated in fields without water, electricity and services. one of them said today: "the first time i slept in a container was when i arrived in italy; "i had a home where i came from". the rights of the european union stop at the edge of the nomadic camps and the italian government continues, through collective expulsions, to free itself - let us use this term - from the roma population. this makes it impossible to educate children and get them to school. there are twenty-year-olds who were born in italy and who do not have an italian identity card. recently other children born in italy have been attributed to a yugoslav nation, without knowing which, it doesn't even exist anymore. many roma citizens living in my country have an identity card when they have one with the address of the nomadic camp and in parentheses "roma camp". it is clear that in this situation they will not be able to find work and will be increasingly discriminated against. i would like to conclude by saying that tomorrow's vote is extremely important, but it will be even more so if it is put into practice, particularly by the european commission, since, let us not forget, the commissioner who should be dealing with this problem is an italian, mr frattini, who, on the other hand, seems to me to be very similar to the monkey who said: "i can't see, i can't hear, i can't speak".
mr president, i speak on behalf of the new psi to support the just demands of the many roma i have had the good fortune to know in my years of social and political involvement. the new psi socialists hope that the date of 8 april, scheduled as international roma day, will not only be a celebration but above all an opportunity to raise public awareness of the current problems of europe's largest ethnic minority. i would like to mention one aspect which we consider to be particularly important: the commission has recently made commitments, but unfortunately we have to note that in some member states and candidate countries roma children are often segregated in schools for the mentally disabled or in differential classes, which obviously increases the discomfort and social exclusion. on the contrary, full access to mainstream education should be provided, as school is the first means of promoting full integration and socialisation. today's vote is an unjustified one, totally incompatible with the principles of equality, tolerance and respect which are at the basis of the common sense promoted by the eu. each one, in his own area of competence, must make an effort to go from words to deeds.
mr president, i ask you to be patient, because i have something to say that will be counter-productive. like any ethno-cultural minority in the union, whether indigenous, such as the sardinians, the corsican, the basques or the gaels, or regularly hosted, the roma ethnic group also deserves every consideration. but just like the communities mentioned, the roma must also be subject to the rules of civil coexistence and mutual respect for the social order. i am not aware, at least not from firsthand experience, whether or not roma are integrated in romania and bulgaria. but in my country, where the law enforcement agencies cannot enter the nomadic camps, where health care is not possible, where health authorities cannot monitor the situation, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health care system is not functioning properly, where the health system is not functioning properly, where the health system is not functioning properly, where the health system is not functioning properly, where the health system is not functioning properly, where the health system is not functioning properly. it is impossible to tackle school drop-outs, to census residents, to assess the conditions of children and the legitimacy of the state, and it is impossible to monitor the respect of gender and human rights, and i could go on for hours. the commission wants measures to support employment of roma. these and other intolerable privileges are accompanied by five motions for resolutions tabled by the far-left epp. we are convinced that we represent millions of citizens of the union in this respect, and we reject both the commission's statement and the motions for resolutions, which are demented, rhetorical and racist against european citizens. i would like to ask the commissioner to explain to the commissioner why he is asking for the respect of duties and only secondarily for the enjoyment of rights. you should explain to them why you do not give them priority in housing and employment or guarantee any impunity. we are here to represent, by means of a tax levied on the pockets of those who are regularly counted, first the interests and sentiments of these citizens of europe and then, and only then, to pontificate on phantom discrimination.
mr president, i would simply like to draw the attention of the whole house to a very serious fact: the 40 kurdish citizens who have been on hunger strike for 30 days are asking to be accommodated in belgium, on the basis of a request for political asylum. some of these people are pouring in conditions of extreme gravity. i have sent a public letter to the ministry of the interior asking it to apply subsidiary protection which, also in connection with the third european convention on human rights of 15 december 1980, could allow these people, even in the absence of political asylum, to remain in belgium for the time being. tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. a delegation of members of parliament will go to the église des minimes to show solidarity with these 40 kurds who are risking their lives.
mr president, i am expressing my strongest protest against the serious censorship which the european parliament has carried out by preventing the film submission from being shown in the press room on 20 april. this is something i find intolerable. the film itself has been subject to months of censorship and terror by islamic fundamentalists, who are responsible for the murder of the director theo van gogh. i call on the president of the european parliament to lift this ban, which is not in the interest of our parliament and is contrary to the principle of freedom of expression and, in particular, the principle of freedom of artistic expression, on which i believe our coexistence and the legal order of the european union are based.
mr. president, something is wrong. how is that possible? i have learned from mr agnoletto that a minority of kurds are in serious difficulty here and are seeking asylum in belgium. but the kurds, like the armenian survivors - if there are any left - are they not a turkish minority? and if they are persecuted, how can the union, in violation of the foundations of the treaties, have started the process of accession of turkey? i call on the commission and the president to be vigilant and to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey.
mr president, i know that the european union and our parliament send observers to monitor the regularity of elections in various parts of the world. i would ask the president of parliament to ask the european commission and the council whether they do not think it appropriate to send observers to the next italian parliamentary elections in may 2006, because we are the first to have to comply with the rules of democracy. you know that the last elections in italy three weeks ago were, according to the statements of many italian magistrates, marred by irregularities and fraud in the preparation of the electoral lists. i would like to see this not happen again and i would be very happy to have an answer, given that these are frauds against the present italian government.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. i agree with the excellent work done by the rapporteur and i very much appreciate the work of the bilbao agency. the rapporteur cited figures, but the fact is that most occupational diseases and accidents are preventable and that they particularly affect the most vulnerable: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. i would add that there is some risk that the situation will worsen, because of the policy choices that are being presented to the european union. if competition between countries, instead of driving innovation and safety, meant a relaxation of protective measures or a worsening of working hours, this would increase accidents and illnesses. if the bolkestein services directive were to introduce social dumping through the country of origin rule, it would worsen accidents and illnesses. there are important changes in mr hughes's proposal, especially the involvement of the social partners, that is, the workers themselves, who are the victims and the protagonists of safety and health at work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the agency, which has been operating in bilbao for almost a decade, is an important institution for the eu, whose work has already had a concrete and positive impact on the conditions of workers in europe. the present report, for which i commend the rapporteur, stephen hughes, is supported by us greens. it is very important to us that this agency for safety and health at work in bilbao, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in dublin and the european centre for the promotion of vocational training in thessaloniki should have the same legal status and better and better instruments. the impulses emanating from these european agencies are more important than ever for europe today. we must not forget that the social and ecological pillars of europe are often threatened with collapse. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. it is not enough to make a statement of principle. we need the research and tools that this agency is developing to develop standards, to design legislative measures and to monitor whether these established rules are being followed. we greens therefore expect the agency in bilbao to also receive the necessary funds to be able to work efficiently.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the question by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the commission on the commission's strategy for the first conference of the parties on persistent organic pollutants (pops) (o-0042/2005 b6-0171/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, i agree with almost everything mrs doyle has said and i would like to say that with the entry into force of the stockholm convention, 12 substances which are among the most dangerous in the world will be phased out. however, in order to meet our expectations, the convention must be implemented correctly and must gain momentum by covering new substances over time. many important issues are to be discussed and decided at the first conference of the parties, which will lay the foundations for the future development of the convention. the general objective is to ensure that the decisions of the first conference will allow the effective implementation and further development of the convention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances. the commission has already identified other substances - mrs doyle said they were limited to three - and as far as i know that has not changed so far. in any event, the debate is continuing on the timetable and the format for submitting proposals and i believe and hope that the european union will come up with good proposals at the first conference of the parties. secondly, and very importantly, there must be greater progress in phasing out the use and release into the environment of the twelve persistent organic pollutants included in the current list, and in particular ddt, which you very rightly said is still necessary to combat malaria in some developing countries. but the first conference must facilitate the reduction of dependence on ddt by such means as promoting research into alternative means and providing technical and financial support. the first conference should also set out the course for further measures to reduce the risks from the use and disposal of pcbs and to reduce and prevent the release into the environment of organic pollutants arising as by-products, in particular chlorinated dioxins and furans. a third key objective of crucial importance is that the first conference should complete the institutional framework necessary for the practical implementation of the convention. in particular, it should make substantial progress in developing appropriate compliance mechanisms and procedures. as regards point 9 of the resolution, i think it is the commission's duty to include members of the european parliament in such missions, and i can say that from the experience i have had on two occasions, one in buenos aires and one last week in new york at the conference on sustainable development, where members of parliament also took part, we had excellent cooperation and managed not only by exchanging views but also advice, opinions and in particular political opinions on certain issues, to advance the issues on which we were in these conferences. at the same time, we have succeeded, with the three institutions, in giving a very good and uniform image of the european union to the outside world, in particular by using the press conferences, where we have appeared together and have been united, united in our views, and thus improved the image of the european union. we have had substantial positive results and results in terms of communication. i therefore consider it essential that the members of the european parliament should be involved, and i always think that it is extremely useful and i recommend it to my other colleagues in the european commission.
member of the commission. mr president, we could of course promote financing with regard to the millennium development goals and the possibilities this provides. on pops, the commission’s proposal was ambitious, but so far the council has not agreed to it. we wanted a council decision under article 300 of the treaty, i.e. by qualified majority. the poorer result of the council conclusions of 10 march is due to the fact that these were adopted differently, through unanimity. the commission regrets this approach. however, the process will be a long one. there are political, economic and social considerations to be taken into account, but we shall pursue our line of argument.
at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
mr president, pollution of the groundwater is caused by percolation from the surface, by the use of chemicals in agricultural activities, by organic and inorganic pollution due to the surface runoff of waste water and civil waste water, whether free or channeled, and last but not least, by the inadequate waterproofing of waste collection basins. unfortunately, landfills are taking place in several regions of the union, both in the newly acceded countries and in the oldest ones, such as italy, and they are causing serious and uncontrolled pollution of groundwater. the introduction of threshold values for pollutants at the discretion of the states is a serious step backwards in environmental protection. the commission's gradual approach does not mean that we are acting within the limits of national prerogatives, as we would like to do in many other cases, but it does harm the environment and consumers. the latter can perhaps judge from a label on bottles of mineral water whether or not to buy that product but they cannot do the same for vegetables and cereals. i therefore hope that the directive will be amended in the course of the legislative process and that the thresholds for pollutants will be identical for all the member states, ensuring the same levels of toxicity to man and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the love of many european citizens for europe is unfortunately beginning to wane. in italy this is certainly due to the changeover from the lira to the euro, which has raised the prices of all products, leading consumers to believe that they are spending less in the new currency than in lira. i would ask you, mr president, to convey to the council and the commissioner responsible my proposal to solve this problem: make it compulsory to indicate the price in both euro and old currency; the latter should be twice as large as the euro. i am convinced that this would help to rediscover the love for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that the directive we are about to vote on is of great importance for italy and the member states, because it can overcome certain rigidities in the directive currently in force, which lead to a large number of infringement procedures. two brief remarks: the first concerns the quality of bathing water. the commission proposal defines three types of standards for classifying these waters. each category is based on precise microbiological parameters derived from research carried out by the world health organisation, which correspond to a high level of protection of human health. the adoption of the 'sufficient quality' category would extend the legal validity of the 1976 bathing water directive without meeting the minimum value requirements laid down by the world health organisation. i therefore hope that the house will vote to retain the three initial categories and i propose that the date for achievement be the original date of 2011.
member of the commission. mr president, i have noted with interest the points made in the motion for a resolution and the remarks made today. above all, i would like to thank you for the overall support for the commission’s strategy for the second meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention. it is important that the european union sends a coherent message to the other parties to the convention and that, at the same time, we demonstrate our commitment to its principles and rules. with regard to the question posed by the last speaker on the proposed directive on access to justice, the commission stresses that the ratification by the community of the aarhus convention prior to the adoption of the directive on access to justice does not imply that the directive is no longer useful or opportune. the aarhus convention has broken new ground in the way the public is involved in decision-making relating to the environment. however, in the end its credibility will depend on the way in which it is applied. that is why the commission considers that work for the years to come should concentrate on the implementation of the convention. the parties and signatories not only need to put in place or adopt administrative procedures, they also need to gain experience, exchange it with other parties and learn from practice. as mr florenz observed, they have to sign and ratify it. the present situation is that 24 member states signed it in 1998 and one country is ready to sign. of those 24 member states, 19 have ratified it so far. those that have not – according to our information – are all in the process of putting implementing legislation in place. i count on your continued support in this ambitious endeavour.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the agenda calls for the debate on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on the cinematographic heritage and the competitiveness of related industrial activities (com (2004) 171-c5-0133/2004-2004/0066 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr gyula hegyi (a6-0101/2005). i give the floor to commissioner viviane reding, on behalf of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the excellent work done by the rapporteur, who is clearly sensitive to the specific problems of the matter. the cinematographic heritage, by its capacity to represent the different national and local cultural realities and to disseminate european historical memory - as well as its pedagogical function - is a useful tool for consolidating the european dimension of culture and common historical identity. it is no coincidence that in some member states the cinematographic product is already legally recognised as a cultural good. it is therefore essential to harmonise legislation on the deposit, preservation and distribution of european cinematographic works, using first and foremost the exchange of good practice. the use of new technologies is also an essential step towards rationalising costs and thus making film production more competitive, not only in the strict sense but also in all related activities such as collection, cataloguing and restoration. i also agree with the rapporteur on the need to take care of the disabled - by ensuring that they have a better use of the works in the archives - and on the need to preserve all cinematographic works, and therefore not only those which receive public funds, as provided for in the commission's proposal: all these works have contributed to the construction of the history of european cinema, reflecting the various trends and influences in different eras. in conclusion, i would like to make a proposal to the commissioner, mrs reding, which, on this day, 9 may, the day of europe, has a symbolic meaning: the establishment of a european thematic film library to ensure a careful selection of cinematographic works relating to historical events and events related to the evolution of the community project. the cinema, therefore, as a mediation tool to promote a more informed approach of the citizens to information and knowledge of europe and its institutions.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to express my joy simply because it is rare in politics for there to be such harmony between the various institutions. parliament, the commission and the council are on the same page and rightly so, because it is a question of preserving our common memory, of building on our roots, of ensuring that the rich cinematographic heritage of more than a hundred years is preserved for future generations, but also, and in the same way - because it is our heritage of tomorrow - the cinema that is created today and that which will be created tomorrow. it is a duty we owe to our cultures and it is good that all forces should come together to take action in this direction. i fully agree with the rapporteur and with the members who said that accessibility was important. so it's not just the memory, it's also the public's access to that memory. this is why the commission is investing in search engines and research in general to ensure better preservation of old films. but we also need to have access to this accessible memory and here too i agree with parliament that we should teach our younger generations to read images. it is not logical that young people should learn to decipher words and read numbers, but that they should not have access to the images which make up almost the whole of their environment, that they should only receive them passively. my theory is this. european films require a voluntary approach. we cannot be passive, let ourselves be taken in by a european film, we must read it, and to read it, we must learn to read. we must therefore ensure that our new generations learn to read our cinema. we have already had several pilot projects in schools, but this is not enough; we have to generalize this pilot formula. mr president, i am really pleased to see such a fine harmony in this house on 9 may. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. i would like to add a word to this common future on state aid. although i find this speech absolutely superfluous, i want to do it because i get questions about this all the time and i think i have to answer them. there is no danger, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission will touch on state aid to the cinema. and so do not get excited every time the commission does its work of analysing the situation on the ground and do not think that this work is aimed at eliminating anything that has been achieved. so far we have analysed many, if not all, of the schemes for aid to national cinemas. we have always given our consent and we will continue to do so. everyone has to do their job. but i am convinced - and i pledge myself to you - that european cinema needs help. we'll keep helping him. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank commissioner reding, as well as you. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the last item on the agenda is the commission's statement on the state of play of the negotiations between the union and mercosur. i give the floor to commissioner viviane reding, on behalf of the commission.
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport and tourism, which i have the honour of chairing, is following with great attention and some concern the process of implementing the trans-european transport networks (tens) defined by the guidelines adopted jointly by the council and parliament in april 2004. the concerns stem from the fact that there are serious delays in the implementation of the projects which constitute the first definition of the rtds - agreed in 1996 - and from the identification of the main cause of these delays in the lack of funding. decision no 884/2004, which adapted the definition of tens in the twenty-five member union, suggests that there are large financial needs: at least eur 225 billion for the 30 projects between now and 2020, of which at least eur 140 billion will be spent in the period covered by the 2007-13 financial perspective. it is essential that these needs be met now, if possible even before the 2007-2013 financial perspective is drawn up, in order to avoid unbearable frustrations for the union and the member states in the years ahead, given the strategic value of the trans-european network. strategic for the internal and external competitiveness of the union's economy, which must make full use of the benefits of the single market: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to accept the amendments to the directive in the light of the new situation in the community. strategic for the sustainability of european transport, as priority projects are mainly rail, maritime and inland waterway projects. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. social and cultural integration which is neither forced nor impeded, but which needs efficient links between all parts of the union in order to allow opportunities for communication, exchange, recognition and enhancement of identity and diversity to be expressed. if, as i hope, the commission and the council will confirm here today the awareness of the strategic value of the implementation of the rtd, the resulting assurances requested by parliament concern: the adequacy of the community co-financing allocation for the entire network for all 30 projects to be implemented by 2020 and the appropriateness of community co-financing being used over time and space - in order to give a boost to much larger funding - of the member states as well as, where possible, to private participation in public-private partnership schemes. community rules and decisions to facilitate this - from the eurovignette directive to the creation of a special loan guarantee fund - are necessary corollaries. it is in this context that, having been informed of the budget for rtd of eur 20.3 billion proposed by the commission in the 2007-2013 financial perspective - a budget which would guarantee an average of 15% of the funding for the transeuropean transport networks - the committee, in my view, wants to know from the council whether it considers that amount capable of guaranteeing the necessary and sufficient community co-financing for all 30 projects. in other words: whether the council can ensure that the member states are able to finance, from their own resources, public or private, the remaining 85% of the average of the planned financing or whether a larger share of community intermediation is not to be assumed. the same question is addressed to the commission, which is also asked to indicate the time profile of absorption of community co-financing by the various projects, which presupposes knowledge of their current and planned authorization and technical progress, and how it intends to distribute the budget available in time and space. the council and the commission are then asked a question containing a suggestion, an explicit recommendation: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of national and regional railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the establishment of a european network of railway stations, the european network of railway stations, etc. there are many virtuous consequences to this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conditionality of community confidentiality and the necessary approval of bilateral international treaties would then force the member states to explicitly assume responsibility also for internal routes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how can we fail to complete, to take an example i know well, the internal route between turin and trieste if the union guarantees the timely completion of the frejus tunnel on the turin-lyon route on the french side and the trieste-divaccia on the italian-slovenian side? i hope that this recommendation will be accepted and adopted by the council and the commission, and i conclude by asking the commission to provide a clear and transparent definition of the 48 crossborder sections. i am looking forward to your answers, commissioner and minister.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i thank the rapporteurs who have preceded me and naturally confirm the positive opinion of the libe committee on the measure. i think it is necessary to add a few things: the ease and readiness with which terrorists were able to strike in september 2001 and in other circumstances has created the need to extend security checks not only to airports and borders but also to ports, which experience a considerable influx of goods and people on a daily basis. as regards the proposal by the council and parliament to include controls on ferries carrying goods, as rapporteur for the libe committee, i would like to point out that increased controls at ports would also help to curb the trade in counterfeit goods, drug trafficking and a wide range of activities used by criminal organisations. this is my view, which was tabled as an amendment in the libe committee, and it was not accepted, nor were other amendments calling for the extension of checks to persons, in addition to goods and vehicles. i have to say that i found this rejection incomprehensible, since the aim was solely to further safeguard the safety of our citizens. fortunately, subsequent discussions between the council and parliament confirmed the validity of my argument, taking note of it and adding the content of my amendments to the text, which were accepted in substance. i believe that the directive can also be a valuable tool in the fight against illegal immigration, by restricting the entry of people who, without work and without any permit, relying on easy social integration, are very often forced to commit crimes in order to survive, sometimes even against their will.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive combines transport safety with the safeguarding of commercial and maritime traffic between europe and the rest of the world. it is true that since 2002 and with the specific provisions of 2004, the problem has been raised not only in terms of the protection of human life at sea and the environmental impact, but also as a prevention of attacks. however, the situation needs to be improved, since it is often the case in us ports that ships are not allowed to load and unload and - particularly for container transport - ports have to agree with the us customs agency or they may be excluded from the traffic routes. this is not helping our competitiveness. the safety standards already in force, as mentioned by commissioner barrot, are fragmented, non-binding and lack an overall vision. it is therefore essential to adopt this regulatory framework in order to avoid distortions of competition and to recognise ports as nodal points in the logistics chain. the contribution of the pes to the preparation of the overall proposals was in the following two directions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's maritime transport policy. in view of the considerable initial gap between the council's and the commission's positions, and while we are satisfied with a result that is less ambitious than we would have liked, we consider the compromise reached satisfactory and we vote in favour. i would like to thank the rapporteur informally for her ability to listen and to summarize.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and on the conclusions reached in the vote in the committee on employment and social affairs. my congratulations are not formal, because from the very first hints of debate we have seen, we have seen how difficult it is to deal with such a delicate subject. i shall only touch on a few basic points in my speech: the protection of health and safety at work is not only the legal basis but also the justification for this proposal for a directive. i do not see how this can be said to be a threat to the principle of subsidiarity, to the protection of different national experiences. we must take into account that the principle of the protection of health and safety beyond certain limits of working hours is a general protection value which requires a basis of common rules and references for the very definition of the social, economic and labour model and the principles which the european union should be inspired by. all the possibilities for flexible and specific regulation of this matter must be preserved, and that is precisely why i, like other colleagues, would prefer that the basic principle be that of referring to the solutions adopted through collective bargaining in the various countries - of course, to the extent that it exists, it is effective and guarantees a regulatory basis that can balance the needs for flexibility and sector-specific organization of working time with those of health and safety, to be protected unconditionally. we shall see whether we can make progress on this point, also in relation to the council's positions, but for the time being i believe that the solutions adopted by the vote in committee guarantee these conditions, as well as guaranteeing flexibility by extending the basic reference period to 12 months. i hope that, on the basis of this work, the positions which may evolve in relation to the council's common position will provide even more appropriate solutions in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on his good work. we have an important job to do: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we cannot imagine europe's economic growth and development without the decisive contribution of workers, the defence of the quality of work and the protection of their health at the workplace. the working time directive is an essential element of social europe. we must be fully aware that growth and development objectives will not be achieved if we choose the so-called low road to competitiveness: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. what is needed is the high road, based on quality and innovation: in this context, human capital is crucial and its qualitative contribution must be our objective. the cercas report is a good response to this objective. the report under discussion seeks to preserve the fundamental principles of the working time directive as enshrined in the european constitution, both on the question of the reference period, both for opt-out and with regard to the judgment of the court of justice on duty periods. the report strongly supports the introduction of provisions to help workers reconcile their working and private lives, and we therefore fully support the cercas report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the provisions of rule 9 concerning the rules of conduct and the code of conduct of this parliament, since the flags of a country which does not exist, padania, as mr borghezio has called it, have appeared in this chamber today. i would like to deplore this act which offends my country, italy, which i am proud to represent, and i wonder whether the presidency does not intend to take action in the face of the offence inflicted on one of the member states by the presence in this parliament of the flags of a state, of a nation, which does not exist and is not recognized in any of the international organizations. i hope that all italian members of parliament will join me in denouncing this insult to our country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am only speaking to remind all the members of this house - including those who spoke a moment ago - that until the fall of the berlin wall there were many stateless nations in europe and that one day the right to self-determination will also allow padania to be a nation with a state of its own.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to say that i would withdraw amendment no 12, but it is now withdrawn as amendment no 10, because it has in fact been accepted by parliament and the commission. i am, however, supporting amendment no 11, which refers to controls against drug trafficking, counterfeiting of goods and, above all, illegal immigration.
president of the council. i think i should first of all thank mr karl-heinz florenz for his question and for his speech, which clearly delineates the issue of climate change and also gives some glimpses of solutions to this problem which will eventually constitute or may in the long run constitute a threat to humanity. i believe that europe has become a true leader in this field. we have succeeded in showing the way by implementing the kyoto protocol, but we also know that we cannot stop at this stage, that we must continue to develop the policies we have implemented on the basis of the kyoto protocol. and if we have to find solutions with our partners internationally, we also have to, as you so well said, find them at home. i believe, as the european council in march showed, that climate change is indeed a major challenge for europe, as indeed for all industrialized and industrializing countries, but that it also offers our industries new opportunities and prospects. the competitiveness of the european economy does not exclude the possibility of meeting this challenge on an industrial level. it is clear that europe can also exploit its role as a driving force to become an industrial power in development technologies, particularly in the field of alternative energies; in the field of energy saving, europe can, by cooperating with other partners, and in particular with countries such as china, which is beginning to attach greater importance to these issues for various reasons, in particular climate, consolidate its leadership position and make better economic use of it. i therefore believe that competitiveness and environmental protection, as well as competitiveness and tackling the climate problem, are perfectly compatible. the council also shares a number of analyses developed by parliament in its resolution on this subject and the seminar of government experts is an important meeting in this field: it represents, in a way, a new stage in the development of a future climate regime for the period after 2012. the parties will exchange views on current policies and initiatives, as well as on future adaptation and mitigation measures to address climate change. the european union's contribution to this seminar is therefore an important element of its strategy for formal negotiations to develop a post-kyoto regime. the european council meeting on 22 and 23 march 2005, and i have already spoken about this in the context of the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, has already adopted key elements which are of vital importance for the design of the future climate regime. it confirmed that, to achieve the key objective of the united nations framework convention on climate change, the increase in the global annual average surface temperature must not exceed 2oc compared to pre-industrial levels. it also welcomed the commission communication on 'defeating global climate change' and in this context clearly stressed the need to give new impetus to international negotiations by exploring options for a post-2012 regime and ensuring the widest possible cooperation from all countries. in addition, he stressed the need to develop a medium- and long-term european union strategy compatible with the 2°c objective and in this respect i believe that he fully shares the concerns you have expressed, that he is taking ownership of the solutions in the various sectors you have mentioned. during a visit by the troika to the united states on 18 and 19 april 2005, and i think the commissioner can speak about this, an agreement was reached to explore ways of relaunching the activities of the eu-us high level group to discuss policies to combat climate change. i can assure you that the president of the united states has assured the president-in-office of the european council that the united states will take a more open and sensitive approach to these problems. contacts with other key players, and i will mention in particular china and india, involved in the climate change process, are planned in the coming months. the issue of climate change is also high on the g8 agenda and i know that the future british presidency will regard this problem as one of its priorities. the european parliament certainly has an important role to play in our joint efforts to reach agreement on a future climate regime. the council is very interested in parliament's views on the post-2012 framework. it also hoped that parliament would continue to participate in international meetings. the council also calls on parliament to help it raise awareness among european public opinion and national parliaments in the european union and elsewhere. it is not uncommon for you to meet members from countries concerned by this problem, which should concern us all, in other parts of parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, after the very detailed speech by mr schmit, i will add a few points and perhaps go back to some of what the minister has said before. i would first like to thank the president, mr florenz, for giving us the opportunity to discuss climate change today and, in particular, the european union strategy for the seminar of governmental experts on climate change which will be held in bonn next week. i share the view of parliament that the seminar is a very crucial step in the elaboration of the future regime on climate change. the european union's contribution to this seminar is therefore an important part of our strategy to obtain a mandate for the opening of formal negotiations on the development of this regime. on 9 february, the commission adopted its communication winning the battle against climate change on the planet. this communication, which is also addressed to the european parliament, contains the commission's first recommendations for the european union's strategy beyond 2012. the main elements of this communication were adopted by the environment council on 11 march and by the european council on 22 and 23 march, as mr schmit has already mentioned. in addition to identifying elements constituting a future scheme, the communication also lists specific steps to be taken towards such a scheme. there is a need to explore, together with key partners, during the current year both the possibilities of a post-2012 strategy and the creation of a favourable climate for the launch of formal negotiations on the future regime. three weeks ago, together with my colleagues - as mr schmit said - from luxembourg and the united kingdom, i visited the united states and the result of these really constructive discussions, as you know, mr florenz, because we had been looking forward to them, was the agreement to explore ways of re-routing, re-establishing the high level group between the european union and the united states to examine policies to combat climate change. we have also planned contacts with other countries in the coming months. and climate change is high on the agenda of the g8, and i have already had informal discussions with colleagues from our key partners both in the g8 meetings and at the united nations on the occasion of the sustainable development debate. and we met either together with mr lux and lord whitty or separately with representatives with ministers from china, brazil, japan, south africa, australia, russia and we had the first reactions. unfortunately, we were unable to meet the indian minister, despite our attempts in england to get a meeting at the g8 meetings and in new york. in parallel, we are encouraging numerous informal contacts and discussions at a technical level. as regards the seminar of government experts, this represents an important opportunity to extend these contacts at this level through open dialogue within the framework of the united nations agreement on climate change. in line with the commission's strategy, the european union's objective for the seminar is to build trust, discuss and seek common ground and send the appropriate messages not only to the united states but also to all other global partners. i should point out here that many countries are hiding behind - at least so far - the refusal of the united states to discuss the issue of climate change. the european union will do that. it will send the appropriate messages by presenting our views and seeking to hear the views of others on the key issues addressed in the commission's communication. i would like to agree with mr florenz that we must include other sectors if we are to be able to combat climate change even more effectively, including the transport sector. as mentioned earlier, the commission is preparing a communication for next june on the subject of air transport, whose share in greenhouse gas emissions is steadily increasing. we are considering three alternatives: either taxation, inclusion in the gas trading system or a charge on users. we must also say that the new agricultural policy supports the production of biofuels and of course the housing sector and, more generally, the building sector is very important, where we can have significant results. in conclusion, i would say that parliament is called upon to play an important role in our efforts to reach agreement on the future climate regime. the commission is particularly interested in your views on the problems and recommendations for the european union strategy as presented in our communication. i also look forward to your continued active participation and cooperation in international conferences. i would also ask for parliament's support in further raising awareness among the public of the european union and among your fellow members of parliament in other countries. you have done a very good job in buenos aires and i want you to continue that work with the same demands on behalf of the european parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is indeed a very important problem, a real problem. there are still those who want to deny it, but we cannot afford to conceal the seriousness of the problem. climate change is due to a double deficiency: the physical scarcity of energy resources and the inadequacy of the ecosystem to absorb waste streams. it is important to remember that climate change, with the increase in extreme events, poses serious threats to the territory, which must be countered immediately. in the present context, more security elements are needed: the kyoto protocol is only a first response. we have to go ahead and provide a system solution. the question is not only the production of energy but also the consumption habits of our civilization. what scares me most are the statements from the united states that their standard of living cannot be called into question. this is the first thing we must make possible in europe. taking the knowledge civilization seriously also means changing our way of life even more radically and making our development sustainable. we must try to make progress in involving other countries, convinced that we are really faced with the obligation to transform our civilization. we need to move out of the fossil fuel era, and the kyoto protocol is just the first step. we have to go further and act seriously, because we have to radically change our system of civilization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given that the environment is an inalienable asset whose potential must be managed to the best of our ability and whose continuity must be guaranteed, we and the tricolor flame movement, which i represent, believe that the union should make this issue one of the priorities of its policies and strategies. it is not possible here to go into the scientific merits of the hypothesis that our planet is undergoing a climate change on the geological time scale - a hypothesis on which there is no agreement among researchers - also because of the limited time-space of meteorological observations. it is widely accepted that the rise in the average global temperature since the beginning of the last century has led to changes in the ecosystem - let us mention the progress of desertification processes. since the increase in temperature is recognised as being at least partly the responsibility of human activities, we agree that the wider application of the kyoto protocol is a useful and necessary attempt to limit this effect. i therefore ask the commission and the council to make every effort to ensure that the protocol is fully respected within the eu and to consider all possible means of exerting political and economic pressure on those states which have not transposed the protocol.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind. there are companies that make them, there are brokers that market them, there are governments and private individuals that buy and sell them, and there are people who die: one every minute. with these words amnesty international recently launched the marking and tracking project, a treaty whereby states commit to take measures to identify all weapons and ammunition with a non-forgeable and non-destructible serial number: the european union is a necessary step to prevent the illicit trafficking of arms. until weapons are identifiable, states and companies will always decline responsibility. the european union should actively support this campaign. italy, for example, the world's second largest producer of small arms and the largest in europe, sold arms worth €36 million to countries involved in armed conflict, €3.6 million to countries subject to embargoes and €128 million to countries convicted of human rights violations between 1999 and 2003, without respecting the legal provisions. on the other hand, the five permanent members of the un security council control 88 percent of the world arms market. for all these reasons, it is essential that the european union adopts the arms trade treaty drawn up by a group of ngos and nobel laureates and that it launches a convention on arms brokers which provides, inter alia, that any activity involving the transfer of arms between third parties is subject to state authorization. the european union needs to improve the code of conduct on arms transfers by clarifying the circumstances in which arms exports can be refused authorisation, extending controls to all military equipment, requiring individual states to have legislation in line with the code of conduct and publishing an annual report on their arms exports. we must not forget that small arms are responsible for almost all the deaths in the conflicts that are raging in our world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to give reasons for my vote against the appointment of professor bini smaghi, because, despite being a rigorous scholar of appreciated linearity and competence, he has spoken in favour of policies which are absolutely unacceptable. at the end of the hearing, he argued that the ecb should not cut interest rates. he has, of course, spoken in favour of ratifying the constitution, which in fact facilitates the task of the european central bank, which for us is the mother of all usury: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. he also said he was in favour of the stability pact, which limits the freedom of nation states. lorenzo bini smaghi has publicly argued that the institutions created by the bretton woods agreements - the international monetary fund and the world bank - have among their legitimate objectives the stability of the international financial system; but it forgets that in the name of this, they have fostered poverty and the rise of the gap between rich and poor. we believe that the international monetary fund, the world bank and the european central bank represent the interests of a small minority of technocrats and of the big transnational financial institutions, which enrich themselves through financial speculation. these are institutions that have decreed the misfortune of entire nations: we must remember the case of yugoslavia, first suffocated by wear and tear and then not so tamed, destroyed and disintegrated. we are therefore voting not against the person, whom we admire, but against one of the institutions which we do not share and which we strongly condemn.
member of the commission. mr president, i would simply like to repeat what i said in my first speech, which is in line with the vast majority of the speeches by members. we wish mr bini smaghi the very best of success, because success in his task as a member of the executive committee of the governing council of the european central bank will be the success of the single currency, will be the success of economic and monetary union and will be the success of the progress, happiness and well-being of all european citizens.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the commission adopted a proposal for a communication which i had drawn up and which consists of an action plan for implementing and achieving the priorities of the so-called hague programme for the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice. the communication contains an initial formulation of the policy objectives and an annex indicating the main concrete measures, accompanied also by deadlines within which each of the initiatives must be adopted. we have prepared a programme comprising 84 initiatives within the overall timeframe of the commission's mandate: of these 84 measures, 32 will be implemented by 2005, which will be the most important year for the start of the action plan. we believe that we have thus entered the second phase of the european policy of freedom, security and justice. firstly, it is a question of equipping ourselves with the means to plan and plan better for future action. we are of course aware that in the field of security a certain unpredictability of external events is always possible, but we must move with a strategic vision and avoid emergency measures: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. another aspect of our work will be the monitoring of the implementation of individual initiatives by the national states. we have prepared a specific reference, a chapter of the communication, which concerns the preparation of a report every year, a sort of scoreboard, which would actually be a comparative chart of the measures taken at national level to implement and comply with the guidelines contained in this document. i think this report is important, the first one will be published in december this year, six months after the commission adopts the action plan. the three main objectives which the commission has set itself are first and foremost the promotion and protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. we believe that this is a central aspect of european citizenship, which we must achieve in an organic way, but which requires europe, both internally and externally in its international action, to be a promoter and not just a passive defender of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. this is clearly linked to the need for and priority given to security by the citizens of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall pay particular attention to this, but as i have already said, any action to strengthen security must not be at the expense of the fundamental freedoms and rights of everyone. the guideline will be more security, more respect and more protection, and the promotion of individual freedoms. an important chapter is devoted to the various aspects of solidarity: solidarity means considering issues such as immigration at european level, and no longer at national level, separating the aspect of illegal immigration and human trafficking, which we must work hard to combat, from the aspect of the rules for the entry of legal immigrants, those who are entitled to adequate access to social services, and thus an integration policy based on legality, on respect for the law. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the report on the european area of justice is another example. of course, i'm summarizing these aspects as much as i can, but you'll find the details in the communication: civil justice and criminal justice. we cannot look only at criminal justice, but we must stress that civil justice and the harmonization of rules or at least the solution of common problems can help european citizens in serious problems of their daily lives. i am thinking of certain aspects of family law, for example successions between persons of different nationalities, the execution of payment orders where the creditor is from one country and the debtor is from another country: we can also find solutions in civil law that improve and solve certain problems in the daily lives of citizens. this certainly means a commitment by the three european institutional actors: the european parliament, the council and the commission. we intend to work to strengthen this action, to strengthen this interinstitutional partnership, we will make every effort, where possible, to widen the areas of co-decision with parliament. in this action plan we have mentioned many aspects which parliament had stressed, but i will mention only one, the increased role of the court of justice of the european union in certain areas. we have sometimes found the council's reaction problematic, but we also feel obliged to continue working to ensure that all three institutional actors agree on the implementation of the lines of this action plan. i am of course aware of the report drawn up by mr cavada, chairman of the libe committee, after a hearing and a thorough debate on the priorities in the field of security, justice and freedom. as you will see, this document contains many of those indications, many of those suggestions, and i hope and hope very much that on this occasion and in the further work of this parliament you will be able to find agreement on the lines of action in relation to the commission's strategy. i conclude by saying that we obviously count on the support of this parliament, we count on the support of the european parliament because freedom, justice and security are fundamental needs of citizens, because they are pillars of the european charter of fundamental rights and of the constitutional treaty in the european union; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european parliament, as a political actor, can therefore make contributions, proposals and requests for integration, which we will certainly take into account.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the issue of citizenship and fundamental rights is certainly one of the most pressing in this context. european citizenship will, in my view, be the synthesis of all our common values, of the european principles in which we believe and which we have enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. that is why in the action plan we are not seeking to strengthen the arsenals of repression - that is to say, to avoid a purely repressive and punitive approach - but we are seeking to strike a balance between the need for investigation - the need to identify the perpetrators of crimes, first of all terrorists and members of organised crime - and the protection of individual rights and freedoms. this means, for example, strengthening procedural and procedural rights: the first proposal is already before this parliament. it is not enough, it is only a first proposal under discussion, others will follow to strengthen the aspect of defence of the prerogatives, freedoms and rights of the person. of course, the issue of the protection of personal data is a prominent one, and we shall be giving it special consideration. i have recently met the european data protection supervisor on this subject. i confirmed my intention to consult him in advance when i put forward my proposals, precisely to ensure that the various concerns - including those of the so-called article 29 committee - can be taken into account on the subject of the protection of personal data. this availability goes beyond the purely formal aspects, i.e. when the legal basis does not allow us to expressly acknowledge it in the procedure, but extends to cases where we want to take care in advance of the aspects of compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. i have renewed an informal offer of cooperation with the commission. this applies to many areas, it applies to the dossier relating to the agreement signed with the united states in the last legislature - on this, as i said, we await the judgment of the court of justice to give an assessment - it certainly applies to the full respect of existing agreements with the european union - i am referring to the specific incident mentioned today of a klm flight which was not authorized to cross the airspace of the united states. i shall give a precise answer on that in a moment. the last issue that was raised was that of immigration. the issue of immigration must certainly be addressed in its entirety: the european union has a long-standing policy on illegal immigration and a european policy on integration and legal immigration. the honourable member referred to national competence. it is well known that national competence concerns only the number of people who can be admitted to a given country, but there is a willingness on the part of the member states to agree on some common rules, and that is the aim of the green paper we presented in january. so legal immigration, not just illegal immigration, will also require action by europe, not by individual national states. of course, the number of immigrants to be accepted is a matter for the member states to decide, but the constitutional treaty itself, as you know, has reaffirmed this principle. finally, on the specific question of the klm flight, we have received information which will be the subject of a written reply which will be received shortly from the commission, in particular from mrs ferrero-waldner's offices. however, i can anticipate, as requested, the content of the information we have received. the information tells us that the passenger data on that flight were not transmitted on the basis of the passenger name record (pnr), on which the commission could have acted, but on the basis of a bilateral agreement between mexico and the united states - the so-called apis agreement. in a case like this, therefore, the commission cannot interfere in an agreement between the united states on the one hand and mexico on the other, precisely because the pnr agreement, on the basis of which we could of course have intervened, was not applied. these are the first elements received, but, of course, the written reply will be much more in-depth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence, vice-president frattini. i think that what you have said points to some correct objectives, but too often the instruments for achieving them are not the most appropriate. i am referring in particular to the need to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking; the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that they are protected. i am referring in particular to the fact that on 14 april last commissioner frattini met with the european union's ministers of the interior to strengthen cooperation with libya in order to combat illegal immigration. i have personally witnessed the treatment of illegal immigrants in libya - including those who are transferred from a european country to libya - and i have witnessed blatant violations of human rights. i ask whether the european union intends to use these instruments to combat illegal immigration.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to sum up in a few sentences the content of a directive which is of considerable importance to tens of millions of european professionals, but above all to all eu citizens who have to deal with a professional on a daily basis. this very important directive is a key element in the completion of the internal market. within the limits of its autonomy, each state establishes rules and procedures for the exercise of professions, while, in compliance with the treaties, every citizen of the union must be able to enjoy - temporarily or permanently - in any other state of the union the right of access to employment on an equal footing with other citizens of the host state. within the framework of national autonomy, each government decides what the minimum levels of culture and training are for access to individual professions and also establishes who must authorize and control the exercise of the professions. in this respect, in accordance with the treaties, the autonomy of the nations and the principle of subsidiarity, we must harmonize the system. in the past decades, numerous directives have covered this subject, but parliament has now merged them into a single measure within a general macro-system - with due regard for certain specificities and certain professions. the content of the directive is fundamental. i shall mention only a few of them for the sake of brevity. the treaties mention the selfemployed but never define them. for the first time, this directive - albeit in the context of a recital - defines the professions as follows: it is a very important step forward, because by referring to specific articles of the treaty, parliament establishes a definitive framework which is the legal basis for future measures. the directive introduces a fundamental definition - that of competent authorities - meaning those national and - we hope soon, thanks to the directive's premises - european bodies. this definition should put an end to the controversy - which lasted during the last legislature - on orders, colleges and associations. all these bodies are finally being incorporated into national legislation and european law. the directive covers a whole series of other fundamental innovations: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. it also provides that in future the representatives of the individual professions must be consulted at european level in connection with any other innovation affecting them. i have two more references to make. some european professionals, for example german teachers or italian engineers, think that they have not found a place in the directive, but this is not the case. we will seek, in cooperation with the commission, through the joint platforms and other instruments, to solve specific problems in the future. president. - i shall conclude by thanking the whole house. parliament is in full agreement with this directive and i also welcome the excellent relationship that has been established with the presidency and the commission. this agreement has enabled us to reach a common compromise which ennobles the work of europe and puts an end to today's bureaucracy and opens up a future of certainty and less bureaucracy. what we are going to approve tomorrow is certainly something new for our europe, for the europe we all want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there are many examples - including in my own country - of the practice of preventing the recognition of a professional title by complicated and lengthy procedures in order to keep out competition and to give advantages to one's own people. it is often easier to get an american title recognized in europe than one acquired in a neighboring country. the well-thought-out compromise that we have now reached is a major success. it sets minimum standards for vocational qualifications at five different levels of qualification. at the same time, it also prevents downward levelling. i repeat what has already been said by previous speakers, namely that it is not the principle of the country of origin but the principle of the host country that has been established as the minimum requirement for the various professions. the aim is to establish clear rules aimed at the most automatic recognition of professional qualifications of all eu citizens in all member states, whether employed or self-employed. the trialogue meetings have produced a comprehensive and good compromise, which we greens are happy to support.
mr president, commissioner mariann fischer boel, ladies and gentlemen, parliament's resolution on the organization of the common market in fruit and vegetables is addressing a serious situation in european agriculture which requires a rapid and effective response. i congratulate the rapporteur on her approach to the difficulties in this area and her proposals for appropriate solutions. i am sure that the commissioner will take account of the concerns expressed by parliament. the adoption of my amendment, which provides for the origin labelling of processed products, is a step forward. it is not just the textile sector that is suffering from asian competition. there is a need to make the origin of processed agricultural products transparent so that the consumer is informed of the origin of the product he is buying by means of labelling. this proposal is particularly important for the tomato-based canned food sector, a driving force in the italian economy both for domestic production and for exports. in 2004 most of the tomatoes in our fields were not harvested, the huge quantities of processed products coming from china at very low prices and without health guarantees have put this sector into crisis. chinese canned food is processed in italy, often mixed with italian products and then resold as made in italy without the consumer being able to recognize the true origin. the labelling is a key guarantee of quality and transparency. secondly, the committee on agriculture welcomed the proposal that immediate reform is needed to deal with the periodic market crises in the fresh produce sector. there are calls from many quarters for reform to balance supply and demand and manage surpluses. i hope the commissioner will consider shortening the time, the two years he has mentioned are too long. i would like to conclude by recalling that the fruit and vegetable sector is heavily penalized compared with other agricultural sectors, receives only 4% of community resources and requires cofinancing quotas which are too onerous for producers.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to begin this speech by saying that we would have preferred to speak to commissioner louis michel, who is a keen and profound expert on this subject - without taking anything away from the presence of commissioner mariann fischer boel. the last time the european parliament returned to this question was during the visit of the delegation led by mr morgantini last september. however, since that month, a lot has happened in sudan: firstly, the negotiations which led to the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement on 25 january, ending 21 years of civil war between the north and south of the country, have been successfully concluded, although the protocols contained in this agreement are very demanding and require good will on both sides. at the same time, international attention has been drawn to the ongoing tragedy in darfur. it is a complex tragedy, with many facets, which is difficult to sum up in a few minutes, but which has seen not only the great attention of the international community, but also a considerable effort by the humanitarian machine, in particular the european union, and recently also important pronouncements by the united nations security council. what we believe is at the heart of the problem and therefore needs attention from this house is whether the positive agreement between the north and south of the country, between ali osman taha and john garang, can be auspicious and therefore positively affect the conflict in darfur or whether in fact the international community is at risk of the unresolved problem in darfur destabilising the peace agreement between the north and the south. the two issues are thus separate, but closely linked, because they are taking place in the same country. the european union is very committed because, on the one hand, it has contributed in humanitarian terms with an effort of some eur 400 million, and on the other hand it is paying directly part of the costs of the amis mission, which is intended to maintain some relative stability in darfur. there are also strong calls for the mandate of this mission to be extended and the number of members of the mission to be greatly increased. it is worth remembering that darfur covers an area roughly the size of france: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that the situation in darfur is still complex, that the violence of a year and a half ago has ceased, but that abuses continue. if we are not able to stop the violence, we are not able to bring the displaced and refugees back to their villages. so paradoxically, we get the effect that the humanitarian machine is working, the camps are working, but they are attracting new refugees, even from chad, because they are oases of relative calm compared to a country that remains highly unstable and very violent. with this oral question, which will be followed by a compromise resolution between the main groups at this part-session, we intend to ask the commission how much and what it intends to do in terms of humanitarian aid during the course of this year and what framework of commitments the commission intends to promote for darfur and for sudan in general. we would also like to know whether it is possible to work together with the organisation of african unity to establish a no-fly zone in darfur, the only condition for a serious and credible end to the violence. i would add - although this was not included in the compromise resolution - that if the commission considers it useful to work towards raising the level of political involvement of europe by appointing a special representative for darfur and sudan - as we have done for the great lakes and kosovo. in the end, if the european union is investing so many political and material resources in solving the problems in that area, as the first donor, it seems fair to ask whether it intends to raise the political level of its presence at this point.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the assessment and proposals made by mr pistelli. much has been said about the tragedy, the horror, the suffering of the sudanese people because of the war in darfur. the united nations commission has conducted a thorough investigation, defining the crimes committed and the responsibilities of the various actors in the conflict who will be tried by the international criminal court. such crimes, along with criminals, must not go unpunished! but let me say what i saw in the acp delegation of the european parliament last march. aniala fatima, displaced, still scared, driven from her destroyed village, who along with thousands of other displaced people waited her turn to tell the government-appointed commission what she had lost in order to get compensation; in fashr, in the meeting with the heads of families and tribes who were together deciding on a pact for reconciliation, there were the fathers of the government militias and the fathers of the sons of the rebels who said: "these are our children, we must make peace!" in juba, in the war-torn south, where there is still hope for such an extraordinary and important agreement, parliamentarians and ngos told us that we had to act quickly, clear the roads of mines and bring together the families who had been separated, and open the university under the watchful eye of unimis. in khartoum, the open offices of the splm, which is no longer underground or is trying to build a political movement and no longer a military one, told us that they have no problem staying in khartoum and again the african union, which, together with the rebels and the army, are discussing and figuring out what to do to resolve the situation. i cannot say more because i have only two minutes, but i think it is essential that the role of our parliament and the european union is not to condemn but to seek solutions to the conflict, poverty, injustice and lack of democracy that still plague this country. in this respect, the economic aid decided by the donors' conference in oslo is decisive, as is the aid from the european union. we must act quickly, peace needs to be nurtured and in darfur, in addition to desertification and poverty, thousands and thousands of people are waiting to return to safety. so i think we have to act like this and work for peace.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to my colleagues in the other groups who supported our proposal to discuss the world bank, although i was fully aware, as were most of us, that the council could not make statements very different from what minister smith said this morning. however, we must be aware that an unsatisfactory situation can and must be changed, also because this seems to me to be an area in which political will can help us. we must not resort to large articles of the treaty to ensure that the council and the commission, together with parliament, which is absolutely essential, can work to improve or at least to put the subject of european coordination on the agenda. the european coordination should not, however, be limited to the meritorious work of technical and financial cooperation, but should also focus on the policies of the world bank - on which we do not intervene in any way - on the appointment processes and the criteria for granting financing. i believe that these are the three areas on which the action of the european parliament should be better defined: we can do that if we want to. i think, mr president, that you will correct me in your answer if you do, that this is not a question of competence but of political will: the council can act if it wishes, as can the commission, and so can parliament. as far as the appointment procedures are concerned, we are well aware that from 2000 to 2001 directives were issued to make them more transparent and acceptable. these directives have been ignored, and this has a strong political value: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the united states rejected the first european candidate for the international monetary fund, and the european countries did not do the same when wolfowitz was put forward as a candidate for the world bank. they could have. two phone calls were enough to convince a couple of european prime ministers or prime ministers, and the executive directors were completely bypassed: i think that this could have been avoided if we had wanted to. as for the quality of the world bank's policies, we have no particular guarantee today that some of the small openings that were started by wolfersohn will be continued: i think about governance, i think about the corruption issue. i think we should try to do something about that too. there are a number of extremely controversial projects, such as the nam theun dam in laos or a mining project in guatemala, which raise quite general opposition, but our executive directors have approved them. if this parliament or the public had known about it, they would probably have reacted differently. i would like to hear not only declarations of impotence but also some element of will to act.
i would like to thank mrs frassoni for clarifying the issues so directly. i think that the appointment of mr wolfowitz as head of the world bank has once again highlighted the lack of democracy and transparency in the process of selecting and appointing the president of the world's leading development finance institution. the committee on development of this parliament has also pointed this out. we would like to think that the president of the world bank has a positive approach to the resolution of intercultural conflicts, as well as a strong commitment to supporting multilateralism, together, of course, with a personal commitment to social equality and the fight against poverty. but apart from the judgment on the person, known as one of the most effective promoters of the doctrine of preventive war and the export of democracy by means of arms - we never know, st paul also converted on the road to damascus - it seems that the world bank has not evolved much from the framework set at bretton woods, more than sixty years ago. this is also true of the voting and seating systems, which need to be revised, also to respond to the demands of the countries of the global south and the movements which have been voiced in recent years for a different south and for participation. the european union is committed to ensuring and facilitating greater participation of developing countries in the decision-making processes of the global economy, including the international financial institutions. however, regardless of these agreements and the commitments made by the eu - in monterey, barcelona, johannesburg - it would be correct and consistent to ensure good governance in the management of an institution which first requires it as a condition for access to funding. failure to respect the criteria of democracy and transparency undermines the foundations, legitimacy and credibility of international institutions in a world that needs strong and legitimate international institutions that promote participation: i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the european union can play a key role in this legitimacy, indeed the european union must play this role, but to do so it must use a single voice: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union, we repeat, is the world's largest donor, but it often forgets to accompany its donations with effective political action. the european parliaments can play an important role and this has already been done at a meeting in new york. clear answers are needed: the democratic reform of procedures must also include an overturning of the asymmetrical position between the economies of the north and the south of the world. i believe we must bring development, and very often, instead, the policies of the world bank have had devastating effects on the populations. this is particularly true of privatization and basic needs, since it seems pointless, as mr watson said, for the markets of developing countries to be full of goods which the people cannot buy because they have no work and no money to buy them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the resolution before us, since we also have to discuss this and i think that nobody has done so yet, is realistic and balanced. i am pleased that it has been signed by almost all the political groups, and this shows the unity of the european parliament and raises its prestige. but above all it is good that europe is turning its attention to kyrgyzstan because the european union has been absent for too long, as elmar brok recalled recently, and has a certain responsibility for tolerating the regime of akayev and others like him in the area. it is also true that when we met mr akayev in bishkek two years ago with the european parliament delegation, he seemed sincere and convincing in his claim that his objective was a more democratic and more transparent state. maybe he really believed it then, but he sure as hell doesn't anymore. the resolution speaks of the fragile situation in kyrgyzstan and rightly so, because unlike ukraine and georgia, as mrs stenzel has pointed out, the final result is far from achieved. there's a dangerous power vacuum right now. the resolution also stresses the contentious nature of the opposition which now appears to be in power, united only by the fight against the akayev regime, while its democratic credentials are tarnished by its previous collaboration with the latter's dictatorship. that is why paragraph 4 of the resolution is very important, which calls for a substantial reform of the constitution and warns against the danger of a system of power similar to the previous one, but with different political figures. the danger exists, the united states has been providing financial and moral support to the democratic forces in kyrgyzstan for years, we must start doing the same.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, amendment no 54, which is part of block 1, provides for the introduction of additional tables in annex 5 to be considered as supplementary to table 22 of the council's common position: not replacements, but complementary ones! i am making this clarification because the way it was put is not clear, and because it is in the record: it is an agreed position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to table an oral amendment. i would ask that the word 'security' be supplemented by the words 'public and private' to extend this right to private security workers, who are often penalized and not adequately protected by the unions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked a representative sample of the 20 million pensioners who, for the most part, voted for me to be here as a member of the european parliament to represent them, how i should vote on the reduction of working hours. the champion said to me: "there is someone who wants us to work all our lives, all the years of our working life, more months, more weeks, more days, more hours a day than we can possibly imagine, as if that were not enough, they also want us to collect our pension in as few years as possible, in as few months as possible, in as small a measure as possible. we have nothing to hope for but to be able to work as little as possible during the working day.'
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 8 may 1945 is the date which marks the end of the second world war, but also the date which marks the end of the fascist and nazi dictatorships in europe. on that date europe was freed from the spectre of authoritarianism, and that date also marks the beginning of a europe aspiring to peace and social justice. europe was liberated by the resistance of men and women, by the resistance of the partisans who built the institutional and moral foundations of this europe. europe was liberated by those who fought in stalingrad, it was liberated by the allied american and canadian troops and also by the soviet army. this date can be regarded as the foundation stone of the new europe. unfortunately, too often this page of history is the object of revisionist plunder and attack, and this debate too is tainted by concrete revisionist impulses. it is doing a disservice to the commemoration of the liberation of europe by indiscriminately mixing 8 may 1945 with the crimes of stalinism. i want to be clear on this: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. to tell the truth, the values of peace and social justice in this short century have been undermined not only by stalinism, but also by colonialism, imperialism, neoliberalism: the european union has been involved in a number of conflicts, from algeria to vietnam, from the bombing of belgrade to the massacres in sabra and chatila, to the events of 11 september 1973 in santiago, chile. you have to do a good service to history: the memory of the past is an essential asset for facing the future and for building the prospects of this europe. there is only one way to make europe stronger: we must banish the word war from our vocabulary. europe must play an active role in building a world of peace, from iraq to afghanistan to palestine. in conclusion, europe must be more courageous and more authoritative, we must reverse the famous latin saying and strongly support vis pacem para pacem. this must be our north star.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes a number of oral questions to the council pursuant to rule 109 of the rules of procedure (b6-0236/2005)
question no 1 has been withdrawn. question no 2 by mr robert evans (h-0284/2005) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens subject: the is the council aware that the national labor relations board (nlrb) of the united states of america has deprived teachers who have graduated from private universities in the united states of america of the protection of the us collective bargaining agreement? will the council press the bush administration to allow academic unions to organise to protect the quality of jobs, academic freedom and intellectual standing of american universities?
question no 3 by mr bernd posselt (h-0294/2005) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: the minority protection rules in macedonia and serbiaare the minority protection rules applied in serbia, and in particular in the vojvodina, novi pazar sandzak and presevo valley regions, in line with european standards? how does the council assess these rules in comparison with the criteria which, on the basis of the ohrid agreement, apply in macedonia?
question no 4 by chris davies (h-0295/2005) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: the what is the council's response to commissioner rehn's suggestion at the foreign affairs committee meeting last january that, in an attempt to overcome the current impasse, it was prepared to add article 308 ec as an additional legal basis for the aid and trade regulations?
member of the commission. mr president, the commission would like to present the preliminary draft budget which we adopted on 27 april. this is the last budget for this current financial perspective. in our draft, we concentrate on the main political goals agreed by the commission and parliament, relating to four main policy areas: the relaunched lisbon agenda, security and solidarity, enlargement, and external relations. i will discuss these four policy areas. the core priority of this budget is the relaunched lisbon agenda, which aims to strengthen economic growth and create jobs. the european budget contributes to this objective with three sets of policies: internal policies, agricultural development and structural policies. concerning internal policies, an increase of 2% is envisaged. contributing directly to the lisbon goals, research and development will record an increase of 4.7%. the common agricultural policy also shows a clear overlap with the goals of the lisbon strategy. the year 2006 will be the first year when the funds from direct income will be transferred into rural development spending, which will be boosted to 13.6 %. the european structural funds together will see an increase of 5% and reach eur 44.6 billion. their core tasks are to enhance the growth potential of lagging regions and to increase employment opportunities. added up, all these actions contribute to the goals of the lisbon strategy and account for at least one third of the budget. to come back to the other main objectives of the budget, solidarity and security, the commission proposal foresees measures to improve social and environmental security, ensure fundamental rights and promote active citizenship, especially for young people. the fight against terrorism, improving food and transport safety, and security of energy supply are also among the priority measures, for which the preliminary draft budget proposes an increase of 5%. to conclude on internal policies, i would like to stress that the commission’s proposal leaves enough margin for the budget authorities, and in particular parliament, to increase the budget for those programmes which it considers necessary. but these increases will have to be discussed with the council. the commission is, of course, ready to help and support this initiative. the next priority is to make enlargement a success. the further phasing-in of the new member states is reflected in all the internal headings, with particularly sharp increases in structural – up to 30% – and rural development policies – up to 9%. on the administrative side, this phasing-in is also reflected in the request for 700 new posts. for candidate countries, the commission proposes to budget only the amounts that have already been endorsed for the respective pre-accession strategies. to support these pre-accession strategies, the commission is also requesting 100 new external personnel positions. in the external relations field, accommodating the new 2006 priorities while at the same time ensuring the continuity of ongoing cooperation programmes is not possible within the predetermined ceiling. that is why the commission proposes recourse to the flexibility instrument for the major part of the reconstruction aid for asia. we would like to emphasise that, for the fifth time in seven years, the ceiling fixed in berlin will not be sufficient. i now turn to the global figures of the 2006 budget. the commission’s proposal refers to amounts of eur 112.6 billion in payments and eur 121.3 billion in commitments. the respective increases are 6% and 4%. that represents 1.02% of the european union’s gni in payments and 1.09% of the european union’s gni in commitments. bearing in mind the ongoing negotiations on the future financial perspective, i would like to point out that the commission is asking for what is necessary and sufficient at this stage to finance the union’s policies in 2006. it should be kept in mind that today we are talking about the annual budget. this preliminary draft budget for 2006, which already represents 1.02 % of the eu’s gni in payments, does not take account of the needs of future enlargement to bulgaria and romania, or of the complete integration of new member states, in particular in relation to the agriculture and cohesion policies that have already been decided upon, nor, of course, does it take account of increased investment in growth and jobs, as required under the relaunched lisbon agenda. i am sure that this is going to be an important year for all of us and i can assure you that the commission will strive to help the budget authorities to reach a good agreement on the 2006 budget for the union and its citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the debate which will follow this evening's presentation will finally be fruitful. i hope that this will be a positive year, but frankly, the starting conditions are only partly encouraging. i am pleased to note that commissioner dalia grybauskaite has found in the draft budget positive answers to some of the questions which are of particular concern to parliament and which are included in its guidelines. i am referring to the modulation of agricultural expenditure in favour of rural development, the increase in heading 2 for regional policy, the lightening of expenditure on youth and culture and expenditure on agencies. i cannot say the same for heading 4 for external actions and for assistance to smes. commissioner grybauskaite told us that the direct assistance to the lisbon strategy covers more than a third of the draft budget. we shall check each case individually, but on first examination it seems to me that the amounts are insufficient. however, even if this assessment were wrong, the reference to the agreement on sustainable development reached at the gothenburg european council is certainly unsatisfactory: there is no competitive growth that is not also sustainable growth. the proposal on external action also appears disappointing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we would have expected more momentum in general, but our attitude will be constructive. we do not want to make a list of expenditure, we want to defend the prerogatives of parliament and the european union.
i am very surprised to hear in this house that the wto is the instrument for improving and promoting fair and supportive trade. but how can you say such a thing? it is enough to see what the concrete results of the negotiating rounds that have taken place and are taking place have been. but how can you talk about reciprocity between a giant and a dwarf, between david and goliath? how can we expect developing countries to be the winners of this round if we don't change our policies? why don't you get into the merits of the results? why is it not said that subsidies to 25,000 cotton farmers in the united states have starved millions of people in central africa? why is it not said that the trips (trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights) have deprived and continue to deprive 30 million people of aids medicines - the vast majority in africa - and that the imposition of trips on india has halved the number of people in the third world who have access to aids medicines? why is there no mention of the disaster caused by the subsidies to intensive farming paid by europe and the united states? the disaster that united brazil, india and the countries of the global south against europe and the united states at the cancun summit. and how are we preparing for the next wto summit in hong kong? the impression is that we will be able to liberalize social and health services in the name of a liberalism which will simply end up making these services - controlled by the big multinationals - payable in the countries of the global south, preventing a large part of the population from having access to them. why not talk about the economic partnership agreements? we have discussed them and we have seen their dramatic result in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly meeting in bamako. through the demand for complete liberalization of trade with the south - in africa in particular - and the reduction of tariffs for those nations, these agreements have helped to destroy them economically, not allowing them to choose their own strategies for a different development. i think instead that we should be fighting for a reduction in the role of the world trade organisation. we should fight to ensure that a whole range of products can be brought under the control of other agencies, such as the united nations agencies, starting with agricultural products and pharmaceuticals. for these reasons our group expresses a strongly negative opinion of the report presented to this house.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the application of wto rules by china (b6-0230/2005).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this case is closely linked to the lives of thousands of businesses and the employment of millions of european citizens, including 570,000 italians in the textile sector alone - then there is the shoe industry and other sectors all of which are destined to be affected by the chinese tsunami. the end of import quotas due to the expiry of the multifibre arrangement, the entry into force of the eu-china bilateral agreement of 2000 and the infringement of the ec mark were the subject of three questions which, on 6 january this year, i addressed to the council and the commission to find out - concerned about the consequences - what action the commission intended to take given that the principles on which the wto rules are based (environment, labour, non-harmfulness of products, infringement) were being violated by china. the answers were interlocutory and even today the commission, perhaps imprisoned by a misunderstood legal tyranny, acts more like a notary than a political and governmental body. the impact of reach on the competitiveness of enterprises will also have to be taken into account: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the picture is almost complete when one considers that relocations favour large european companies but impoverish a europe from which white collar workers and capital, together with equipment and machinery, emigrate and where thousands of unemployed cling to the hope of social values. the europe of knowledge, research and innovation cannot be separated from the europe of competitive production. it's a cause and effect principle. a great and humble friar, st. benedict of norcia, loved to repeat to each of his confreres: "ora et labora", so that the abstractness of prayer does not distract you from the reality of life. we must reflect on the great resources we still have, on the many objective 1 regions, on the support policies. we must develop a new strategy, we must also take account of the poverty and the needs of europe itself, and of the requirements of its harmonious development. it is also necessary to assess whether the weak regions can really hope for real development and whether their territories can become attractive places for the relocation of european firms. this could perhaps be achieved by creating in those regions equipped business areas and a modern system of advantageous taxation.
the other speakers on the list are now in session: there are 20 speakers registered to speak and depending on the distribution of time between the groups, most of these talks are for one or two minutes. i realize that it is very difficult to make a speech in one minute, but we also have technical problems with the closure of this part-session and the departure of many colleagues will be disturbed by a strike at strasbourg airport. i have to enforce the time limits.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you today to be particularly firm and to act promptly in dealing with this dossier. she explained what she had done and what answers she was expecting. let us say that the opening of the investigation seemed to us to be late. the worrying figures were already coming in january, february, march and april, with an abnormal - absolutely exceptional - increase in imports of chinese products. the serious damage suffered by the textile industry is evident, and this is one of the conditions laid down in the wto treaties for the application of safeguard clauses. we believe that china is testing the limits of the application of the treaty, and europe must show some responsibility. we are all very happy about china's accession to the wto, we have contributed to this goal; we are not asking you, commissioner, for protectionism or a return to the old logic of tariffs, but for europe to be strong and firm in enforcing the rules it has signed up to against china. it is clear that this country is making an effort, i am talking about china, to become the manufacturing center of the whole world. today it is the textile sector, tomorrow the mechanical sector and then the electronics sector. the response europe will give will be essential and will prepare for future crises in other areas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, agence europe has reported that after the meeting on thursday between commissioner mandelson and the chinese minister of commerce, you reiterated that you do not intend to take any hasty decisions to deal with the flow of chinese products: "there are too many long-term stakes to let the chinese damage our partnership and we need an extra term to make the right adjustments". today, again in this chamber, in the face of the request from some countries, including italy, to adopt urgent procedures for the activation of the safeguard clauses, you tell us that you are examining the dossier. what is the commission's reason for this slowness? what real interests are at stake? how could the textile industry have been so brazenly left to the mercy of events, of what has rightly been called a tsunami. the minister of industry, in the hearing duly organized by president baron crespo, clearly stated the numbers: 100 million workers, working 24 hours a day. this is a war machine and you're dealing with it with legal tricks? this means that we do not want to defend the textile industry and european small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, against the invasion of textile products from china, the urgent adoption, i stress the urgent adoption, of safeguard clauses is an indispensable step. however, a long-term strategy must also be thought through responsibly. the six points i would like to draw the attention of the community institutions to are brief. first of all: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. secondly: a single policy to strengthen customs controls at european level for goods from outside europe. thirdly: the introduction of the extra-eu mark of origin also for products which are only partially produced in third countries. fourth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the euro. five: a european commitment to finally discuss the systematic and unjustifiable devaluation of the chinese currency (yuan) in the wto. sixth and final point: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have appreciated the tone with which you have followed this important dossier on trade relations with china. in defence of europe's interests, but without this involving a leap backwards to the era of impossible, dangerous trade protectionism. but beware, in the field of the textile industry i think there is a problem emerging which is also political. the scale of events is such that the citizens of europe look to us with great anxiety to find an effective way out that only a united europe can indicate: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore adopt effective policies immediately, as you said. in addition to opening consultations with the chinese authorities, concrete measures such as origin labelling to encourage conscious consumption and a more stringent and effective fight against counterfeiting should be promoted. of course, creativity, innovative technology and teamwork between institutions, industry, the social partners and the research community are also needed. i believe that this parliament, together with you, will be ready to play its part in this possible breakthrough.
on behalf of the alde group. the level of information available to european citizens about europe is extremely low, and the reason is not technical but political. today we are voting on a report on the union's information strategy which seeks to improve the techniques and ways in which it advertises itself. however, between these methods and the citizens, a wall of indifference is erected, which is clearly represented by the historical lowest turnout in the 2004 elections: only 45.7 percent. this is not just the result of a bureaucratic communication strategy, but also the result of a europe which is still very far from its citizens, who do not know how it is made, how it came into being, what it is for, who it is for, who it is for, where it leads us, whether it is useful or indifferent to us. let us be clear: this europe is a construction site, so it is clear that its outlines are not yet visible and that it is still, for the time being, the union of the great economic, commercial and industrial powers, much more than a union of peoples and nations. its institutional architecture is strongly affected by this, and the spirit it inspires is not conducive to widespread popular participation. it is from this isolation that the bureaucratic closures have also arisen which have prevented or hindered the relationship with the citizens. in fact, in a europe so differentiated, it makes little sense to have built vertical, one-way information structures from the centre to the periphery, because this has imposed a unified and standardised model of communication which has not been able to work. a model, moreover, in which the citizen must go to seek information and not vice versa: which simply means that no information reaches the vast majority of those concerned. we need a good information centre, a staff of communication specialists, but we also need a decentralised communication concept, which originates in different countries and which conceives this communication from the point of view of different sensitivities and languages. an idea of communication that is not just propaganda. i am convinced that a good way of informing european citizens about europe is to highlight not only the strengths but also the weaknesses, because it is also from these that the real, but unused, possibilities of europe emerge. that is why i think it is useful for all 25 countries to have a referendum, even those, like italy, which are not obliged to do so. it doesn 't matter what the outcome is . the spanish, french and british will eventually know much more than the italians, and that is the right way to communicate to europe, because it is democratic.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, the undersigned has tabled 25 amendments to this report on the basis of what he has heard in this house. where is the line between information and propaganda? it's not very clear. i would ask the commissioner and the european citizens who are following us to pay attention to some of the words in this report, such as 'persuasion', 'promotion' and 'demand'. these terms make me fear that the line between information and propaganda is sometimes dangerously crossed. the concern that emerges is to sell the brand europe, as if we were to sell a can of coca-cola or a pair of shoes. if it is true that in italy, where they did not want the referendum, the citizens do not know the european constitution, and in spain, where they approved it by a large majority, 80% of spaniards did not know the european constitution, i believe that any building project that starts from the roof and not from the foundations is inevitably destined to fail. above all, i shudder to hear that more money is needed, that a new european public channel is needed, that there must be money for those who make films to make us proud to be europeans. i would remind members and the europeans who are listening to us that 250 million euros are already being spent on communication on europe every year. this feeling must come from below, not from above. billions of euros may be invested, but if there is no real democratic process, no one will be proud to be european, according to a report by parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to make a brief comment on rule 126 et seq. of the rules of procedure. yesterday, some of the meetings scheduled for weeks ago between 3 and 5.30 p.m. were cancelled at short notice, some of them after 11 a.m. this was done at the direction of the president because of the debate which was to take place in the plenary at 3 p.m. i fully understand the importance of yesterday's debate, but i do not understand at all that as head of an intergroup i was not informed until 11.10. other colleagues were notified between 8.30 and 11.00. i also cannot understand why we canceled at such short notice and why the president who gave this instruction, unlike us - we should be required to serve in the plenary - is standing in front of a row of visitors in the courtyard of the tower at 4.15 p.m. with a glass of champagne, at a time when we should not have been allowed to meet in the intergroups, working groups and other meetings. i think that is unacceptable! (applause from the centre)
mr president, on the motion on the end of the second world war, the italian delegation voted for the resolution, although it had many doubts about its content. we did so out of a sense of responsibility and because we are aware that it is the result of a compromise between the various souls of this parliament. we also stress that it is not parliament that should write, comment on or confuse history. we therefore deplore the incomprehensible absence in the text of any reference to the european resistance, which played an important part in the defeat of nazism and the building of freedom on this continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's commitment and action - particularly that of the commission and the council - should be directed both at censuring usurping governments - by identifying any foreign interference - and at promoting debt relief towards the international monetary fund and the world bank - in particular by supporting international trade through the formula of fairness and solidarity. in addition, instead of sending aid and demanding development support from ngos, member states should commit themselves directly to training on the ground and better agricultural exploitation by exporting european technologies and skills. for example, the union could directly organise technical teams, made up of young graduates and experienced pensioners, specialising in infrastructure construction, the agro-food processing industry and other sectors, which are still crucial for the development of togo and other similar countries. we shall vote in favour of the resolution.
member of the commission. mr president, the presidential elections held in togo on 24 april of this year gave rise to bitter controversy, with accusations of vote-rigging and violence. the commission has associated itself with strong condemnations of the riots and violence against civilians that followed the announcement of the provisional results and which left a reported number of 50 dead and 300 injured. the violence and the brutal repression by military forces also caused 23 000 togolese to take refuge in neighbouring benin and ghana. given the very tight electoral timetable, under which elections had to take place within 60 days of president eyadema’s death, the european union could not send an electoral observation mission that would have met our usual standards of observation. the european union abstained from any pronouncement on the fairness and transparency of the vote. admittedly, many problems arose during the preparation of the elections, and irregularities were reported by the ecowas electoral observation mission on election day. today, we believe that the utmost priority is the re-establishment of calm and stability and the prevention of any further violence. in order to achieve this, we attach paramount importance to the fulfilment of the 22 commitments undertaken by the government as a result of the consultations held under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. these commitments include respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms, namely press and media freedom, as well as a true political dialogue with all political protagonists in togo, with a view to preparing the next legislative elections. we believe that the effective implementation of the 22 commitments, with close scrutiny from the european union, as well as from the international community, will allow the country to progress towards national reconciliation and democratic development. in conclusion, i would like to assure you and mr smith that we are not just watching, but we have decided that the conditions for the redemption of cooperation established by the council decision of 14 november 2004 remain valid. such a resumption can only take place in the context of the fulfilment of the 22 commitments i just referred to. more specifically, full resumption will not be possible until free, fair and transparent legislative elections, held in an electoral framework accepted by all parties, have taken place. the commission is ready to give its support to the holding of such elections, including the sending of a european union electoral observation mission.
a writer. the commission is not i should like to make a brief statement on behalf of the green group on this motion for a resolution. i am pleased that a clear and unanimous position will be reached on this matter across the political spectrum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i come from south tyrol, a region with ethnic minorities which today is privileged compared to many others. we are still remembering, in the 60th year of liberation from fascism and national socialism, how the state discriminated against minorities by the classic forms of oppression: banning political opposition, attacks on the media by intimidating journalists, discrimination against those who do not speak the language of the people of the state, banning school teaching in the mother tongue, the inaction of the courts against these injustices, and so on. these are always the same means of pressure used by the state against minorities. solidarity from outside is very important. i therefore welcome the fact that today a cry is being heard from this parliament against the russification of the republic of mari el. the small mari language group needs strong international solidarity.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a large majority of my group considers that this motion of censure is inappropriate and will vote against it in june. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i am very sorry that this insistence on alleged irregularities by the commission in financial matters always leads to forgetting that 80 per cent of cases of mismanagement of community money are member states. i would also like to see more activism on the part of my colleagues. we believe that the instrument of the motion of censure does not help the just cause of greater transparency and accountability in the commission at all, and only strengthens the opinion of those who, like mr farage, think that the union should simply be abolished. this does not mean, however, that our political opinion of the work of the commission and its president has changed. i must say that my group is somewhat uncomfortable with the way this debate is being conducted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, we take this opportunity to draw the attention of the president of the commission to the fact that this is only the first, foreseeable consequence of the wrong decision to keep mrs cruz in her post. it is clear that this situation offers a golden opportunity for manipulation and distortion, and of course it multiplies delays and complicates the legitimacy of the proceedings in progress. it is also clear that only greater transparency and a greater willingness to accept the debate immediately can help to avoid falling into these traps. and today the commission is exposed to problems of potential conflicts of interest which have not been rooted out. in conclusion, mr president, we believe that to win the debate, to push farage and his people to the margins of the political debate, we must re-launch your role. you must re-launch your role as guardians of europe's interests. there is currently no positive initiative by the commission in the environmental, social or cultural fields. do something so that the citizens of europe can recognize you and, with you, the full legitimacy of the european plan.
i would like to thank mrs gál for the important work she has done, because the creation of this agency for the defence and promotion of fundamental rights is a useful body both for this institution and for the european union. it is necessary to have an independent body which also has a close link with the european parliament, and it is also important that co-decision procedures between the council and parliament can be established in this area. it is also important to monitor the situation of violations of fundamental rights in third countries. we are too often helpless observers and our cooperation too often favours violations of fundamental rights in third countries. i think one point to be made is the difference between this agency and the european court of human rights. the european court of justice will deal with individual cases, while this agency will have the task of monitoring a political system as a whole, including legal instruments which may not be in conformity with generally accepted human rights standards. i think this is a very important issue, because all too often we in the european parliament denounce cases of human rights violations without being able to prevent them from happening again. today, for example, a boat sank off lampedusa. if it was the first time, you could have thought of a case. but such events are happening too often and it is therefore necessary to evaluate the legislation in force carefully.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a young italian woman, who has been working in the field of cooperation for children, has been kidnapped in afghanistan for several days now. we therefore call on our colleagues in this house to sign a call for his release. several members, including mr brok, vice-president of the committee on foreign affairs, have already signed this appeal to the afghan people to isolate the kidnappers and to help free the young clementine. we ask all colleagues to help us by signing the appeal or, if they prefer, to send an email to the afghan embassy in brussels and to the mainstream media in kabul. i believe that the european parliament, which received president karzai in strasbourg last week and is helping the afghan people to return to normalcy, has a duty in this tragic event to make its voice heard and its solidarity with this young woman.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like to stress, however, a few points which give rise to further reflection. the third directive is being discussed, but it is not yet clear what the effects of the second directive have been. this excessive and spasmodic rush, which should have led us to consider money laundering also in the context of the fight against terrorism, has produced, in my view, an acceleration, whereas some further reflection would have been necessary. in particular, i think that there is too much emphasis on the subject of suspicion, whereas we should perhaps be doing more about certainty, ensuring individual guarantees. the second element which, in my view, remains open concerns the lawyers' knot. in this connection, i think that the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights raises a number of points which parliament must consider further.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for having been misinformed about the timetable, but i think i can recover very quickly. we are few in number in this chamber tonight and we are discussing seemingly marginal subjects, but i remain convinced that europe is built on details, and these are important details. the two reports on which i have worked, which are linked to mr koch's report, were basically dealing with small issues: the problem of safety belts, in the case of the koch report, and, in my case, the technical consequences of anchoring and the method of protecting the head of the passenger on buses. it seemed to be a very simple matter, and it is, because we finally decided to follow the commission's proposal not to allow the further use of side seats in buses because the safety belts cannot be fastened with the same certainty and safety as those of the front seats of buses. but we did spot a little problem, which is innovation. in fact, the idea of buses equipped for conferences, i.e. the possibility of sitting around a table even in a bus, is spreading in some countries, especially in germany. this posed the double problem of safety, which must be guaranteed, and the possibility of allowing a different service. the solution reached is to authorize the experiment, allowing the use of these conference buses for five years, at the end of which an assessment of the percentage of accidents is made - which we hope will be as low as possible - already assessed by the commission but in relation to a swiss experiment, so that it can be extended to the whole of the union. this procedure may enable us to decide in a few years' time whether (and how) we should still eliminate side seats where speeds are higher than those normally held in urban centres or whether this new service can be continued. i think that the compromise reached - albeit with greater difficulty than i expected - with the council on the commission's proposal is a good solution and that this will allow us to vote tomorrow with calm and favourably on the reports which have been tabled. i hope my colleagues will do so.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal on nutrition and health information is based on the fact that consumers are increasingly interested in having clear information on the nutritional and health value of food and that the agri-food industry needs to respond to this pressing need with clear, accurate and meaningful information that is scientifically supported. all this in a framework of harmonised market rules to enable operators in the sector to compete according to regulated parameters of fairness and equity. healthy eating and good health are an inseparable pair of reference points for consumer behaviour, with consumers now paying much more attention to their diet and becoming more concerned about what they eat and how food affects their health. if this is the behaviour of the average consumer, the agri-food industry has tried to respond to this behaviour by providing more detailed nutrition labelling and information on the supposed or actual benefits of certain foods. the two basic directives in force in the union - directives 2000/13 and 90/496 respectively, on labelling and nutrition labelling of foodstuffs - are not only frequently not properly applied, but also do not meet current consumer demands, since they do not allow data on the claimed health benefits to be provided and do not clearly define the conditions for the use of nutrition information. in addition, the absence of specific provisions at european level has led to a proliferation of indications on food labels, varying in number and type. the member states have themselves adopted autonomous measures and rules to regulate the use of the various indications. the result is a state of regulatory disorder, with different approaches to the same subject, which has led to a state of confusion that produces neither the proper functioning of the internal market nor the protection of public health and consumers. in the face of this legal uncertainty, the need for harmonisation at community level of foodstuffs rules and, therefore, for a regulation voluntarily indicating the basic conditions for food information to be absolutely true for consumers, without prohibiting any foodstuff, is a further step forward in the implementation of the nutrition policy included in the objectives proposed by the commission since 1999 with the white paper on food safety, which expressly states that the union's food policy must be based on strict food safety rules that allow the protection and promotion of consumer health. to these objectives must be added the objective of improving the free movement of the product, since the creation of a regulation will enable operators to be competitive on a fair and just basis in all member states. in the document under consideration, the commission proposed the establishment of a new regulatory framework for nutrition and health claims, authorizing the use of nutrition claims provided that they comply with the provisions set out in the annex, which contains a list of nutrition claims accompanied by specific conditions of use: the use of health claims at the end of an authorisation or notification procedure (if the commission text were to remain unchanged). the commission proposes to establish, through the procedures provided for in article 93 (2), specific nutritional profiles for foods or categories of foods within 18 months, which could be extended to 30 months, and, after consultation of the food safety authority, specific nutritional profiles for foods or categories of foods, and the adoption of a community list of health claims describing the generally accepted role of a food or other substance on the basis of proposals submitted by the member states. in determining the nutritional profiles, the commission consults both food business operators and consumer associations, as well as seeking the opinion of the authority, which is seen to strengthen its role through its participation in the different phases and procedures. it should be noted at this stage that two years have not passed in vain since the presentation, since all the parties concerned - the commission itself, the council, parliament, industry, consumers, the economic and social committee - have made significant progress. the committee on the environment has, however, made a number of changes to the text presented by the commission, notably by deleting article 4, which in my view is a very important article because it defines the nutritional profiles. moreover, the regulation, in its coherence and complexity, would be nothing if this article were not reinstated, which i hope my colleagues will want to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mr mato adrover, for the work he has put into this report, which is a sum of statements of principle which, although largely agreeable, are sometimes contradictory, particularly when it comes to promoting employment and working conditions, and especially when it comes to providing flexibility and job security, without specifying how. that is why we agree with several of the amendments which have been tabled, which supplement and improve the text. this is the case, for example, of amendments nos 12, 20 and 23 to the adrover report. the same applies to amendment no 13, tabled by the rapporteur, mrs lulling, on behalf of the committee on gender equality. i think that parliament's efforts are useful in supplementing the original text, but i hope that, as the legislative process proceeds, the necessary steps will be taken to reduce the precariousness of work and to ensure security of social security guarantees, and that limits will be placed on temporary, fixed-term, rented work, especially when it is used repeatedly. it would be essential to provide for forms of worker participation in the management and profits of enterprises, which are the best means of raising the quality of the product of work and enhancing the dignity of the worker himself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a series of proposals and measures which link up the aspects of social growth, employment and economic growth. this means that we are aware that today's global competitiveness and trends are placing europe before great challenges for its future. as regards, more specifically, the document on the social agenda and the employment plan, we are aware that these challenges also put the european social model to the test, of which we are often proud and which we illustrate to the world as a peculiarity of a society which has managed to reconcile economic growth, industrial development and innovation at the same time, while also maintaining a social model and a strong social dimension of this economic and institutional model. as i have said before, i too believe that europe must face these challenges with great clarity of objectives and extremely effective instruments, but also with great ambition, because if the challenges are great, the ambition must be great. i therefore share the view expressed by my predecessors that our social agenda must also have an ambitious horizon, that is to say, it must set out a framework of programmes - addressed to citizens, businesses and social forces - which explains that europe wants to build, together with citizens, certainties and provide instruments that help to foster confidence and security. as regards instruments, in reviewing the lisbon strategy today, we all understood the importance of integration and the importance of the possibility of creating synergies between our efforts to promote the development of small and mediumsized enterprises and entrepreneurial and industrial innovation, in order to create a more prosperous economic environment, together and in synergy - not after or alongside - a social dimension, a social policy. i believe that a society is successful when it is able to offer its citizens opportunities. i believe that the growth of human capital through the rehabilitation of the disadvantaged, the possibility of new training and employment opportunities for women, a wide range of training for young people, who today are experiencing more of this dimension of uncertainty, are tools that contribute to both social cohesion and economic growth and prosperity. there is no such thing as an economically strong society if there are serious inequalities and diversity within it and if its human capacity is being lost. i therefore believe that the policy of inclusion as a whole, the policy of focusing on women's employment and the reference to young people are key elements for a social policy of strong cohesion and, at the same time, for a policy of economic growth and development in our europe. in that europe which - as my colleague in the group has said - must now, in its new dimension, reduce diversity, calling on all the member states to promote a policy of cohesion and internal integration in this respect.
member of the commission. mr president, in these final moments of the debate i would first of all like to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteurs, and in particular to the rapporteur on the broad economic policy guidelines, mr goebbels, for the excellent work they have done. i think there were many more positive comments during the debate on the reports. i would like to refer to one particular aspect of the procedure. it is true that this year the time limits for debate so that the commission and the council can take account of parliament's views expressed in these reports have been particularly short, but this is due to the beginning of the cycle and the very tight timetable that we have set for all the institutions to start this new cycle of economic policy coordination, on the horizon of a review of the lisbon strategy. i hope that next year the deadlines will be longer and that we can all work much more effectively, taking parliament's views into account, no doubt. secondly, i think that the speeches show that there is a very broad basic consensus on three requirements for the european union as a whole to increase its economic growth, its growth potential and therefore its ability to create more jobs and to move towards all the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the quality of public finances must be improved, the quality of public spending must be improved - and i agree with some of the comments and contributions that have been made - the sustainability dimension must be introduced into public policies, structural reforms and public accounts - as some of your honourable members have mentioned - but we must also maintain the view that budgetary discipline and sound public finances are necessary, because without them none of the other objectives can be achieved. the revision of the lisbon strategy, the reform of the stability pact, which we are going to discuss in this parliament in a few days' time, and i hope that the new financial perspectives for the period 2007-13 will also be in line with this approach, starting with the european council in june. let me make one last comment: it is true, as has been said, that structural reforms are difficult to initiate and implement in a low-growth scenario, but it is also true that the countries which are growing the most are those which have implemented reforms, as has been said in the debate. so we do not want to turn this debate into a square circle: more growth is needed and reforms are a must, we will have to decide what is reformed and how it is reformed, but the very fact of reform, of improving the functioning of product markets and the labour market, of improving the quality of public accounts and of incorporating an element of more research, development, innovation and knowledge into public actions seems not to be a matter for discussion. the way to combine the necessary reforms and the necessary acceptance of the reforms cannot be written in a communication, it is a political element of political leadership.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i can say with my colleague that the debate has shown a broad mainstream agreement with the commission's proposals. it is obvious, and i think it is appropriate to highlight a few basic approaches from the debate, which are, after all, also present in various forms in the materials which the commission has presented. the first is that europe must be qualitatively competitive if it is to compete globally. it is not therefore competitiveness based on low wages and extensive factors, but competitiveness based on the development of innovation, science, development and, of course, the development of human capacities, what we call 'human capital'. the second approach, which is also obvious and has been appreciated, is the overall approach, i.e. the coordinated approach, which recognises that things are a complex whole and that we cannot take the individual components out of context in the hope of achieving some success. it is also clear that, while the commission is convinced that quality competitiveness is an essential element for growth, it is also clear in the formulation of the growth and jobs strategy that the commission does not take the view that growth alone solves everything, that it does not need to be accompanied by other active policies. in the general debate, i think the question of the degree of generality of the concepts presented was discussed in a very difficult way. i think it is clear that we can always have a debate on this and i am also sure that the debate which parliament has had will enrich the final shape of the european strategic documents, because these documents have two purposes. of course, to formulate a coherent policy based on our values, and that is the value of a socially cohesive society, economically efficient, providing a high quality of life, i think there is no doubt about that, but apart from looking for a way to formulate good strategic documents, the second issue that has also been mentioned here many times is the effort to formulate a common european will. a will that allows us to work together in harmony to pursue goals based on our values and to cope with the challenges that life presents. ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you on behalf of the commission that we will make every effort to ensure that the results of the parliamentary debate are reflected in the final documents to be discussed in the council at the beginning of june.
mr van den burg, we cannot turn this debate into a new debate. i can only give you the floor again if it is a point of order.
member of the commission. the working time directive is an extremely important document, there is no doubt about that, and i think that the views i expressed in the previous discussion, in the previous debate on the directive, were formulated with the greatest responsibility on my part. the european model of european integration is characterised by the search for a complex compromise between the european institutions, the member states, parliament, the council and the commission. i am prepared to make every effort to help formulate a compromise which will be supported by the largest possible majority in the next debate on the directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and resumed at 11.05 a.m.)
thank you, mr. president, i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. as reformists, we want to highlight some of those which we believe should be guidelines for action. first, policies must be promoted to allow easier and fairer mechanisms for access, retention and participation in the labour market, especially for those categories (young people, women, the disabled, immigrants and minorities in general) who today have greater difficulties in integrating into the production system. policies on occupational safety should be implemented and harmonised, reducing health risks: the pages of the newspapers too often tell stories that are inconceivable to our european society. equal treatment must be promoted by concrete measures. education and training systems must be constantly adapted and updated to the needs of a market which is constantly changing and changing in a dynamic way. finally, the promotion of good industrial relations must be ensured through improved information and consultation of workers, and greater and better interaction and cooperation with the trade union partners must be provided for, so that real social and territorial cohesion is possible. much has been done, much remains to be done to lay the foundations for building a fairer and more just european system.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the outcome of the vote in parliament. the european parliament and the commission have jointly decided to have a new instrument at their disposal, which opens up new prospects for cooperation and joint work. this agreement covers all the issues that are dear to our institutions and at the heart of european democracy: the commission's political accountability to parliament, transparency, cooperation in the legislative, budgetary and international fields. we have strengthened the role of each of our two institutions. we have shown that the european institutions are capable of acting in concert, in a spirit of loyal and fruitful cooperation, in line with the existing treaties. the commission has put into practice the intention which i had from the beginning of our relations, namely to establish a positive complicity and a strategic and lasting partnership with parliament. i am pleased to be able to sign this agreement with you, mr president, in the presence of the vice-president, mrs wallström, responsible for relations with parliament. on behalf of the commission, i am sure that this agreement represents further progress in the cooperation of our institutions in the construction of our europe.
mr president, since i have to object to the order of votes on rule 3a and rule 4, i wonder whether i should do so now or wait until amendment no 29 is voted on.
the rapporteur. mr president, although i did not ask to speak, i would like to inform the house that article 4 is being reintroduced, which restores the nutritional profiles that the committee on the environment has decided to abolish. i strongly recommend that this amendment be adopted because it will help to give the whole regulation a new meaning.
mr president, i do not wish to comment on the substance of this amendment, but i would just like to point out that voting first on this new article 3, dealing with amendments nos 99 and 32, is perhaps acceptable from a formal point of view but not from a substantive point of view, since the new article 3 is nothing but a new version, a cover to reintroduce the contents of article 4. this is so true that if you had the courage (or the misfortune) to read amendment no 99 and compare it with amendment no 88, you would find that they are identical, except for one small detail concerning the dates. i therefore think it is more appropriate to vote on the amendments to article 4 as such and, only afterwards and if necessary, to deal with those concerning the new article 3, which would surreptitiously replace article 4.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner kallas, i should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to mr busuttil for his excellent work as shadow rapporteur. i would like to speak to you on the eve of our vote on the way in which the work of olaf was assessed in the bösch report. i have considered it my responsibility to defend the young community investigative body, which has never been censured by any judicial body, either community or national, but which has been the subject of ruthless campaigns of denigration and destabilisation, through disturbing triangulation, to which some circles in this parliament are no strangers. i am very sorry to note that mr bösch's report also seems to be inspired by unfair, instrumental and biased attitudes towards olaf. i think in particular that it was premature and inappropriate to include the reference to a special report of the european ombudsman against olaf which, only after the report had been completed, would have been published with surprising and chronometric timing. moreover, this reference, which i consider to be unacceptable political interference in a delicate investigation into suspicion of corruption which is still ongoing, was brought to the attention of parliament by means of an oral amendment which, however, seems to ignore two far more authoritative judgments of the court of first instance and the court of justice in favour of olaf. ladies and gentlemen, let us leave the judicial bodies to speak for themselves on the matter of investigations, and let us all ensure that olaf never becomes, as some people seem to want, the trojan horse of political battles and partisan interests. for my part, i will continue to fight and ensure that olaf is always an effective and impartial instrument for the defence of the legality and financial interests of the european union. i am convinced that parliament will also be a spokesman for this battle. the crisis which europe is experiencing in the eyes of its citizens these days requires the most responsible attitudes on the part of all.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mrs brepoels for the work she has done, which we have done together, and the alde group welcomes the report, because it represents a very important coordination between the member states. however, it regrets the council's reductive approach, on the one hand because it has limited itself to environmental applications and on the other because it has made little use of the commission's coordination capacity. the commission can play a much more important role. such a reductive approach will lead in the future to the need to review these issues, when it will be necessary to generalise the document under consideration and to understand the possibilities of application which will soon be extended by the availability of satellite constellations, in particular galileo, such as, for example, the possibility of assistance to air, land and sea navigation, the possibility of supporting the use and monitoring of the territory, which is not yet brought to its logical consequences, and the collection of statistical data with georeferenced reference, which could give suggestions for further correlations. in the legislative process, however, we must also bear in mind the need to draw up fewer documents of a more general nature. i hope therefore that we can return to this subject, precisely to make it an extremely important instrument, because we need it far beyond the environmental field.
member of the commission. mr president, i am having difficulties in that regard, although i have had discussions with people in the insurance industry. on my recent trip to the united states i raised the issue with some of the insurance commissioners. as the honourable member will well know, one – though not the only –difficulty with this issue is that in the united states each state has responsibility for that particular area. at least in the member states of the european union you can go to one regulatory supervisor in the member state, you can go to the european union for this particular directive; but in the united states each state has responsibility in this area and each state appoints its own insurance commissioners. it was believed that great strides had been made in recent years and the insurance industry on this side of the atlantic had been working very hard and thought they had reached an understanding of how things would move forward. but then it all broke down, because the insurance commissioners change on a pretty regular basis in the united states. so one can appreciate the difficulties. during my recent trip to the united states in april, i raised this matter and now the talks are ongoing again. but i would like to underline the difficulties, which are mostly related to the issue to which i have just referred.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by mrs agnes schierhuber, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com (2004) 0490) c6-0181/2004 2004/0161 (cns)) (a6-0145/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, at the outset let me apologise for my fellow commissioner, mrs fischer boel. she has been delayed, but will be here before the end of the debate. i wish to begin by thanking mrs schierhuber and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all their work on this report. the committee adopted the report with 129 amendments. i shall comment only on some of the major points. some amendments reduced the minimum percentages of funding for the three axes, maintained the proposed funding for leader and eliminated the reserve for this approach. this should give more flexibility to the programming priorities of the member states. i understand this need and i also welcome the fact that the european parliament agrees on the need for minimum percentages. this is crucial if we want to ensure balanced programmes that address the wide variety of challenges in rural areas. the commission is prepared to accept the reduction of the minimum percentages. however, i consider that the reduction for axis 3 – quality of life and diversification of the rural economy – from 15 to 8% is too large, and would affect negatively the necessary balance between the axes, i.e. amendments 17, 43, 44, 115, 117 and 118. please do not forget that measures under axis 3, if used correctly, could contribute significantly to promoting economic growth and job creation in rural areas. this is clearly in the interests of our farmers and their families and is closely linked to what we want to achieve under the lisbon strategy. other amendments bring together the strategic and operational planning and reduce reporting procedures to two reports for the whole financial period – amendments 34 to 41. i am sceptical on the first point, since the strategy would precede the operational planning. however, i am prepared to compromise on a reduced frequency of the strategic monitoring, biannual instead of annual. i would stress that robust reporting is essential for accountability and for explaining to europe's citizens the contribution of our policy to agriculture and rural areas. i can in principle accept the main amendments to axis 1 – amendments 54, 63, 65 (in part), 66 and 67. they concern the extension of support for young farmers to subsidised loans, the requirement that forest management plans be a function of the size of the holding, the extension of support to minimum- sized enterprises for the processing and marketing of agricultural products (in the forestry sector, however, the support will remain limited to micro-enterprises), the inclusion of reparcelling among eligible support for infrastructures, focussing predominantly on operations aimed at improving competitiveness, support for the cooperation between actors in the food chain and for the transfer of knowledge. i come now to axis 2, which concerns amendments 73, 79 and parts of 69, 76 and 81. the commission is in principle prepared to accept or partially accept amendments on: the inclusion of the conservation of genetic diversity, the inclusion of payments linked to the water framework directive, not to consider the requirements for pesticide and fertiliser use as additional to mandatory requirements but as part of them, a more flexible approach towards the duration of agri-environmental commitments, the eligibility of high nature value areas among non-productive investments, and the inclusion of loss of income criteria for natura 2000 payments in forestry. finally, some of the proposed amendments are difficult to accept for various reasons. a number of them go beyond the scope of the commission's proposal and existing norms, thus risking diluting their policy effects. others make unnecessary specifications which are already included in more general concepts. in conclusion, i can accept or partially accept some of the fundamental amendments proposed in your report. the other amendments i cannot accept. i wish to thank the members of the european parliament again for their positive and constructive contribution to european rural policy.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to say that the commission is fully aware of the problems facing the rural areas and that it is not possible to avoid the problems of the rural areas. cutting funding to rural development means cutting resources to food security, environmental protection, landscape initiatives, product quality and job creation. the report adopted by the committee on agriculture attaches great importance to measures to support young farmers, who must be encouraged not to abandon the countryside and to orient their activities in a competitive and sustainable way. the effort of mr schierhuber to maintain resources for rural development is to be commended, but the reduction in the percentages of compulsory expenditure on three axes is a cause for concern. it would have been better to have kept the commission's proposal, because lowering rates means giving the member states more discretion in the management of resources and therefore a weaker and less effective european policy. the commission proposal for a reserve to be allocated to the best-spending countries to promote and reward the best projects should also be maintained in relation to the leader initiative. it is also essential that national implementation plans are consistent with the community's strategic objectives and the strengthening of partnerships is an essential tool for achieving these objectives. finally, to turn rural development into a genuine territorial policy, it must be consistent and integrated with all other community policies. these are fundamental elements of the lisbon and gothenburg strategies which we cannot renounce if we want to revive europe, its objectives and its values.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank you for the very valuable and constructive contribution you have made with your opinion on the rural development regulation. i am convinced that your concerns, particularly substantial on the first and second axes, have helped us to understand better the key issues that are important to the european citizens whom you represent in this parliament. i should like to comment on a few of the issues raised here tonight. first of all, the minimum spending rates, which several members mentioned. the commission is open to a balance between axes, leaving more margin to the member states. however, the proposed rate of 8% for axis 3, compared to the 15% proposed by the commission, is too little. please do not forget that measures under axis 3, if used correctly, can contribute significantly to promoting economic growth and job creation in rural areas. this is clearly in the interest of farmers and their families and it is closely linked to what we want to achieve under the lisbon strategy. someone mentioned the need for members to be allowed to prioritise rural development funds on the third axis. they have plenty of room to do this with the minimum rates that we have proposed. but we also need to ensure that member states have a minimum of balance so that they address the variety of challenges in rural areas. regarding young farmers: they need to have the business plan. apart from agri-environment, the commission is not willing to make other measures compulsory. if there is a real problem for young farmers in a member state, the national strategy should address it and propose the appropriate measures. on the other hand, the business plans should not be over prescriptive at this stage. if needed, additional provisions can be included in the implementing regulations. as commissioner mccreevy already mentioned, we also accept the extension of support for young farmers to subsidise loans. i also noted your comments on the grace period for young farmers concerning the minimum standards. let me be very clear on this: there cannot be a blank cheque for young farmers. in principle, they have to comply with cross-compliant standards just as other farmers have to do. however, i am prepared to consider one exception to this principle: when a young farmer takes over a farm that has problems in meeting one standard or another, he can identify this deficit in his business plan and provide for the action needed to address the problems. in this case, it would make sense to give him some time to adapt and during this period we would not penalise him for non-compliance with the standards concerned. on less-favoured areas, you asked me to look at the inclusion of socio-economic criteria and phasing-out periods for areas that have lost their status. the commission proposed a change as regards the present intermediate less-favoured areas. mountain areas and specific less-favoured areas remain as they are today. member states are requested to confirm or to modify their current delimination in their programmes. but for the intermediate less-favoured areas, there is an agreement that we need to change the approach in the light of the criticism from the european court of auditors, which is also shared by this parliament. the commission recognises that more time is needed for this work and that we need to review the criteria we have proposed so far. let us, however, keep in mind that the criteria we use have to be objective to the wto to be able to fit into the green box. in this context, a phasing-out period for the existing intermediate less-favoured areas can be considered. in 2008, the commission will present to parliament and to the council a report accompanied by a proposal in view of an entry into force in 2010. you also suggested we bring the co-financing rate for the outermost regions and the greek islands up to 85%, as is proposed in the cohesion policy regulation. please let me explain why we proposed a slightly different approach. firstly, like you, i believe that the co-financing rates for these regions should be higher. this is why we proposed a co-financing rate that is actually 5% higher for each axis. however, it is good to maintain a certain differentiation between the axes to express the importance that we attach to the second and the fourth. the cohesion policy proposal does not distinguish between axes and, therefore, has no such differentiation. in addition, we offer in our proposal a number of specific advantages to operators in the outermost regions. such specific advantages do not exist under the cohesion policy. some of you mentioned modulation money to be targeted only against the first and the second axis. this is not possible, because once the modulation amounts are made available they are part of the programming as a whole and should be allocated based on needs identified in the national strategic programmes. on natura 2000, we have to strike a delicate balance. rural development funds can, and should, contribute, but they can never be the only source of funding to solve this problem. it is very important for me to underline that there must be other sources so that rural development is not the only banker. i believe that with our new regulation, including the improvements made by the european parliament, we will have a solid basis for our rural development in future. however, we also need the money, which many of you have mentioned tonight. the financial perspective will be the moment of truth. i hope i can count on your support to make it possible to maintain as much money as possible in this very important area. i thank you once again for your excellent work. i heard mr mulder say that the rapporteur had given a vintage performance. i completely agree. it has been a pleasure for me to cooperate with the members of the committee on agriculture.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measures listed in the hague programme, particularly in relation to money laundering, terrorist financing and the exchange of information between the countries of the european union, must be implemented swiftly and effectively. that is one of the aims of the report to which i am a signatory. this objective must be achieved while respecting the confidentiality of personal data - a point which many colleagues have insisted on in this debate - in order to strengthen freedom, security and justice in the european union, which are strongly threatened by international terrorism. terrorism is financed primarily through arms and drug trafficking, and it is clear that transactions by such entities presiding over such trafficking involve official banking and financial institutions. therefore, measures to prevent and counter terrorist financing should focus on these individuals. in this respect, we welcome the commitment made on behalf of the commission by commissioner frattini, whom we thank for his report, and for the timely submission to the european parliament of a proposal for a regulation on the traceability of financial transactions. this initiative, which we welcome from the commission, seems to us to be concrete, rapid and effective. there is also the equally important issue of judicial cooperation. how can a single judge - and in italy there are many who are strongly and effectively engaged in counter-terrorism action - act without an adequate instrument for cooperation and exchange of information? this is a problem that has yet to be solved. i do not wish to underestimate the concern expressed by many colleagues on the issue of the protection of personal data, but there is a priority need: it's about stifling terrorist powerhouses that threaten citizens. we must think carefully about the need for cooperation in the exchange of data, about the need for a tool which will make it possible in real time, with effective measures and interventions, to prevent terrorism, in order to avoid crocodile tears over the hundreds of deaths from bombings or, even worse, acts of biological terrorism. it is clear that the organisation and operational development of terrorist networks require a continuous evolution of means and methodologies, including infiltration. from this point of view, while i have enormous respect for the work and dedication of non-profit organizations, i felt it necessary to emphasize the real danger, already documented by many investigations, of infiltration of non-profit charities by terrorist groups. these organisations should ensure maximum transparency in the management of funds, use only official bank accounts and regular financial channels and make their accounts public also to protect the non-profit sector, which is a pride of european civil society. we must not forget the implementation of the recommendations of the fatf (financial action group), which are of great importance in the development of new rules for bank transfers, which are absolutely necessary to identify the origin and the recipients, who must not hide behind the screen of shell companies. i would like to conclude by recalling the still entirely unresolved problem of financial and tax havens, inside and outside the territory of the european union, which can still provide a protective screen for those international terrorist organisations which threaten the security and tranquility of european citizens.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence of the national defence strategy document adopted by the united states of america in march 2005 reads: america and the world are fighting a war. this is the ideological premise which has produced in recent years the theorising of preventive war, the violation of individual freedoms, the end of the protection of personal data and the obsession with security. terrorism is a very serious crime that must be condemned and fought. but it cannot be fought with military means and i believe that europe must distance itself from this approach. we need to look closely at the war-terrorism spiral: the military response has made terrorism stronger, we cannot avoid this issue. in afghanistan, the military occupation has led to an exponential growth in opium production, which is being financed by al qaeda. in iraq the war has fuelled the strength of terrorist groups, not all of them of religious inspiration, which is why the anti-islamic obsession must be removed from some of the reports under consideration in this parliament. this obsession also reveals a cultural inferiority to the united states of america. president bush has called on islamic regimes to restrict, monitor and record all donations made by muslims to charitable organizations. however, we cannot regard non-profit organizations, as some speakers in this house do, as the main source of funding for terrorism. we must avoid overly simplistic equations such as: terrorism equals immigration or terrorism equals islam. terrorism must be fought and defeated: the aim is noble, the methods too often improper and sometimes criminal. terrorism is a crime against humanity, but i do not think it is necessary to appoint an international criminal court as the place to judge such crimes, also because it is unacceptable that massacres of civilians in military actions are not judged by anyone. too often sovereignty provides for the criminal irresponsibility of the prince. a leading legal scholar asserted that the legal history of the state in the west is that of the programming of its innocence with respect to criminal acts. i believe that to fight terrorism we must question the old adage of law that the king is never wrong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak before the vote on the amendment, which in fact repeats the paragraph already adopted. this parliament has twice condemned preventive war, and i think that is a good sign.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the european parliament will have its first opportunity to react to the uncertainty caused by the outcome of the french and dutch referendums. the böge report is a good report, balanced and consistent with the prodi commission proposal. it maintains an adequate level of resources for the union, ensures that regions whose development is lagging behind continue to benefit from union support, seeks to penalize no one because of enlargement, focuses on cohesion but also on competitiveness, giving a prominent role to research and technological innovation. these are the arguments put forward by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, whose report was taken into account by the rapporteur, mr böge, whom i thank for that. however, beyond the improvements that can be made, it is important to consider the practical and symbolic value of parliament's approval of this text. the positive signal is twofold: the agreement reached within the time limits set and, in particular, the refusal to drastically reduce resources, are a demonstration of the will not to give in to the temptation of renationalisation. this vote must be seen as an appeal to the european council next week to reach an agreement which is as close as possible to our position. we do not think that the council's latest proposal is going in the right direction. that is why, as president barroso says, and i appreciate his statement, we need a revival, and this, mr president, is the first crucial decision for such a revival of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr böge on his ability to sum up the various trends that have emerged and, therefore, on the good work he has done. i should also like to make a brief comment on the trilogy: parliament, the commission and the council. the first two are the assurance that commitment appropriations will remain at or slightly below their present level (1,18% and 1,24%). the council is instead defending the prerogatives of the member states, which are worried - and even more so after the vote in france and the netherlands on the constitution - about the malaise that is enveloping the union like a gnawing disease and are under the illusion that by reducing funds they are saving their respective positions exposed to the risks posed by china, india, the usa, global revolution, competitiveness and innovation. ours is a composite society, living beyond its means and increasingly at risk from rigid institutions, a limited sovereign government and a soulless central bank. to reduce the number of interventions now instead of increasing them, as i believe is necessary... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a committed europeanist, but also as an italian member of parliament who is also here to represent and defend the interests of his country, i find the so-called juncker proposal unacceptable, which fixes the member states' contribution to the european budget at a meagre 1.05% of gdp. this means, for italy alone, which is a net contributor to the european union, a cut of some eight billion euros a year, which cuts to the bone the funds for employment and justice and cancels almost half the funds for research, innovation and trans-european networks, with the good will of the lisbon strategy. there are too many cuts and too many contradictions. the so-called british cheque should also be revised. the exception, the privilege of obtaining a substantial refund of the contributions paid by great britain, must be abolished. this is a measure that mrs thatcher wanted - if i am not mistaken in 1984 - but which was unfortunately, and incomprehensibly, reaffirmed during the prodi presidency: a reimbursement paid in large part by france and italy. in conclusion, the juncker proposal is yet another demonstration of the abysmal distance between the european bureaucracy and the real needs of the european people.
mr president, representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the referendum has had such a strong impact on the political debate and the psychology of the citizens that some commentators have been led to ask whether, after the great peacemaking mission undertaken by europe, there is still any need for the european institutions. we know very well that europe is not only useful but necessary. however, for europe to be useful, cohesive and competitive, and thus perceived as necessary by its citizens, it must be able to develop its policies and be provided with the resources to do so. this may seem trivial, but it is the whole point of the battle that parliament is waging over the financial perspective. i can see how much the rapporteur of this parliament, reiner böge, has managed to translate into a text which i consider satisfactory, realistic but not compromising. of course, the question for each of us is: "will we be able to reach an agreement with the council? " the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president barroso has spoken clearly and decisively this afternoon, and we appreciate that. president juncker should put his great negotiating skills to work towards a worthy agreement and avoid being dragged into endless bilateral mediation which risks, among other things, penalising some people unfairly and unjustifiably. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to defend by a broad and united vote the right and duty of the union to exist and to operate.
mr president, mr president of the commission, representatives of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress first of all that one of the main merits of the work of the rapporteur, mr böge, is that he sees the process of european integration as a political dynamic in full swing, with high-profile goals and ambitions. confidence, prospects and momentum: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would therefore like to thank mr böge above all for his very wise and balanced work, which has involved a complex analysis and has resulted in effective policy proposals. this is all the more remarkable when one considers the difficult climate, especially the pressure of the blind rigorist impulses, in which his work began and has continued to this day. the resolution gives us the priorities through which europe's revival passes: the inviolability of cohesion policy; the importance of promoting the competitiveness and development of the union; the need for an ever more effective common policy in the field of justice and home affairs; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial framework for the period 1994 to 1999 is based on the principle of the need to give impetus to external relations and the integration process of the single market, and to make the most of the concept of flexibility in order to make the european financial framework more flexible and effective. however, we cannot hide the fact that the position of the european parliament, as outlined in the böge report, differs considerably from the working document presented by the luxembourg presidency on 2 june. we fear that the european council may approve a compromise with very disappointing political and financial content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will do everything possible to prevent any institutional conflict. however, it must be clear that we cannot appeal to our sense of responsibility to involve the european parliament in an exercise which has the effect of mortifying the process of integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months two news stories have been published: the first concerned the elimination of italian from the commission's press conferences, followed by the publication of the euridice report funded by the european community which found that italian is among the least studied languages in the world. these two facts suggest, to a certain extent, that there is an intention to make the italian language fall behind its importance. i would like to discuss a few points, commissioner. we believe that it is not enough to consider only three languages as official languages of the union, also because there are six languages spoken by at least 9% of the european population. i would ask you, commissioner, to consider introducing at least six working languages, that is, languages spoken by at least 9 to 10% of the european population, namely: english, french, german, spanish, italian and polish.
i would like to thank mr moraes for the good work he has done in preparing this text, because in europe we really need to protect minorities and to take active steps against discrimination. i assume that in these very hours all our colleagues have been the object of real lobbying by citizens of the european union, who have even asked us to delete some paragraphs of the moraes report. we often say that we are defenders of minorities, but we show such hypocrisy when it comes to religious freedom or the recognition of freedom of movement and gay marriage. some topics are taboo: it is for example in the news today that even in catania, a civil city in italy, an italian citizen was denied a driving license because he is homosexual. i think that this also speaks volumes about the level of safeguards we must put in place against discrimination and that it is also useful to launch an initiative to ensure that genuine citizenship action is taken towards minorities and not just tolerance.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her diligent work on the report, which i consider to be incomplete and certainly not very effective. the protection of fundamental rights, which has been a cornerstone of the european construction, and the charter of fundamental rights, proclaimed in nice in 2000, underline the importance and the need for a coherent integration policy aimed at protecting minorities and promoting the integration of third-country nationals, especially in the light of the recent enlargement. we all agree that discrimination is a phenomenon to be fought, that all men should enjoy equal rights and that no one should feel discriminated against on racial, ethnic, religious or other grounds. however, i believe that the social inclusion of immigrants, the protection of minorities and cultural diversity - priority objectives of the european constitution - must not always be achieved at any cost. allow me to express my doubts towards those immigrant communities that show clear signs of intolerance - not to mention contempt - towards the host country, its traditions, its history, its culture; the european union has a duty to help those who are in need of assistance, and to help those who are in need of help. they're the first ones to refuse to fit in. the immigrants must certainly be regularised, and those who are able to do so must not be discriminated against, provided they clearly show their willingness to integrate and actively contribute to the economic and social development of the host country. by guaranteeing, however, at any cost, every kind of right systematically and unconditionally there is a risk that the only ones who will feel discriminated against will be european citizens, who fulfil all their fiscal and social obligations towards the state, in compliance with the rules. finally, as regards the paragraph on homophobia and homosexual couples, i must of course state my total opposition, considering 'family' as only the traditional one: a male father, a female mother, and the children as they come, male or female. unfortunately, my time is up, but i would like to go into these matters in greater detail in this house, as i think it is worthwhile.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gaubert, on his report, which i consider to be extremely balanced and well-articulated. i think this is an excellent contribution to a european immigration policy, which highlights the added value of europe on the one hand and the importance of close cooperation with third countries on the other. i shall now make a few comments on the qualifying points of this report. firstly, as regards the establishment of an early warning system, the commission strongly supports this idea and is drawing up a proposal. it intends to submit a proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a procedure for prior consultation between member states when adopting measures on asylum and immigration by the end of the summer. as regards the link between immigration and development policies, the commission intends to present, also before the end of the summer, a proposal for a communication to develop ideas and concrete proposals to link european migration policy with development cooperation, and in this context particularly sensitive issues, such as the so-called 'brain drain', which is also a highly sensitive matter for the countries of origin of highly skilled labour flows, will certainly be examined. the commission also shares the rapporteur's approach to measures to combat illegal immigration: we are against all forms of trafficking in human beings, of which illegal immigrants are only the victims. we are considering proposals for common rules for the dissemination of best practice in order to combat trafficking in human beings better, seeking to involve third countries more and to promote closer cooperation between third countries and european countries in the protection of maritime borders. the european policy on return also deserves great attention. the hague programme expressly states the need for common european standards in this field. the commission intends to present, probably by september, a proposal for a directive containing common, transparent rules - which we will of course examine together - on return policy, which will take full account of the need to respect the fundamental rights of every person. i do not think that there is any distinction to be made, when discussing fundamental rights, between a legal immigrant and an illegal immigrant: the fundamental right to respect for human dignity applies equally to legal immigrants and illegal immigrants. now, on to the important topic of legal immigration for economic reasons: we are collecting a lot of proposals on the green paper, which you all know, published by the commission last january. a public hearing will take place on 14 june and, based on the outcome of this wide consultation, we will prepare a proposal by the end of this year. this proposal - as i have already had the opportunity to reiterate in this parliament - will be the result of a great european debate. the issue of recruiting and facilitating the recruitment of seasonal and temporary workers is also of particular importance. the importance of economic immigration is widely recognised: i would like to say that, thanks to a genuine european policy on economic immigration, immigration can be an opportunity for europe and its labour market. in some sectors there is even a need for specialised professionals which cannot be met by the supply of european staff. economic immigration, as the rapporteur also acknowledges, is undoubtedly a highly sensitive issue for the member states. i am very pleased, however, to note that the european public debate on the green paper has somewhat alleviated the reluctance of the member states, which in some cases even refused in principle to deal with the issue of legal immigration at european level, and which have now understood that only such a policy can bring about real added value. i would like to conclude by mentioning the two most important issues of integration and the protection of immigrants. as regards the first, you all know that the proposal i made and which the commission accepted is to give special importance to integration. integration is, in my view, an essential component of european immigration policy. i intend to present a communication in the second half of 2005 on the definition of a coherent european framework for integration policies. i am well aware that integration is essentially a national matter, that is to say, it is up to the member states to take care of the actual integration policies. but i believe that europe must not give up on stimulating the member states and on intervening to help them in their integration policies. i believe that without integration, which requires education and programmes for access to social services, it is difficult to have a truly effective european migration policy. i would ask parliament to give its full support to this in order to overcome the difficulties which some member states still have in dealing with the question of integration also through european action and not only through national action. i say this because later this year we will be discussing the commission's proposal for a european fund to supplement, not replace, national integration policies. i have referred to the protection of immigrants because there are two aspects. the first is the need for reliable data and statistics on immigration. the commission intends to submit a proposal for a regulation defining the criteria for obtaining statistical data which we do not have today in many cases, which makes it very difficult to define a european policy. the protection of immigrants must be directed first and foremost to those who are the innocent victims of human trafficking, organised crime: i am referring specifically to women and children. with regard to these two categories of particularly vulnerable victims of trafficking in human beings - as i have said on other occasions and here too - the commission will put forward specific proposals for protection and guarantees, on the one hand, to put an end to trafficking in human beings and, on the other, to protect the victims. i would like to conclude, mr president, by confirming my personal satisfaction with mr gaubert's report, which shows how important parliament's contribution can be, since it has adopted a stronger and more incisive political approach to this issue than in the past. i believe that parliament can be of great help in this respect to the policies of the commission, which will of course take parliament's voice into account.
i would like to thank mr gaubert for his work in the committee on this report, which in my view raises three important points in order to deal with this subject. the first is to increase legal channels of immigration; the second element calls for us to address the causes of immigration and not respond with repression, criminalization and rejection. the third element indicates that the economic approach cannot be the only approach to immigration. i think that the gaubert report should contribute to the drafting of the green paper. i also believe that we should try to accept the proposals put forward by our group, particularly with regard to the residence permit for job seekers, the rejection of community priority - because there can be no difference in the search for work between citizens of the european union and citizens of third countries - and, finally, the right to take an active part in political life and elections. i would like to conclude by expressing a concern: the european parliament is doing interesting work on immigration, while the justice and home affairs council recently approved enhanced cooperation on the management of flows with libya, which has become our preferred partner on immigration, but which still offers no guarantees on the respect of human rights and the protection of the right to asylum.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be politically united with an economic and social project and to give a new impetus to development, europe must have institutions which dialogue with its citizens. the future is informed consent. the vote in france and the netherlands does not mean a 'no' to europe but the will to prevent it from continuing along the path of choices made in an overly vertical way or without taking account of changing realities and new economic and social situations. the employment crisis, caused by social dumping in some countries and the delay in europe's response to the problem, has created the insecurity and fear that led to the negative vote on the treaty. the vote was not so much on the treaty as on the misinformation, which the commission has also acknowledged in recent weeks. the treaty, when it was born, was the best compromise possible but it was not adequately adapted to the challenges already in place. what the peoples of europe are asking for is clear rules that can be applied, that respect the principle of subsidiarity and that are capable of providing solutions not only to contingent problems but also to those that can be foreseen by analysing the geopolitical and geoeconomic context. the situation requires a renewed sense of responsibility on the part of the three institutions, so that what is possible is done and that what needs to be deferred is not dealt with. after the return of bulgaria and romania to europe, we believe that enlargement must be stopped, so that the union can be strengthened by dialogue between the institutions and the citizens. at the same time, there is a need to take a new approach to relations with the european central bank, because the union will never have a future if the political bodies do not have the necessary influence in the definition of monetary policy. we call on the commission and the council to take a decision on this matter as soon as possible. the union has already experienced difficult times, from which it has emerged with new initiatives: the rejection by the french national assembly of the 1954 treaty establishing the european defence community gave rise to the messina conference and then to the treaties of rome. the genscher-colombo project was the way out of the stagnation of the european community in the 1970s, and the vote at the 1985 european council in milan, under the presidency of mr craxi, led to the single act. we are therefore confident that the new europe can be born at this very moment when it is clear that the forward flight of the euro-enthusiasts and the scepticism of the euro-sceptics do not guarantee the future of individuals or the future of the collectivity. eurorealism is the only way forward in the present and is based on democratic choices and respect for national identities to build a europe of solidarity and sharing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new socialist party. we must not hide behind a finger: the french 'no' is a strong, decisive 'no' to the process of european integration as it has been structured since maastricht. in 1992, when it signed the treaty introducing the single currency and beginning the process of political cohesion, europe knew that it was embarking on a path which was to lead to a complete transformation of both the institutional model and the overall configuration of the union, with the gradual abandonment of the geopolitical structure of the cold war. however, several of the mechanisms have not worked and many of the issues opened up by the maastricht treaty are still on the table. it is time to make clear choices about the shape of the european dimension: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration for a long time, and it is not just the european parliament that has been the driving force behind it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, what is happening is a lesson for the future. this method of ratification has proved to be a mistake and a referendum in one day would have been better. if we had had more courage then, we would not be in this situation today. the council meeting in june will now have to listen to the signals coming from the 'no' vote in the referendum and find a way out. it is becoming increasingly clear, however, that there are two possible solutions: the first - we have heard it here - is less europe: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of enlargement. the second is to launch a new challenge which proposes more europe - i would say, europe really. but if we want this second solution to prevail, as i want it to, we must be able to innovate and change and denounce that we are paying for the delays of these years: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is right, therefore, to go ahead, just as it is right to denounce the responsibility of national egoisms. but this shock must make us face up to the unresolved issues with determination, and then europe can really hope to face up again to the fears, uncertainties and anxieties that our citizens are experiencing today.
the united nations is younger than i am at 60 years old, but i really hope that it will live longer than i and we do and that it will be able to accompany development, democracy and justice for the peoples of the world. the devastation of the second world war, the horror and uniqueness of the nazi holocaust, the death of millions of people and soldiers, and the unpunished crime of the atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki have given birth to hope and commitment: the peoples of the united nations, convinced that they had a tool to put war out of history. it's been a long time. the un has lost its effectiveness and the most important countries have worked to undermine it. let us think of the preventive and humanitarian wars, which were in fact experiments with devastating weapons, almost of mass destruction. reform, indeed a re-founding of the united nations, is indispensable. the organization must once again be able to preserve peace through justice, promote disarmament, combat poverty and assert democracy. strengthening democracy also means ensuring transparency and participation, not only of national governments but also of peoples and civil society. the report by mr laschet is important, as is the ability of our parliament to work towards strengthening and coordinating the united nations. i agree with your proposals: strengthening the commitment to human rights, the protection of nature and the environment, the fight against poverty and the strengthening of the economic and social council (ecosoc). all of these commitments are essential, including for the achievement of the millennium development goals. mr laschet spoke of 'freedom from want' and the need to encourage kofi annan and of course to take up the boutros boutros ghali peace agenda of 1992 with a vigour. finally, i would like to stress a fundamental point, namely the total anachronism of the security council and its anti-democratic nature, symbolized by the right of veto. i believe it is important to work towards its abolition and for the european union to be represented with one voice alongside the other continents.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the offensive of the so-called g4 will begin in mid-june, with the intention of presenting a resolution to the general assembly which will raise the number of permanent members to eleven, leaving the other 180 un members to compete for non-permanent seats. the adoption of this proposal will increase the disparity between un member states and raise the issue of the extension of the right of veto, with the consequent risk of paralysing the security council. at european level, however, germany's accession to the council would mean the final abandonment of the project of a europe with a serious and effective foreign policy. italy, which has always been committed to the single seat of the european union, is now leading the ufc movement, which opposes the g4 proposal and wants a regional restructuring of the council. only by such reform would the european union achieve its proper role at international level. we must abandon national selfishness if we are to give the european union a credible political future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the absolute need for reform of the united nations and in particular of the security council. however, to be effective, a reform must be shared by as many countries as possible, must have a broad consensus, must reflect the growing weight of regionalism in international relations and must not be rushed. we condemn initiatives to reform the security council, such as the so-called g4 reform, as mrs angelilli has mentioned, which would end up weakening the main organ of the united nations and freezing it in its present difficulties. we believe that all countries should have the right to serve on the security council, through periodic elections which guarantee the representation of the various regional realities. in this spirit, we have asked for a separate vote on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21, in order to remove certain ambiguities in the excellent laschet report. there is a lot of talk, even in this chamber, about a european seat. but for that to exist, a common european foreign policy is needed, and i think we are still a long way from that goal. and there is no doubt that the double "no" to the constitution these days has made the path even more difficult. one day we will reach this european seat, but we exclude for the moment a permanent delegation to one state to represent the union, which would lead to discrimination against other states, even if italy would have all the numbers to be able to stand. the united nations is currently plagued by embarrassing revelations and scandals that tarnish its image. so when we talk about reform, we must not think only of the security council but, as this report rightly does, of the united nations as a whole. powerless and blocked for many years by superpower rivalry, the united nations must find new energy and new life.
member of the commission. mr president, as i have said before, we share many of the views of this parliament on the reform of the united nations. we all agree that a strong and effective united nations is for the benefit not only of the european union but also of the international community as a whole. we can support many of the proposals in the secretary-general’s report. as i have stated, our priorities are to secure greater success in the achievement of the millennium goals. we are equally committed to seeing progress in the field of post-conflict situations and, therefore, we support the proposal for a peace-building commission as an instrument that will fill an existing gap between post-conflict situations and long-term sustainable peace. our commitment to human rights is unwavering and the proposals on the table for a human rights council will get our full support. equally, we will support the creation of a un environmental organisation, which will further consolidate the central focus of our actions in the field of the environment. on climate change, we believe that the summit should call for more collaborative efforts to achieve the objectives of a un climate change convention. the summit should endorse the un secretary-general’s proposals to ensure concerted global action to mitigate climate change and develop a more inclusive international framework for climate change beyond 2012. the commission wholly endorses the contents of the un secretary-general’s report on the proposal for a comprehensive convention on terrorism and calls for member states to agree a definition of terrorism. the un secretary-general rightly underlines in his report that the accumulation and proliferation of small arms and light weapons continue to threaten the international security, human safety, as well as socio-economic stability. the summit should echo the un secretary-general’s appeal for consensus on the legally binding convention on the marking and tracing of small arms and to expedite negotiations on an instrument on illicit brokering and the supply of arms. the commission further hopes that the summit will lead to the start of negotiations on an international arms trade treaty. with regard to the proposal to set up a democracy fund, this could provide added value. it would make a real difference if it were used to jointly identify key priorities, general programming and to provide political guidance for those eligible countries seeking to strengthen democratic practice. work now needs to be undertaken to facilitate the emergence of a consensus on the modalities of this fund. the commission underlines the need to restore the political stature of the general assembly, asserting its role as the main universal deliberative body. the commission is also particularly interested in the ecosoc reform. we support a radical reform to render the body more operational and would like to see its role in all the pillars of sustainable development reinforced. some members raised the issue of security council reform. this is clearly an important and central issue. however, it should not be an issue that hampers our ability to take actions in a range of other areas that i have highlighted. i have again noted your repeated appeal for an eu seat on the security council. in conclusion, let me state that reform of the united nations is not an exercise in institutional change for its own sake. our aim is to enhance the ability of this global organisation to meet the challenges of the 21st century in the interests of meeting the aspirations of the peoples of the united nations. seeking to consolidate the areas of agreement that exist between parliament, the council and the commission further enhances our chances of achieving sound results in the reform of this important body.
president of the council. mr president, thank you to the commission for quickly filling in for me during this short absence. i believe that the council is taking note of the suggestions, ideas and proposals which parliament has just developed in this debate and in this draft report. the presidency will of course pass on to the future presidency the main elements of this debate, since the european union must now clearly define its position in view of the september summit. i believe, as many of you have said, that the united nations is an essential element of a globalized world. to be able to solve the problems of today's world, we need a strong and effective multilateral system. that is why this reform must not be reduced to a few national elements or interests. the european union is in the best position, or should be in the best position, to show that multilateralism is the answer to problems which can no longer be solved on a national basis. i also want to return to the proposal for a fund for democracy. the un human rights system needs a fundamental reform. too often - and we have had the opportunity to discuss this on several occasions - there are almost absurd developments at the level of the commission on human rights. that is why reform is absolutely necessary to restore greater credibility to the defence of human rights within the un system. and i believe that in this area too the european union can be at the forefront of reform, encourage it and come up with positive solutions and conclusions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on transatlantic relations.
i would like to say that the council's report, the commission's report and the motion tabled by the majority of the political groups all seem to be aimed at seeking convergence with the united states at all costs, even if it means abandoning principles which have always been the basis of the european union. i am referring, for example, to respect for human rights: the guantanamo affair is not an isolated case, as is shown, for example, by the abu ghraib situation, which nobody has spoken about, and the abductions of free citizens by american intelligence services, documented by the mainstream european press, on the territory of the european union. we do not see it and we do not say anything about it. there is also no reference to condemnation of preventive war, which is absolutely contrary to international law. moreover, the building of transatlantic relations is achieved by a continuous call for all forms of liberalism and even - i have heard the commission representative speak - with the proposal to place services on the transatlantic relations market, which so far - fortunately - are excluded from the world trade organisation agreements and are still considered as services to access rights and not as goods to build profits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i have welcomed the statements of the council and the commission, i must say at once that i found in the joint resolution to be voted on tomorrow an unacceptable paragraph which recognises the role played by uzbekistan in the fight against international terrorism. i find it very disturbing the very idea that the west and europe consider islam karimov as an ally, because one cannot be considered an ally who applies terrorism against his own people. i think that parliament and the commission should insist firmly on an international commission of inquiry to clarify who is responsible for the massacre. i believe that we should also call for the dispatch of official international observers to the ground, in order to prevent or at least to hinder the continuation of acts of repression, the arrests of opponents, the attack on journalists, the state terrorist violence against the civilian population. europe must be able to distinguish itself clearly in the eyes of the uzbeks, both in relation to the state-mindedness of the russian and chinese governments and in relation to the complete cynicism of washington, which continues to give millions of dollars to karimov in exchange for military bases.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to one of the subjects discussed: the issue of aids and hiv. on 2 december 2004 this parliament voted a very specific resolution and called for the intervention of the commission and the council, in particular seeking to amend the current trips regulations which are one of the fundamental reasons for preventing access to medicines in the global south for adults and children. i do not see that anything has been done in this specific area, namely the amendment of the trips, and i would like to ask why, also because the situation has recently become even more dramatic with the indian government's adjustment to the trips regulations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing is particularly important at a time like the present, when much of europe is in economic and social difficulties. these difficulties are undermining the european union's competitive capacity and highlight a productivity gap with the usa and japan, low levels of investment and r & d, low levels of innovation, particularly for high technology, and offshoring of research activities. you have to deal with all of this. we have said many times that this must be done by relaunching the lisbon strategy, but that strategy will continue to languish if we do not invest seriously and vigorously in industrial policy. i have to say, commissioner, that the framework programme on innovation and competitiveness is still below expectations. it is a summary of what already exists, while we need something new and significant. we heard tonight that you 're going to present a new communication: we hope it contains the news we're demanding. the choice must be made in the field of general economic policy, the completion of the internal market and the policies of reform of public administration, the tax system and infrastructure. in addition, however, work is needed on a governance framework to enable all existing institutional levels to interact in a cooperative manner. it is necessary to be aware of the need to invest in sectoral and horizontal policies to promote small and mediumsized enterprises, which are a major part of the european union. finally, we must build and extend the so-called virtuous circuits: universities, industrial districts, research labs. i am referring to the 'incubators' of innovation which are crucial for industrial policy. in short, we must change our speed - and as soon as possible - if we want the european union to become the more competitive and dynamic area we have long been calling for.
the report by mr fraga, which is excellent in its summary and content, defines the specific features of the mediterranean better than the council's proposal. this specificity implies that while the objectives of community fisheries management must be homogeneous throughout the eu, the instruments to achieve them must be adapted to the specific characteristics of fisheries in the mediterranean. this is to take account of the different biological, geographical and legal situations in the region and to draw on the experience and expertise of fishermen's organisations operating in the mediterranean. a peculiar feature is coastal and artisanal fishing. the majority of the italian fleet's vessels are less than 12 metres long and therefore the difficulties they will encounter in the conversion - so much desired by the community - to other types of fishing cannot be ignored. the coastal and artisanal fisheries must not only be defined but also safeguarded and, in the case of conversion, more compensation and incentives should be devoted to them, so as not to create serious socioeconomic problems for the whole sector. the project also specifies the role of the regional advisory council, a body specifically created to promote the direct involvement of fishermen, as a voice for direct experience in the decision-making process, so that community legislation is increasingly in line with the reality and problems of the fisheries sector. the role of the mediterranean regulation in introducing common rules is greatly appreciated, but that is precisely why it is necessary for all non-european countries bordering the mediterranean to adapt their legislation to the policy of protecting stocks. to this end, it is necessary to strengthen the position of the european community within the major organizations regulating fisheries, in order to spread the european fishing tradition in the main international forums such as the gfcm and ligat. finally, mr president, i would also like to stress the key role of research, since the basis of any good policy is the quality and competence of knowledge of the factors involved. in this perspective, the specific nature of the mediterranean has always been a problem: the problem is not so much the quantity of research but the discrepancy between research and the specific knowledge needs for effective management policy. that is why in future we must insist on the coordination and applicability of scientific research to the action plan.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must first of all thank mrs fraga for the excellent work she has done, but also the commission for the sensitivity it has shown in taking account of what happened in the last parliament when parliament considered that the commission's proposal could not be amended. the compromise was reached on the basis of mutual respect and humility. it was possible to reopen a comparison with the trade associations. we have succeeded in preventing the mediterranean from being a marginal sea: a sum of obligations and prohibitions, subject only to a sanctioning policy. however, while we appreciate that the regulation in question represents a step forward and a useful mediation, we believe that it still retains, albeit to a lesser extent, an approach that is still linked to a fisheries model specific to the north sea. the north sea is characterised by a highly industrialised and monospecific fishery and must take account of a marine biology which is completely different from that of the mediterranean. that is the reason for the long debate in committee and with you, commissioner, on different minimum sizes, which we would have liked to have defined more clearly: sardines and cod caught in the north sea do not have the same biological growth as the mediterranean fisheries. similarly, it is difficult to set too specific limits on fishing gear, since a craft activity, made up of small shipyards, varies from country to country, also depending on the quality and diversity of traditions. in applying this regulation, we would like to see it aimed at an objective which is rarely achieved: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the baltic sea. this naturally involves attention to the management and conservation of fishery resources, pollution prevention work but also the safeguarding of jobs. i would remind you, commissioner, that 80% of the fisheries in the mediterranean are artisanal and are carried out in regions which for the most part fall within the former objective 1 area: areas with high social disadvantages, high unemployment rates and in many cases no social buffers. i believe that a particular sensitivity to the preservation of employment levels is a common mission of the commission and parliament. we ask the council to accept this proposal and to give due consideration to the quantity and quality of the work that has made it possible.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a long and laborious process which began a little less than two years ago, we have reached a compromise which satisfies our group only partially. for example, we are pleased to see the possibility of financial support for organic farming re-emerging, even though the new european fisheries fund does not provide for this. however, important issues remain, which in our view are contrary to the interests of fisheries in the mediterranean. let me give you another example. we believe that, given the importance of the whiting sector, this species can be marketed provided it is caught with regulated gear. that is why we have tabled amendment no 27, which we hope will be accepted. how many times have we stressed the peculiarity of mediterranean fishing: the fisheries sector is essentially coastal and artisanal, a type of fishing which is a culture and which, in addition to passing down a centuries-old tradition from generation to generation, is a vital source of income for the economy, especially in an area - let us not forget this - of severe socioeconomic decline. we therefore believe that points 3 and 4 of annex 2, which are intended to regulate and standardize the technical characteristics of handcrafted gear which, precisely because they are linked to a certain type of fishing and to certain coastal areas, cannot by their very nature be subject to regulatory imposition, should be deleted. we congratulate the rapporteur, mrs fraga, and express the legitimate hope that this regulation will be a significant step towards a mediterranean which is concerned not only with the preservation of fish fauna but also with the livelihood and employment of thousands of european fishermen, who have hitherto been required to observe only prohibitions and limits, while for non-community fleets the mediterranean has been a kind of free zone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fishing is absolutely essential to the survival of mankind. over a billion people rely on animal protein or derivatives. as for the potential of the catch, according to the experts, we are reaching the limit and it is therefore right that the european parliament and the commission should try to limit the run and manage the catch in a sustainable way and eradicate destructive forms of fishing with severity. fisheries and aquaculture, however, are one of the union's main activities. the european fish market is the third largest in the world after china and peru. in france, greece, italy and spain, the fishing industry employs about 100 000 fishermen and tens of thousands of vessels. the european fleet, which is also a small-scale fleet, is largely made up of vessels of less than 10 tonnes. the largely artisanal nature of our fleet and our operators is therefore evident. the citizens therefore expect the european parliament and the commission to find a balanced position, one which can reconcile economic and ecological needs. similarly, the protection of fish stocks must be based even more closely on scientific information than is the case today, but it is also necessary to actively involve fishermen in the management of fishery resources and to mediate with the environmental world to raise awareness and call attention to employment problems. we therefore call for the gradual implementation of the new regulations. the fraga report as a whole puts ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by mr csaba őry, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social inclusion in the new member states (2004/2210 (ini)) (a6-0125/2005).
the debate is closed for the vote. the debate will resume this afternoon. the written declaration (article 142)
the competent italian authorities have submitted a request for the waiver of mr marco pannella's parliamentary immunity in criminal proceedings before the court of justice in rome. in accordance with article 6 (2) of the regulation, the request has already been referred to the committee responsible for the subject. although there is no discussion of this communication, i think it is appropriate to give the floor to mr marco pannella, even if only for a very short time.
mr president, i was asking for the floor on a point of order, pursuant to rule 6 (2), to which you referred. i would like to inform you and the house that this request for waiver, which you are sending us, must take account of the fact that parliament already rejected the request for waiver of immunity by a near unanimous vote on 10 february 2004, so that is now a year and a half ago. we have ascertained that the decision was duly forwarded to the competent italian authorities on 23 february 2004 by both the parliament and the italian representation and published in the official journal on 22 april 2004. so this new demand - which will waste our time again - shows that, in addition to the spaghetti with clams, we are also exporting "justice to the clams" everywhere, which is not always pleasant.
thank you, mr pannella, the committee responsible will certainly have a chance to comment on the substance of the matter.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the votes: see minutes)
your honor, i beg your pardon. i am certainly sympathetic to the substance of the matter, but the procedure does not allow me to put an amendment back to the vote which has already been voted on and which has been rejected.
i confirm, mr president, that i am always ready to check, of course, since there is no certainty of infallibility: the groups wanted to vote, the members did not raise their hands, the vote was taken and i unfortunately had to take note of the result of the vote. i have not been asked to verify anything and i am not in a position to set a negative precedent on voting procedures. i am the first to regret it, but i must continue the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last night i fell asleep thinking about how to vote on the bowis report on the mobility of the sick in europe and i dreamt of the beautiful blonde italian woman, elena, who was complimenting me at dinner. he said: "good job, carlo, your proposal to make it easier for all pensioners to travel to europe has been accepted. of course, all the hospitals in europe will have to be visited, but you cannot have everything in this world; you have to be satisfied and therefore vote in favour of this report.' could i refuse to take the advice of the beautiful, blonde elena? no, that's why i voted yes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr laschet, in azerbaijan the opposition of three right-wing parties, three sovereignist parties, to the inauguration of the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline has been suppressed. the mass arrests have effectively decapitated the political opposition and local human rights groups who are contesting a blatantly rigged election. it's the usual story of the american sheriff's control of global oil. where american soldiers don't come, like in iraq, their political mercenaries come: this is the case in colombia, azerbaijan, georgia, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and madagascar. this is an operation that began soon after the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the soviet union. to safeguard its interests, the united states is providing millions of dollars in weapons and sending military advisers throughout the caucasus. the european union condemns the us policy of exploitation by condemning the azerbaijani regime. to protect human rights and democracy, we must counter american politics and interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union could be made to function by an effective presidency of the council and a president-in-office with a certain european faith, a certain charisma and a certain credibility, we would be on our way. president juncker, i would also say that if you really wanted to continue your work, you could perhaps have chosen the presidency of another institution that is a little more stable and perhaps you could have participated more directly in a european debate which we consider to be very important. luxembourg and its prime minister have led the union well in these turbulent months, but this has not served to restore the confidence of the french and dutch electorate, nor to revive the european economic machine, nor to put into practice positive initiatives, those that make people dream. the european council has done nothing but confirm the reality of a europe of governments divided, perhaps not too interested in real ambition in the face of a europe of peoples uncertain and afraid. we regret, mr president juncker, that the last act of your presidency was a budget proposal which was truly unacceptable, because it was put into the same losing logic as an unsustainable reduction of the union's budget. i have great respect for your pragmatism, for your realism and for your understanding of the difficulty and the complicated calculations you have shown us here. but it is also true that his proposal also involved cuts in positive policies - development policy, rural development policy, even the sacred lisbon policy - which are not acceptable for europe today. we therefore really hope that, once you have left the presidency, your government will throw such a proposal into the wind, also because we think that it might help you in your referendum. today it seems that those who want europe to be just a big supermarket have a certain advantage over those who want a political europe. for now, they are the only ones who have been strengthened by the two 'no's' and i believe we will have further confirmation of this tomorrow when tony blair comes to us, smiling and skating, to tell us how to make europe even more intergovernmental and weaker. the only plan in sight right now is definitely the blair plan. my group therefore welcomes the fact that a bad agreement on the financial perspective has not been reached and considers it important that the council has given itself a period of reflection on the constitution, without stopping the ratification process for those who want to continue it. i can tell you today, mr president, that many of the european greens will support you in the referendum in luxembourg. we believe, however, that time, method and clear objectives must be given to reflection and that difficult chapters on the financial perspective which seemed to have been closed must be reopened. it is on these two issues that the conflict between the "supermarket" and the unionists will be consummated. so it is worthwhile, mr juncker, to start sharpening the weapons, because it is not worthwhile to lose ourselves in obtuse compromises, even if they have brought together 20 ministers. if we really believe that political union is still on the horizon, if we are really ashamed to have to suffer the initiative of the ten new countries on the budget, then we must act immediately and unambiguously. but they agree on the millimeters! we must reject the letter of the six, and finally enter into the order of ideas that it is on political priorities that the discussion of the size of the budget must be based, and not vice versa, and reopen the discussion on everything: the commission has already made a number of proposals. secondly, mr president, we must also do 'something european', as a famous italian film director used to say, something which is far more than the bolkenstein directive, software patenting, the arbitrary and closed-door authorisation of new gmos, or a little bit of air-frying on sustainable development, while in reality - alas - environmental policy is becoming increasingly marginal in your commission. the debate on the future of europe and its legitimacy will be greatly facilitated if europe has something to offer in the coming months: reach, action on climate change, the concrete redefinition of social europe, the working time directive, serious respect for the commitments of the millennium round. all of this is perfectly feasible and will help us to bring the constitution back into vogue. i conclude, mr president: we have very serious doubts that the debate on the constitution can be carried on and led by the big brigade at the summit, and the european parliament must take some responsibility for this. president borrell, it is to you that i turn in these very last seconds: i would like parliament not to be just a talk show but to be the promoter of action itself, to put parliament at the centre of a debate on european initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, few politicians are able to present european integration, including sacrifices, as a positive political objective, to base their consensus on hopes rather than fears, and to make it clear that the new global concerns can only be resolved at european level. i would like to thank president juncker for the sincere effort and european passion he has shown. the applause of this house has shown that, amid the screams of the eurosceptics and the silence of too many europeans, we have found in you the political intelligence and the vision of the best europeans. we would also like the other heads of the community institutions to show the same courage and leadership in the future. but let us remember that a defeat is only a defeat when it is accepted, and we must not accept it. we are facing a difficult crisis, the most difficult in many years: first the referendums, and today the no deal. a pandora's box has opened up, exposing different views of europe. i would remind all those who are discussing the cost of europe that if we do not solve the crisis soon, as the cecchin report said almost 20 years ago, we will be talking about the cost of non-europe. and the costs of non-europe are higher than the costs of europe. the contradiction between the tasks we would like to give europe in the world order, in the economy, in research and in the budget negotiations, as president juncker has told us, is also unsustainable. there will be no more development or social model if the eurogroup does not tackle the issue of the common economic policy alongside that of monetary policy. there will be no more europe in the world chaos if this parliament and the countries which are ready do not open a debate on enhanced cooperation in the field of common foreign and security policy. this crisis will not be short. the electoral calendar in germany, france and even italy, to stop here, does not help us. but the pause for reflection, ladies and gentlemen, cannot and must not become a mexican siesta. i would like to say to the president of parliament and to all of us: the referenda and the crisis affect us, they affect us, but in the constitutional triangle they have never called into question the work of this parliament. in difficult times our parliament has been able to throw ideas and to gather the european spirit. we must be the ones to speak to the people after years of discussing a europe for the people. i would like to conclude by saying that this parliament, which is always orderly, always regulated, always scheduled, must also show that it is not going along with the business as usual motto, that we have understood the discomfort of the citizens as well as the bad responses of many governments. let us remember that the commission will be the guardian of the treaties, but we are the representatives of the people of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has decided, behind the curtain of the frisian horses, in a chatter that is inconclusive: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. these days mark the second centenary of giuseppe mazzini, a champion of the europe of peoples and founder of the young europe. what emerges from the discussions of the european council is more reminiscent of the congress of vienna than of the solidarity vision of that great patriot. the voice of the people must be heard, not the interests of high finance. the peoples who suffer, together with the real economy, from the breakdown and failure of the euro. so why not a referendum on the euro? however, in your conclusions after hearing the results of the referendums, you write that recent developments do not call into question the validity of continuing the ratification process. it doesn't change anything. the false assumptions of this construction of europe, such as the claim that the nations which are the content, the flesh of this europe, will disappear, are not taken into account. fortunately they didn 't disappear . there is still some national sovereignty. but much has been expropriated: the european parliament has been deprived of its monetary sovereignty, and that is why we want to give back to the people the decision on the euro, because the people very often say: that's enough of the euro. it is the states, the nations, that are the depositaries of the democratic will of the citizens, not your techno-bureaucracy that answers to no one. these discussions, this flimsy europe, are the result of your method of enlargement. today even prodi is distancing himself from enlargement, from the decision on turkey. but it's a little late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the italian socialists of the new socialist party. as we had the opportunity to stress before the council, europe needs clear and irreversible decisions on its strategy for the coming years. the basic choice is between the baltic, the mediterranean or a balanced combination of the two. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the union's external relations are not distorted by the threat of a crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also believe that action is essential to promote the creation of a common european spirit, which can only be achieved through gradual and progressive harmonization of policies and through a mobilizing debate involving citizens, civil society and the social partners. a new challenge, a great undertaking, an ambitious path, started correctly by the luxembourg presidency, which will be continued by president blair.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr schmit, the luxembourg presidency will be remembered for coinciding with external events which, while forcing the european project to undergo a real and literal crisis, will enable the european union to redefine its mission and to provide it with intelligence, institutions, organization and resources. this does not diminish our sense of gratitude to him. the solution of the global problems of the past, the time when the world and europe coincided for us, makes it possible to declare that phase of european history positively completed, as having been achieved successfully. the turbulent globalisation of all problems today requires us to enter a new phase, which is equally challenging and, why not, equally exciting. the achievement of intra-european peace and stability, the prosperity guaranteed by the construction of the intra-european market for subsequent enlargements, the intra-european valorization of the many cultures, all of which can be traced back to the common judeo-greek-christian roots, make the original project of the founding fathers substantially complete, even if the full, necessary involvement of south-eastern europe is still lacking. today, the same problems - peace, prosperity, identity - are only solved on a planetary scale, with global partners demanding a european partner that is up to the task, more cohesive, more integrated, more directly accountable to the european citizens, without the useless, if not harmful, mediation of the national states, and therefore capable of ensuring the objectives that the european people no longer see as achievable with today's union. the luxembourg presidency has done its best to mitigate external shocks, despite the depressed economic situation in a large number of important member states and the difficult working conditions, and despite a council of 25 acting in accordance with the rules of the treaty of nice and an executive commission not yet fully capable of giving a community spirit to the work of the union. the defence of the substantial integrity of the stability and growth pact, the drive to ratify the constitutional treaty, the generous and obstinate pursuit of the budget agreement, the impetus given by the lisbon strategy are facts which remain, thanks to the luxembourg presidency. but above all, the luxembourg presidency has taught us that the union, pending more appropriate constitutional mechanisms, such as those provided for in the constitutional treaty, must use all its political resources to keep the process in balance, while giving itself time to refocus from the foundations the objectives and methods of its work. without giving in to panic, without preventing ourselves from continuing to use the existing treaties to defend and increase the european heritage of common decisions, perhaps starting with only apparently modest achievements, such as the european driving licence, which i hope will be dismissed in the coming days thanks to our codecision procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this semester has been particularly full of important challenges for the future of the european union: the reform of the stability pact, the relaunch of the lisbon agenda, the ratification of the constitution and the financial perspective. the luxembourg presidency, in its appreciated attempt to tackle all of them, has confirmed its political resolve and its firm commitment to the community project, but then suffered an unpleasant setback at the european council on thursday and friday, which certainly does not help europe to establish an effective relationship with the citizens, a relationship which is really based on the element of trust. i must add, however, mr minister, that i have also not appreciated the position of the presidency on the resources for cohesion policy in the next programming period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has given an important positive signal by adopting the böge resolution by a large majority and by being in full agreement with the european commission's position. is it possible that all of this is irrelevant? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the opinion of the four hundred and twenty-six democratically elected members of parliament - we voted a lot - but we should be concerned about the opinion of the commission. i personally hope - and i have concluded - that after the bad experience of last week a balanced agreement will be reached, respecting the guidelines which have been circulated, and that this will happen as soon as possible, without waiting for the longest time still available.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the statute of members we are talking about must above all lay down the prerogatives of members. it must say who the european member of parliament is, what his rights and duties are, what his immunities are, and transform him from a national delegate into a representative of the european peoples as a whole. in essence, the statute is a fundamental pillar of the european integration process, and it is not adopted to regulate allowances or reimbursement of expenses, but to regulate and enhance the role and function of the member in the european community. uniform economic treatment alone would risk being a discriminatory measure, because it treats different situations equally. those who have given priority to this part of the statute - which i call minor and which serves only demagogically to provoke the emotions of the mass media - have erred and have not understood the profound significance that a new regulation at european level can have. i think it is important that parliament is about to take this decision at a time of crisis, mr president of the union, because it is useful and essential for the credibility of the union to work towards giving parliament a more european role. that is why the statute is opposed by the council and the member states, who do not want the european parliament to be strengthened. we came very close to approval in the last parliament when my colleague mr rothley, a great jurist, and i made a major contribution. parliament did its part in june and december, listening to the council's suggestions, but then the council, having received them, rejected them and did not approve them. i would like to mention mr lehne, who has made a very intelligent and cooperative contribution to this text under discussion. in december 2003 he said in a stony way: 'almost five years after the negotiations, it is no longer acceptable for the council to treat parliament as if it were a bear with a ring on its nose to be made to dance in a circus arena.' i repeat today those words which lehne said then. the european parliament must have its own independent legal reference, which is no longer derived from the member state of origin but from its being a representative of the community. the council has committed itself in an official statement to launching a procedure to give us common rules on parliamentary immunity. it is a strong political commitment which i appreciate and which we want to see confirmed today in the chamber by the luxembourg presidency. the text we have approved in the legal affairs committee takes account of the council's further suggestions and is an important point of balance, mr president, on which we must meet. once again we members of parliament have been willing to pay a price in order to have the status, and let me say that this also applies to italian members of parliament, who are considered to be hostile to pay, and who have made a contribution, because they receive a drastic reduction in their allowances. although we have accepted all the council's requests, the luxembourg presidency has still expressed doubts and is opposed to a recital 12 which i proposed and which the committee approved, a recital which allows member states to provide for additional measures to make european parliamentarians equal to national parliamentarians. the twelfth recital is speculative in relation to the eleventh recital, which allows member states to apply national taxation instead. if some are allowed to nationalise the system, effectively reducing our pay, why can't others supplement it or give us the facilities they give to national parliamentarians? why is it so difficult to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the statute provides the legal basis - and this is important - for allowing member states to enjoy the same benefits as members of parliament in their own country? the luxembourg presidency - let me say this - reacted hastily, in a personal letter and without consulting the council, to this amendment, saying that it did not agree with it. he has sent a letter which, in my view and, i believe, in the view of the majority of members, is institutionally unacceptable. this is an unwarranted interference, which i have denounced to you, mr president, in order to defend our independence and our sovereignty. the luxembourg presidency must be reminded to respect the role and prerogatives of parliament. if the presidency had not wasted time censuring parliament or finding clever and cunning obstacles, and had made a greater effort to prevent the failure of the council, it might have done the right thing. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. parliament is aware of the crisis in europe, which we have been discussing all afternoon, and of the need for a change of approach. europe must move beyond the stage where the burden of bureaucracy has outweighed the dynamics of the problems. europe is a political problem, not a stereotype, for which clear guidelines are needed, not a compromise at any cost. i hope that britain will take a new course, just as parliament must take a new course. i am convinced that the council will not reject the statute for this amendment, the content of which provides for a possibility which the council itself has formally declared that it can accept. that is the legal basis. what if there were no such measures? in my view, mr president, they could be declared unlawful by the court of justice. the exchange of letters between the president of parliament and the presidency of the council has a strong political value, but not for the court of justice: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to conclude with a plea, mr president: we approve the statute as proposed by the legal affairs committee. there has been a great deal of collaboration between all the colleagues, and it is a balanced text, which will come into force in 2009 and which leaves appropriate transitional periods for adaptation to the new regime. it is a real first step towards the single statute for the european parliament.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the luxembourg presidency and you for having reached this result today. when the debate on the statute for members of the european parliament began, it was very noble: it was a way of emphasizing the existence of a supranational parliament directly elected by the people of europe. then it all went wrong: the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has been a party to the treaty of rome. even if we vote against paragraph 12, i would ask the presidency to consider that it is certainly not this paragraph which makes the statute less european. it was all those who spoke, particularly on the tax system, who emptied it of its truly european content. that said, my group will be divided equally tomorrow between those who abstain and those who vote in favour, because there are certain elements of this statute on which we have very serious problems, and in particular the pension issue. we believe that we are citizens like everyone else and that it is therefore absolutely justified that when you are entitled to a pension contribution, you should contribute and participate in some way in the financing of this fund. that is why some of our members will abstain on this matter and will vote for our amendment anyway. on the other hand, i would like to stress that we are very much in favour of this statute. we too fully understand that we are in a situation of 'now or never'. the last point i would like to make is that in recent years not only the luxembourg government but the council as a whole has made the situation more complicated and more difficult, also because it has introduced a new concept of assent, so to speak, extended, whereby we are not limited to saying yes or no. we hope that in future we in the european parliament will also be able to benefit from this extended assent.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not be making the speech i had prepared and i apologise for that, but the speech by mr schmit makes me change the scope of my speech on the spot. i find the expression absolutely indecent: "same work, same pay". i'm saying this as a lawyer, as a legal expert: it is not conceivable that a member of parliament should be able to take the form of a worker who is paid a salary. the member of parliament has a salary and therefore a dignity, and if we want to give it back to parliament, we must first of all respect its rules, which are also rules of conduct, as well as written rules which are sometimes not respected. the european law must guarantee equality between them. i ask mr schmit whether it is a principle of equality that a five-star hotel in a newly arrived country is paid a fee of 40 euros, as happened to us two weeks ago in poland, in krakow, while a fee of 500 or 700 euros is paid for a hotel of the same category in rome, paris or another european capital. if you eat for ten euros in a restaurant in an eastern country, in italy, germany or france you need seventy, eighty or a hundred euros in a restaurant of the same standard. we are here today playing a part, in the full knowledge that we are hypocrites at best. from a legal point of view, i think that is unacceptable, also because the interpretation we are going to give - and i am only referring to articles 9 and 10, mr president - is that members are entitled to adequate remuneration, sufficient to guarantee their independence. but what is the adequacy and independence of the member? independence from what, if not from the dignity of the member, is considered in article 10 to be the thirty-eight-five per cent of the basic salary of a judge of the court of justice? i ask that this not be mentioned; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the dignity of the parliamentarian derives from his direct election by the people. being elected in an italian electoral college of fifteen million voters, like mine, is not the same as being a deputy on a blocked list, made by parties in another country where one does not have a single expense ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in one minute you can only send telegrams. the first telegram is certainly a letter of thanks to the presidency of the council for having helped to bring this debate back on the agenda. i am even more convinced of the need to thank this parliament. you will allow me to do so because it will achieve an objective which i consider to be of great political value, namely, to indicate the way forward towards a process of political integration of europe, thus enhancing the unified role of the parliamentary function. this parliament has also accepted some compromise assessments which i would prefer not to be ignored. it is a matter of the principle of non-discrimination, which is sacrosanct. that is one of the reasons why i am convinced that i shall vote in favour of these hypotheses: the principle of non-discrimination cannot, however, be applied to assessments of the relationship with national parliamentarians. the fact that the european parliament has a different salary and allowance status from that of a member of parliament, and that this is the only way to avoid the european parliament being considered hierarchically in a function subordinate to that of a national parliamentarian, has sometimes been presented as a privilege, i do not think that this was appropriate. the same goes for other points. i shall conclude, however, by saying just one thing, mr president - if i may - in a moment. we are finally reaching a goal that will do justice to so many false debates and provocations about transparency. we'll see about that. we shall see how this affects the parliament's budget when we finally introduce a system of 'reimbursement of real expenditure'.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a quick note. i am pleased that the debate has practically exalted our work - which i am glad of - and i think it has given the right emphasis to an important day in parliament, if we are to reach a conclusion. i would like to thank the presidency of parliament for its cooperation and minister schmit for his commitment to the first part of the statute, which, with a different timetable and procedure, must be approved by the council, and for his willingness to find a compromise point in the last hours, between tonight and tomorrow, on recital 12, which i continue to consider, mr president, to be important for the legal basis of the statute.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on development, i should like to begin by congratulating mr cashman on his excellent work and his excellent proposal. his report integrates and includes much of the remarks i made in my report on behalf of the committee on development on this important subject. i would also like to stress the political significance of the fact that, for the first time, members of the european parliament can use the codecision procedure in this area, which i consider to be a very positive development. among the many opportunities that would be lost if the process of ratifying the european constitution, after the rejection of france and the netherlands, were to come to a halt, would be the opportunity to launch for the first time a common immigration policy for all the member states. in this respect, the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to balance the interests of european citizens, immigrants, member states and developing countries. the equation is not simple, but an effort is needed to strike a balance between the need for security for our countries, which must be defended and guaranteed, and a policy of openness towards those who, in the name of legality, move within our borders in search of better living conditions. we must remember that as the european union we also have humanitarian obligations. it is therefore right to introduce the necessary checks at border crossings to regulate the influx of visa and asylum seekers, but we cannot however dispense with an overall approach based on solidarity and respect for human rights, especially in cases of humanitarian emergency, such as the recent tsunami or darfur situations. third-country nationals must be given detailed information on immigration rules and control procedures; the criteria for refusing access must be objective and verifiable, in order to avoid the unpleasant and unfortunately frequent incidents of discrimination which still occur today. strict controls on clear legislation and respect for individual rights: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it will not be easy, but it is a challenge which today's europe must take up and win.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing is intended to establish a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by citizens. it is part of the treaty of amsterdam, which has incorporated the schengen acquis into the european framework. it is the first real opportunity for this parliament to deal fully with this subject, bearing in mind that the proposal has moved from the consultation procedure to the codecision procedure following the decision of the hague council. this complex and voluminous proposal has two main objectives: first, to consolidate the existing rules on the crossing of external borders, as provided for in the schengen framework; secondly, to develop this discipline further, especially as regards the crossing of internal borders. the proposal is divided into four headings: the first contains the general provisions; the second regulated the crossing of external borders and the conditions for entering the schengen area. the third deals with internal borders, reiterating the abolition of all controls and specifying the cases and the manner in which such controls may be reintroduced; the fourth contains the final provisions. the rapporteur's amendments are largely intended to clarify certain aspects of the commission's proposal in terms of vocabulary alone. these changes are intended to improve the quality of the text and, at the same time, to clarify and simplify the articles. this will be very useful when the border crossing code finally comes into force and becomes a daily use for border guards and authorities. the rapporteur has worked admirably in close contact with all the shadow rapporteurs and the political groups, and has seen firsthand how borders are being crossed today. the rapporteur has, through this continuous dialogue, met all the requests that have been received. in addition, he has had lengthy discussions with the council, with the luxembourg presidency, and it is therefore appropriate that the report be voted on during the current presidency. the compromise reached with the various political groups, in agreement with the council and the commission, was voted on and approved unanimously by the libe committee. i myself made sure before the vote in committee that vice-president frattini's cabinet was also in favour of the report, and i also got a very positive response to each and every one of the amendments proposed. it is precisely because of this general consensus, reached through a complicated series of bilateral and multilateral compromises, that the report should not be modified at the present time and should therefore be accepted in its entirety. having followed its development and having seen in detail that there is no problem, i personally, as shadow rapporteur, suggest that i give my full support to the rapporteur, whom i thank, in a very substantial way, for the valuable work he has done.
i would like to thank mrs trautmann for her excellent report, which deals with the subject of bridging the digital divide. a problem of balanced development, but above all of social equity. information technology is therefore a key element in building a more culturally rich and cohesive society. the information society must be open to all: an element of democracy which takes account of cultural diversity and encourages the participation of citizens, actors and not just consumers. the role of public investment in safeguarding the open nature of information technology is fundamental, for example in ensuring the development of free software and its adoption in public administrations. there is also the question of governance, which europe must address in order to establish a mechanism of control at international level. the mandate of ican is coming to an end. the aim is to ensure the representativeness and legitimacy of the new internet management body by defining a governance with several actors: governments, ngos, the private sector and civil society, each with their own roles and clear obligations. the proposal must reaffirm the common good of knowledge as a means of development and emancipation. unfortunately, there are worrying signs from the council that are going in the opposite direction. the software patentability directive attacks the right to the free movement of knowledge, calling into question the objective of making the information society accessible to all and thus undermining the very foundations of the lisbon strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr libicki's question plunges the knife into the plague of contradictions of this europe designed to suit the interests of big business, a europe which its citizens do not want, as at least those europeans who have had the opportunity to express themselves on this subject have shown. the commission's failure to act, the failure of the british government, or at least of its supposed control bodies, is evident from the examination of the documentation, but so is the gap between the interests of the people and the interests of a very small number of plutocrats and speculators. in the lloyd case, the subject is very identifiable, whereas, as it happens, the controller is not. there is a legitimate doubt that the solvency directive 239/73 was not respected with the conscious acquiescence, if not complicity, of the european commission as well as the competent supervisory bodies of the british treasury. "once the law is made, deception is found", says a popular italian proverb. the old adage applies to britain and the european commission: but that doesn't change the fact that the insurance business is a gamble that lloyds have won almost every time for centuries. there is no penalty for those who take risks in investments and financial speculation, because there is no penalty for this type of entrepreneur for small savers, for consumers, for the very frequent victims of their dangerous and unbiased financial games, for those who produce with the sweat of their brow by investing material and moral resources and by this extracting income. anyone who plays a bet on probability, a bet that obviously gives more profit than rebates, since this activity has been practiced for centuries, must also accept the risks; the lloyds case is a typical example of the unfair claim of those who would always win just because they have wealth to risk by taking advantage of those who, the vast majority, bet their lives on work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr blair, you are not the solution to europe's problems, you are in fact one of the problems. you're not the new guy, but you're the old guy. the problems of europe are called the inability to work for peace and you, let us not forget, went to war in iraq with bush. they are called democratic, political, economic and social crises, and they are the result of the very liberal, monetarist and technocratic policies which you are promoting, peddling old ideas as new ones. you talk about political europe, but in reality you leave it entirely to the market, because for you politics, economics and the market are the same thing. in fact, if you see the death of this liberal constitutional treaty, the recipe you propose is completely wrong, with liberal reforms, starting with services and the labour market: this recipe is not healthy even in your own country, as we saw with the elections. i'm not going. the solution to europe's problems is quite different, and it lies precisely in that left-wing and mass europeanism which has consciously emerged from citizens who have read and understood and expressed themselves by voting in france and the netherlands, who have explicitly opposed not turkey or enlargement but liberalism and who are calling for a material and formal constitution for a new europe of peace, democracy and socialism, which can find a broad convergence on this with many citizens who voted a critical yes. this is our europe and this parliament has a great responsibility which it cannot and must not evade. it is not a question of pursuing new alleged leaders, but of being a new parliament to the core. this crisis is not a crisis of accounts and selfishness, of computers against farmers, but we do not forget how the mad cow started. this too, but above all it is the undeniable crisis of a liberal idea: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure to reach agreement on the financial perspective is all the more serious because it was the first act of the council after the difficulties encountered by the ratification of the treaty. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. the recent european council took many decisions on foreign policy to meet external commitments that cannot be postponed. i hope that this is a sign of the will not to give up on a real policy and the prospect of a real european foreign minister. it is important that we have reached the brussels conference on iraq, but the situation on the ground remains serious and out of control. the united kingdom supported military intervention, pointing to it as a tool to solve the entire middle east crisis. this gives your term even more responsibility than the final settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict. the iraqi incident also confirms that europe's international role is unthinkable outside a multilateral context and that it was therefore a grave mistake, yesterday, to divide europe and today, to see some member states renounce the objective of a european seat in the future united nations security council. you said you didn't want a free trade area, that's important. however, the risk of slipping into this perspective is in things like: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. this is all the more necessary in view of the vision, which i believe you share, of a large europe which does not close itself off to the balkans and turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the french and the dutch did not say 'no' to the constitution, they did not reject the values of europe, but they did give a negative assessment of today's europe, which is too far removed from the people and often captive to a bureaucracy that is deaf to the voice of the citizens. that is why the europe of politics and values of which you spoke cannot stop its course, cannot give up its role as an international protagonist and peacemaker in the face of some failure. to achieve the objectives we are working towards, we need some important changes, significant reforms to provide concrete answers to the people of europe, in short, we need a union that does not deal with everything and vice versa, issuing dozens and dozens of incomprehensible directives. on the contrary, we need a union that tackles the problems which cannot be solved by the national states in the era of globalisation: from foreign policy to defense, from emergencies to immigration to counterterrorism, to the trade challenges with china. the economic sector also needs to be reformed in line with the lisbon process: the aim is to reduce unemployment drastically by supporting smes. we share his analysis and we appreciate his efforts to promote a europe that is a leader, able to keep pace with the times and to keep to its commitments. we have a year to approve the budget, we can achieve the target we missed last week, but at the same time we must not give up the commitments we have made to the countries that are looking closely at the union. bulgaria and romania can enter our common home in 2007, with turkey we can start negotiations, to have a union that looks east, but also south, south also towards africa, a continent that awaits important answers from europe with great hope: we can't back out now. mr president, we share the view of your presidency, and for that reason you can count on the collaboration of the italian delegation of forza italia, on active collaboration in the coming months, convinced that the british presidency will take steps forward for the people's europe.
the rapporteur. i would just like to say, mr president, that this vote is the result of a long debate in parliament and that you have the credit of having completed this journey. i therefore thank you on behalf of the whole of parliament and i also thank the commission and the president-in-office of the council. we have not only agreed on one point, but i think we have reached a balance overall. i also thank my colleagues in the committee, and in particular mr lehne, who has made a great contribution to this important achievement, which brings parliament - as we said this morning - into the spotlight of a united europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this statute for five reasons. first, because i don't think it's the right time. while all europe is discussing the future of europe, we are discussing the future of our financial system. secondly, i am against a tax advantage. thirdly, i do not think it is the right message to send by having our pensions paid for by the taxpayer. fourthly, i believe that we should not get a percentage of a judge's salary, but the opposite should be the case: the judges should get a percentage of the salary of a representative freely elected by the sovereign people. it would sound much better if a judge got 250% of a member's salary. after all, all this is geared to the future. we are therefore deciding on the future members of parliament, and i do not think that is very correct. i don't think that's a very positive result. that is why i voted against it, and many of my colleagues who voted for it today certainly did so not out of conviction but because of the pressure of the media, and that is a pity!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that immunity protects parliament and the parliamentary function within it, rather than protecting the parliamentary symbol. as a result, i wouldn't make too much of it. however, as regards our colleague mr marchiani, i am really astonished by the judgment of the french court of cassation, which totally disregards the 1965 protocol on the privileges and immunities of members of parliament, stating that the same rules on this matter do not apply to european parliamentarians as they do to national parliamentarians. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has repeatedly called for the application of the rules of the protocol on privileges and immunities, which provide that members of the european parliament are to be treated in the same way as members of national parliaments. on this basis the report was drawn up and i recommend it to this plenary session.
the agenda includes the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the common position defined by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the patentability of inventions implemented by means of electronic computers [11979/1/2004 - c6-0058/2005 - 2002/0047 ((cod)) ] (rapporteur: michel rocard) (a6-0207/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the common position states that it wants to exclude the patentability of pure software, it does in fact set the conditions for patenting software algorithms. unlike copyright, which protects the entire program, patentability of software would allow a monopoly on the use of generic instructions. with the patentability of these algorithms, in a complex program that is nothing more than a combination of thousands of instructions, you could be breaking hundreds of patents at the same time. for example, linux, which is now used in various programs including by public administrations, would infringe 283 us patents. the introduction of patentability legislation could therefore mean, at least in europe, the end of free and open source software. if software patentability were to be approved, which is strongly desired by us multinationals and european countries that profit from the us monopoly, there would be a shift in costs from the technological and innovative sector to the legal and insurance sector. this would help to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from the software development process because of the costs and legal complexities. in the end, there would be less competition and less innovation, and european consumers would have to bear higher costs with less choice. the lisbon strategy for the european economic model combines technological innovation, competitiveness and solidarity. however, the council's position is the opposite. the software patentability directive attacks the right to the free movement of knowledge and calls into question the objective of an information society accessible to all. for this reason, the fight against software patentability that we are waging in this parliament becomes a fight for freedom and democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, innovation and research must be a shared heritage and not a privilege for a few. it must therefore be emphasized that the patentability of software as such must be prevented. it is important to remember this principle in order to arrive at a directive which represents a fair balance between unbridled patentability, which risks paralysing innovation and competition, and the need to protect properly those whose invention can really add value on the market. we also call for the patentability requirements to be assessed with the utmost care, taking into account novelty, originality and industrial applicability. this is the only way to avoid the excessive extension of patent rights to the detriment of small and mediumsized enterprises and, consequently, the proliferation of patent litigation, as has been the case for the past 15 years in the united states. in conclusion, we welcome the idea of a fund of financial, technical and administrative support for smes that are oriented towards patentability. in particular, we believe that it is essential to develop a proper european patent system, aimed at ensuring equal access for small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few years the continuous flowering of ideas in information technology has made it possible to reduce the technological and information gaps. the patentability of software blocks free inventiveness - which until now has been possible even without large capital - in order to defend a monopoly on the use of generic techniques, the result of a very dangerous commercial and political absolutism. this is a serious restriction on freedom of thought and its reinterpretation, which only serves to hold businesses and public administrations hostage to the microsoft lobby and the few multinationals outside europe. patents are a danger to the development of open source software and a disadvantage for all italian and european information and communication companies - which are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises or even micro-enterprises - as well as an economic disadvantage for the diversification of the information systems of administrations. in defence of freedom of scientific research, the right to the transmission of culture and knowledge and the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual, we must save europe from software patentability by opposing the european directive which intends to introduce it and supporting the amendments tabled by mr buzek, mr rocard and mr duff.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i feel particularly obliged to congratulate mr rocard, mr kauppi and mr lehne on their work, and all those who have been involved in this very difficult negotiation. i must say that the committee on legal affairs has found an acceptable balance which is appropriate to the cultural choices and the debate which has taken place so far in this and other places. i am of course obliged to defend this balance, because it is a result of parliament. like all those who are interested in the subject, i too consider it useful to have a harmonizing directive on the patentability of computer-generated inventions, the aim of which is to eliminate the ambiguities and uncertainties arising from the adoption of different interpretative practices by the patent offices of the member states and to define precisely the scope of protection. however, it must be borne in mind that the adoption of the patentability directive will only be able to stimulate the process of technological innovation if two fundamental issues are resolved. first, the ambiguity about the concept of technical contribution must be removed, which would undermine the effectiveness of the directive as an instrument for the harmonization of patent granting procedures. secondly, a precise and decisive provision on interoperability must be adopted, which prevents the development of standardised solutions in the field of ict. the objective of harmonization cannot be achieved in contradiction with the principles on which the existing patent system is based, which over the years has proved to be an appropriate instrument and an effective incentive for industry, both for small and large enterprises. it is sufficient to consider the increasing convergence between information technology and telecommunications, which makes it possible for firms to offer and use integrated software packages and services implemented by means of electronic computers. in order to allow for the proper development of these new packages, it will be necessary to ensure that the protection conferred by copyright and patent protection can be combined for inventions implemented by means of electronic computers, without the software being patentable. europe must deal with the question of competitiveness, particularly in these difficult times. the patent must help the european economy and the european citizens. if the directive is not clear, it will be to the advantage of non-european companies and we will be failing in our role and our duty towards the lisbon strategy, the much-talked-about new social project and development. as i said, the commission has done a valuable job because it has gone beyond the common position. it is now up to parliament to complete the text by defining the points which are not clear. if this does not happen, the commission will be responsible for a non-sectoral proposal, which is almost impossible to define, instead of a global proposal covering the whole patent, which will satisfy small and large companies. i would like to make this appeal jointly to parliament and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, patents are an important part of technological progress. however, it is necessary to go back to the original meaning of the pact between the inventor and the company, according to which the inventor has a temporary monopoly on the exploitation of the invention, while the company benefits from the increase in knowledge resulting from the full disclosure of the patent content and thus the basis for further progress. i think it's worth looking at how certain patents are filed. i have the impression that there is a growing tendency to make patents generic, precisely to keep claims as broad as possible. it seems to me that the law firms have taken over and that the loser in this game is society as a whole. this is particularly true of software. in fact, many patents granted are but a vague description of a logical process. for software, i think that copyright protection is enough. that is why i supported many of the amendments tabled by mr rocard, whom i thank for his commitment as rapporteur. i think that the period of protection could be shortened. however, if the inventor is seeking stronger protection, such as patent protection, he cannot derogate from a full manifestation of the invention and must make this the binding basis for claims. this also applies more generally to limit the possibility of legal uncertainty. in this respect, i believe that parliament should play a more decisive role in the framework of the strengthening of the union, including by defining a common position on the european patent office. i am personally in favour of a reform which simplifies procedures, including the adoption of a single language, namely english, through rules which also allow small and mediumsized enterprises to use this basic instrument.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the official declarations, an amendment has been made to article 2 to allow patent protection to extend to software contained in a technical instrument. this is the gateway to software patentability. it's like one day it's possible to patent scales, notes and chords. it's like if the pentatonic scale were patented, so suddenly a lot of blues music would be in violation of that patent and all the songwriters would have to pay royalties to the people who recorded it. patents have already been applied for ideas that are not new, such as the mouse click to perform an action or the inequality operator in the source code, and for other trivial ideas that are used today in virtually all software in circulation. moreover, if interoperability were to be blocked by software patents and the consumer were to be forced to buy and use products from the same company all the time, there would be enormous consequences, especially economic ones. no company should be able to build a monopoly on proprietary software. a small firm would have to pay enormous expenses to avoid patent infringement and to defend its inventions in court. competition would then no longer be a market issue but would also become a legal issue. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the use of the euro in the community budget. without software patents, europe could keep costs down, stimulate innovation, improve security and create jobs. to the harvard business review headline "patents are smart bombs", i would add "against the possibility of future interaction between different cultures and worlds".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as radical members of parliament we have been engaged on this subject since the last parliament, in particular with mr cappato, and we are quite clear about the position of parliament which has not been accepted. we are now discussing it again in a situation where, from the extreme right to the extreme left of this parliament, we have interventions - which i particularly appreciate as a liberal - in defence of the market, which is threatened and polluted by the jungle of the bureaucratic army which, following the big monopoly and oligopoly groups, is ready to prevent, with the language of legal bureaucratic power, the exercise of freedom of invention and freedom of the market. i believe that if the amendments tabled by mr rocard and those tabled by myself and 50 other colleagues, including emma bonino, are adopted tomorrow, we will have a strategy and a chance of winning. if not, i agree with mr duff that the conciliation procedure will no longer have to be based on the fact that spain, austria, belgium and italy did not vote in favour of the directive, as they did in may 2004. i am sure that we will be able to change the commission's and the council's positions in the liberal and legal direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two worlds that are asking the european institutions at this moment to have the capacity to draw up a more open and flexible strategy on a subject so important for the development not only of the economy but also of society. they are asking us to correct the common position in the direction of greater openness and flexibility. these are two worlds which are important for europe and its future, namely that of small and mediumsized enterprises and that of young people. many colleagues have already spoken on small and mediumsized enterprises, and i share the call for greater flexibility in order to avoid a tightening of the patentability directive, which could be an obstacle to the activities of small and mediumsized enterprises and become an anti-competitive weapon for their development. i want to remember the waiting of the young. i think that in very few other subjects discussed in this chamber, there has been such a strong mobilization by young people, movements and associations who use software not only to communicate and learn, but also as an activity, as independent work, for a thousand uses halfway between volunteering and new professions, which are managed independently and are also so important for the development of a society with a more open economic organization and more linked to the ability of young people to organize themselves. i think we have often said, mostly rhetorically, that europe is close to the young. today we have the opportunity - and i hope parliament will not waste it - to be very close to these young people who have asked for us and to the many movements that have expressed themselves, and i think that parliament cannot fail them. i shall therefore support the amendments tabled by mr rocard and mr duff and others to give greater certainty and clarity to the common position of europe. i think we need to be consistent on two points. firstly, if we argue that software is not patentable, we must be careful not to extend the scope of application, as this would risk contradicting ourselves. secondly, it is important to ensure that patent protection is not rigid and concentrated in the hands of a few, as this would hinder development and innovation in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must defend the freedom of debate of members of parliament, regardless of the party or movement they represent, from attempts to restrict their expression in the context of political action. that is why i voted for immunity. in this particular case, mr bossi is being prosecuted for having supported the betrayal and political unreliability of mr comencini, first against the msi and then against the league. this is a historically established fact. if i say today that the ministers of the italian republic, gianfranco fini, altiero matteoli, gianni alemanno and mario landolfi, are traitors to the political project and the statute of the msi, liquidators of the alternative to the liberal and communist system through the statutory changes and the aims of that party, annulled in a different subject, can i be questioned and prosecuted for this action or do i exercise my right to political polemics? if i commit a crime by claiming their treason, they denounce me... (the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda for the joint debate is as follows: - the interim report by mr konstantinos hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund (com (2004) 0492 - c6-0163 (avc)) (a6-0177/2005), - the interim report by mr alfonso andria, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the cohesion fund (com (2004) 0494 - c6-0166 (avc)) (a6-0178/2005), - the report by mr giovanni claudio fava, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the european parliament and the council regulation on the european regional development fund (com (2004) 0169 - c6-0169/2004), - the interim report by mr david olvera (cod) (a6-0184 (avc)) on the proposal for a council regulation on the european parliament and the council regulation establishing the european fisheries fund (com (2004) 0494 - c6-01694) (com (2004) 01695)), on behalf of the committee on regional development, on employment and social affairs (com (2004) 0169-01694) 01694) - c6-0169-01694) (cod) 0492 (c) (a6-06-06-06-0495)), on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european fisheries fund (com (2004) 0169-06-06-06-06-06-06 (cod)) for the european parliament and the european parliament and the committee on employment and social affairs committee (com (2004)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report i am presenting today was, in its elaborate drafting phase, characterized by a working method based on dialogue, even beyond the specific political affiliations, and on intensive collaboration, first within the parliamentary committee on regional development and then within the committee of the regions with the representatives of the council and with the many associations and non-governmental organizations. i felt it was important to pay particular attention to contacts and exchanges of views with my colleagues in the house, with the shadow rapporteurs for the political groups and with the opinion rapporteurs of the other committees in parliament, and with my colleagues in my group, the alde group. from the outset i have greatly appreciated - and i wish to repeat this publicly here - the particular attention of commissioner danuta hübner, who, in the numerous occasions of our meeting and until last night, has always shown great readiness and openness to take parliament's requests into account. i have always looked with great interest at the commission's original proposal for a regulation on the cohesion fund, which today, in the wake of the crisis in the union and the lack of agreement on the financial perspective, is of greater importance, since it provides an adequate response to the needs of an enlarged union, with a view to economic and social cohesion. i therefore share mr hatzidakis's wish that the problem of the financial perspective be resolved in good time, by the end of this year. regional policy is the best instrument for bringing citizens closer to europe and must therefore have ambitious objectives and be equipped with the necessary instruments to achieve them. i would therefore like to stress the importance of increasing the financial allocation of the cohesion fund from the eur 18 billion foreseen for the 2000-2006 programming period to eur 62.99 billion, should the council reach agreement on the proposal approved by parliament on 8 june. the extension of the scope of the cohesion fund is also in line with the relevant provisions of the treaty, the priorities decided in lisbon and the gothenburg perspective for sustainable development. this will help to meet the large funding needs of the beneficiary member states in the fields of environment, transport infrastructure and sustainable development. in my work in the committee on regional development, i tried to make some changes and to add a number of original elements to the commission's text, such as the introduction of a premium system in the form of a community reserve for quality and efficiency and the strengthening of exchanges by promoting best practices for national, regional and local administrations. i have asked the commission to draw up a list of indicative priorities for the programming phase, with a view to the quality and effectiveness of community funding. i have highlighted the issue of disability, calling for an explicit reference to disabled people to be inserted in article 2 of the general regulation and for projects financed by the cohesion fund to provide for the possibility of removing barriers and obstacles of all kinds. i also gave some space to the great theme of the environment, calling for guarantees of greater coherence between projects financed under the cohesion fund and those financed under other community programmes. finally, i made a strong reference to the island and peripheral states, calling on the commission to take account of their natural and demographic handicaps. mr president, i must also add, with reference to the amendments tabled, that i personally do not think it possible to accept - and i say this also on behalf of my group - everything that concerns the question of the non-application of the n+2 rule for the cohesion fund, that is to say the introduction of ex officio decommitment. my previous experience as a local administrator has taught me that this standard effectively contributes to the correct and accurate preparation of projects and the management of funds. i therefore hope that the commission will allow more flexibility in the application and tackle the problem of non-refundable vat in order to be eligible for funding from the funds. there is a rather specific position on this, which commissioner danuta hübner wanted to stress once again yesterday in committee, saying that making vat eligible would mean reducing the financial resources available for the rest of cohesion policy. my report was approved by a very large majority in committee and i hope that the same will be done in this house.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the commissioner and the other rapporteurs. i think we have created a path of work which is useful to all, also in view of the quality of the reports which we are putting to the vote in this house. i am in charge of the european regional development fund, which is certainly the most important of the structural funds in terms of the amount of resources. it was set up 30 years ago and has the key function of correcting the regional imbalances in europe. this is a function which is laid down in an article of the treaty, which reminds us of the needs and requirements of a europe based on solidarity, on the ability to build equal opportunities and conditions of fairness, especially now that we are faced with the challenge of enlargement. the ten new member states represent a great asset in terms of the quality of policy, a great step forward in european history. however, we must also remember that regional imbalances are becoming more pronounced. at the moment, one third of all european resources belong to a geographical area covering only one tenth of the european union, and we have seen a doubling of the number of regions eligible for objective 1, that is to say regions with high structural imbalances and economic difficulties. this is the essential function of a policy of attention and solidarity. if the union were just a free trade area, we could simply redistribute income between the richer and poorer regions. on the contrary - and i thank the commissioner for this - we have the choice of a political, social and economic project to be entrusted to the structural funds, that is, the choice of a development model which serves the european integration process as a whole. it's a development model that makes some meaningful choices. it favours the choice of field made in gothenburg and lisbon and therefore chooses the path of the knowledge economy, knowledge, innovation, scientific research, training, understood as a permanent opportunity throughout the life span of men and women, as well as risk prevention and sustainable development. this is a very ambitious project, which naturally has a cross-cutting objective, namely the quality of spending. mr president, commissioner, we have not always spent everything, and even when we have, we have not always spent it well. there are regions - including my own - which have received a lot of resources but which have remained at the levels of disadvantage they were at ten, fifteen or twenty years ago in terms of employment levels, the quality and structure of infrastructure, scientific research and innovation processes. it is clear that we must make a qualitative leap in the area of the appropriateness of expenditure and for this to happen we must select the objectives by setting a few priorities. that is why our group is opposed to the desire, which is understandable but not necessary, to widen indiscriminately the fields of intervention of this structural fund. we are proposing a vote against certain amendments which would like to overlap too many objectives and too many priorities. we propose to vote against the understandable wish of some colleagues to include vat in the list of reimbursable expenditure. we do not want to reopen a debate which has been extensively debated in committee, but we believe that value added tax has, as the council, the commission and the court of auditors have pointed out, led to considerable abuses in the past when it came to the reimbursement of part of the vat. in particular, we believe that such inclusion would create an intolerable disparity between countries with vat rates ranging from 1 to 25 per cent. the same applies to the construction of new housing. we have approved an amendment, which we hope the commission will accept, on the construction of social housing. however, to believe that the structural funds can be invested in housing generally would mean to withdraw substantial resources from these funds. we are satisfied with the results achieved. we have strengthened the role of the partnership, which we regard as a great school of civilization and democratic practice. we have also secured special attention for the fight against organised and mafia crime, with the possibility of using the structural funds also to create the know-how needed to deal with the pervasiveness of mafia crime. we have also succeeded in making the principle of non-discrimination a horizontal principle. the rapporteur has tabled only two amendments on this subject, which are intended to bring the whole text together and make it coherent. i would like to conclude by saying, as mr hatzidakis said, that the quality of our spending is in any case dependent on the existence of sufficient resources. that is why i believe that this parliament must ensure that resources are not being diverted from solidarity, that is to say from the ability to build a europe that moves at one speed. it is not just a principle laid down in the treaties, but it is the principle on which we must rely for the future of the process of political and economic integration in europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, helping to correct territorial imbalances is an objective of particular interest and practical value at this difficult time for europe, provided that it offers citizens a clear and comprehensible plan. the rapporteur for the european regional development fund, mr fava, has done a very good job in this respect, taking into account the contributions of the other committees consulted for their opinions and defining, on the basis of a financial dimension which must not be reduced, a credible hypothesis for reducing disparities. a key part of this reduction is gender mainstreaming. the fact that the commission's initial proposal lacked an explicit reference to mainstreaming as an added value for achieving regional balance is a worrying step backwards. i am therefore pleased, also on behalf of the committee on equal opportunities, that the report has managed to reinstate this aspect and i ask the house to vote in favour of it. i also ask the commission and the council representative not to consider the overcoming of the gender imbalance as a negotiable issue, including in the bodies for the management, monitoring and control of the structural funds which the member states will have to set up.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their good work. article 160 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that the european regional development fund is to contribute to the correction of the main regional imbalances in the community by contributing to the development and structural adjustment of regions whose development is lagging behind and to the conversion of industrial regions in decline. regional policy is therefore an opportunity which we cannot afford to lose and which must be managed in the best possible way. i am referring in particular to the southern regions of italy, which are covered by the former objective 1, now called the 'convergence' objective, and which still have enormous problems and are seriously lagging behind in many areas. regional policy can indeed be very useful for these regions, although some mistakes of the past need to be corrected. we have not always used all the resources at our disposal and at other times we have used them in the least appropriate way. the report by mr fava, with which i agree, seeks to correct this by focusing on knowledge, research and development. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is being hammered by the sword of damocles of the union's financial perspective, which has a decisive influence on the definition of the european union's cohesion policies. cohesion policy is the most appropriate instrument for reviving the role of political europe, whose crisis is often caused by neoliberal choices and the militarisation of the area of freedom, security and justice. the rapporteurs have done a very good job of putting the new instruments in place to achieve the objectives of the new cohesion policy. i would like to thank mr fava and mr andria in particular for their work. however, in order to plan for the future, it is also necessary to take stock of the impact of the structural funds on the societies and economies of europe's weak areas. often, the structural funds have not served to improve the quality of life of the citizens of depressed areas, but have been a bargain for the mafia, have been given out in a patronising way or have been used to cover budgetary gaps and sometimes have not even been spent. while the question of the amount of financial resources is being discussed, the quality of spending must also be considered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking this time as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group on the erdf regulation. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fava, on his excellent work. i welcome the rapporteur's reference to public security as a safeguard against the infiltration of organised crime into the spending processes of the structural funds. significant convergence points have been reached between many of us, from different backgrounds and both geographical and political backgrounds, on the great theme of social inclusion. in the course of the debate in committee, when the amendments were being considered, compromises and summary points were found to be very effective. i am glad that the rapporteur has taken the requests of my group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, into account. in particular, we have gained greater attention to the urban dimension. the emphasis was placed on the driving force that a good programme of investment and management of funds directed to the cities can have for the economic and socio-cultural revival of the suburbs and the surrounding rural areas, as the commissioner also said today. this will act as a real engine for the sustainable and lasting development of the territories. finally, as regards the disability issue, i asked for a specific commitment to the erdf to promote initiatives aimed at removing architectural barriers to works financed by the fund, so as to ensure equal opportunities in access to it. as regards the other issues, particularly the vat issue, i believe that they have already been discussed extensively before.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hübner, it is in times of political uncertainty, such as the one we are going through, that the european institutions, in order to be credible, must show firmness and give certain answers to the demands of the citizens. the european parliament must therefore be able to turn political ideas into decisive action. the reports under discussion today are an effective response to the many problems of cohesion policy and regional development which have arisen in the wake of enlargement. the statistical criterion alone is inadequate to indicate the real economic situation of the various european regions whose development is lagging behind and is insufficient to give concrete answers in terms of solidarity to those regions which still have to overcome the disadvantages caused by structural difficulties or by objective situations such as insularity or peripheral location. i would like to stress that cohesion policy cannot be just an opportunity to affirm its decisive importance for european integration and for the real involvement of all citizens. to be effective, constructive and above all credible, it will have to be supported by sufficient financial resources. the 0.46% allocated to cohesion policy under the proposed regulation is a modest figure, given the large increase in the population eligible for the convergence objective following unprecedented enlargement. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs and the proposers. i would just like to mention a few aspects of the european fisheries fund, where modernisation processes do not include the engines of fishing vessels. renewing the fleet does not necessarily mean increasing fishing effort. in conclusion, i would stress the need to overcome the limitations of the outdated model, which is mainly focused on the land side, and to aim at achieving full recognition of the specificities of maritime crossborder problems.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission and mr wallis for the excellent work they have done, which has produced a useful legislative text. we are, however, very perplexed by one point in the text, on which we hope to persuade mr wallis to change his mind. this point concerns article 7 on specific legislation on environmental damage. we do not think it appropriate to remove this specification and we believe that, in the overall economy of mr wallis's report, the removal of this specification would deprive the commission's proposal of an important element. as regards environmental damage, i believe that there is a great deal of weakness and lack of legal certainty at european level, as well as in many member states, and that there is no advantage in depriving victims of this choice. my group has decided to abstain in the event that this aspect of mr wallis's report is adopted. however, we hope that we will be able to persuade mr wallis by tomorrow to drop this amendment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find myself in a rather amusing position, having been the only one to abstain from the opinion of the committee on development. there were no votes against. i am quite frank in saying that my abstention was due to the rejection of two paragraphs which i consider important, namely the reference to military occupation and the refusal of war with the consequent withdrawal of the occupying troops, and the criticism of sovereignty and the deprivation of economic sovereignty connected with the corrupt and bad management of bremen. dear minister straw, the present is history. the daily deaths and the murder of agent calipari bear witness to that. the representatives of the iraqi civil society were guests yesterday, and they are here today in the gallery, and i greet them with great respect. these are people who live in insecurity every day, but who do not give up their commitment to act for an iraq free from military occupation, terrorist acts or armed resistance. they live in fallujah, basra and baghdad, they believe in justice and popular participation and they have been victims of saddam hussein's dictatorship. yesterday i realized how important it is to empower these people. as our opinion states, the reconstruction process must include their involvement and the financial support of their projects. our opinion also places a strong emphasis on the promotion of development measures to help women, who must acquire and not lose rights, and young people traumatised by dictatorship, embargo and war, as well as measures to help the country to rid itself of mines and cluster bombs and to re-confide control and reconstruction projects to the iraqi authorities. our opinion also calls for the involvement of the united nations. above all, it calls for respect for human rights, which are being tragically and shamefully violated, and for the continuity of the european union's commitment to its presence in iraq, as expressed here by the council and the commission. finally, as my time has run out, i would ask that the cancellation of the debt, which commissioner waldner considers necessary, not be considered as a substitute for aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report could and should have been more courageous, because we are talking about matters of life and death and the strategic future of our union. the text has certainly been improved, but in too many places it is outdated by the reality on the ground. this war is lost and has helped the jihadist terrorists much more than it has weakened them. if bush were wise, he would announce a full withdrawal, without maintaining strategic bases, and implement it with a specific timetable. as always, in asymmetrical conflicts there is no military solution, but only a political solution. the new iraqi government is trying. in fact, he's not dealing with terrorists, but with the resistance, including them in the reconstruction process. that is why, mr dimitrakopoulos, it will be important to include the word 'resistance' in the report, because today in iraq there are both insurgents against the occupation and terrorists, and their objectives are different. moreover, it was equally important to remember that the war against iraq was coldly wanted by bush and deliberately backed by a whirlwind of lies. iraq, in fact, had no weapons of mass destruction, nor had it any ties to al qaeda. the invasion was a moral duty to rebuild iraq, at least materially, but arrogance, incompetence, corruption and political-military ineptitude prevented it. so even though they have gone through the shame of abu grahib, they have lost without winning the hearts and minds of the iraqis. i therefore also address the representatives of the council and the commission, saying that it is time to get out of the weakness of the past divisions, and to focus even more on a common policy to get out of the impotence typical of the smaller coalitions. europe is worthwhile if it thinks, decides and works together. otherwise, it's just a nice collection of bonsai trees trampled by the first elephant that comes along.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has been divided over the war in iraq, and the dimitrakopoulos report is a miracle in seeking a possible balance. however, there are still many shortcomings. the real situation on the ground unfortunately confirms all the doubts expressed by those who had opposed military intervention. we have been waiting for the turning point with the fall and capture of saddam hussein and then we have been hoping that this turning point would come after the elections last january and with the allawi government's real ability to stabilise the country. in fact, we know that things work differently. if you consider the civilian casualties of the kamicazes, the uncounted acts of violence by iraqis against iraqis and the increase in weekly attacks on the occupying troops, iraq is the largest terrorist training camp on the planet. but now we must not look back but we must look to the future, and that is why we have given our backing to the allawi government, we have been committed to reconstruction and we have supported the recent resolutions. we have set ourselves three objectives in this respect: preventive engagement - as the solana doctrine says - with the countries of the region, which can help us not only to prevent the export of terrorists but also to help iraq to get out of the tunnel; training of the security forces, which are indispensable for planning the withdrawal of the occupying troops; and finally, the constitutional agreement. this is really the last turning point. either we are able to hold the country together with the constitutional agreement or an inexorable civil war will break out. the signs of tension in kurdistan also make us think that this is really the last chance for europe to come out of the situation in a better way in the coming months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr dimitrakopoulos, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i mean, if you don't deal with the past, the past will come back to you sooner or later, with a very salty and dramatic account. if we do not condemn the war today, we cannot understand what is happening in iraq at the moment. war and terrorism continue to feed off each other. before the iraq war, there was no terrorism. we must have the courage to say that the occupying forces are an element that produces insecurity and not security. it takes courage to say that the united states and its allies went to iraq because there is oil in iraq and because they wanted to seize it, certainly not to propagate democracy. we met yesterday with representatives of civil society, human rights organisations, trade unions and women, who explained to us that this society is active and wants to be the protagonist of its future. europe must look at this too and not just at the relationship with a government elected in elections that took place under a foreign military occupation.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner michel and minister straw. we shall certainly take account of the assessments and written replies which have been sent to us in our committee. we are not just going to be the gatekeepers, but we are going to be acting for a common policy. on 2 july, i joined hundreds of thousands of people in marching through edinburgh to demand that poverty be written out of history and to ask the g8 countries for a fair trade policy, more development aid, strict controls on arms sales and a policy of peace and justice and not endless wars. it was a great demonstration, attended by children, women, men, old and young, aware of their actions. these people are a treasure for our democracy, they are voices to be heard. we in the european parliament did this by symbolically surrounding the hemicycle with a white band and asking members to put their signatures on it in support of the campaign organized by hundreds of organizations around the world. the signatures collected will be delivered by president borrell to minister straw for the g8 leaders to see. this is already an action, it is an assumption of responsibility. in his message to the g8, nelson mandela explicitly said that hunger is also hunger for justice and he added - and i quote him - that poverty, like slavery, is not a natural fact, but is determined by the actions of men and can be eradicated by the actions of human beings. he added that as long as poverty exists, there can be no true freedom. the fight against poverty is not an act of charity but of justice and the defence of a fundamental human right, namely the right to live with dignity. poverty is not a fatality, but the result of political and economic choices at regional, national and international levels, and must be considered illegal. the greatest scandal is not the existence of the problem of hunger and poverty, but rather the persistence of this problem despite the existence of the human and material resources necessary to deal with it with determination and resolve. these are the words at the end of the new york declaration, signed by 111 governments led by president lula, which outlined the instruments of financing for development, including taxation, transactions, the fight against tax evasion, cost reduction and corporate social responsibility. these instruments should be seen as complementary and not necessarily as a replacement for existing ones. overcoming poverty in poor countries, but also in layers of so-called rich countries, is not just about respecting the right to life it's the best weapon against fundamentalism, brutal conflict and terrorism. in recent years we have seen how structural adjustment programmes, wild privatisations and the unbridled liberalisation of markets and services - and i am not saying this because i am against trade - have contributed to the problem of hunger and poverty. i believe that we must be consistent in our choices and face with courage and vision the contradictions generated by international trade policies. when it comes to fair trade, we have to be consistent. we cannot invade the markets of african countries with our subsidized products and destroy local economies. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. for this reason, i think we must also look very carefully at reforms such as sugar, which are damaging to developing countries. the proposal to link aid to conditionality is also an important step we are taking, which creates the conditions for a real partnership. i hope that this awareness among the people and among ourselves will be carried over to the next round of the wto in hong kong and that the millennium development goals, which are a crucial intermediate step, can be achieved. the efforts of commissioner michel and the luxembourg presidency towards the council of ministers have been positive and have resulted in an increase in aid. this is an important step which should not be underestimated, but it is not enough to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. i hope that the british presidency, which is so conscious, can do much more. the 0.7 per cent claimed since 1970 must finally become real. there are many other useful interventions. for example, there has been a long-standing debate in parliament about increasing expenditure on development and education. to eradicate aids and to help the sick, not only more funds and a policy on access to medicines are needed, but also control and a vision of liberalizing licences. another important issue is the cancellation of the debt, which was called for yesterday by the african union summit. we did something, but it's not enough we cannot consider debt cancellation as part of the development aid budget, as is the case with iraq. much remains to be done if 2005 is to be a landmark year in the fight against poverty. africa has powerful resources that we can use. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the socialists of the new socialist international and as a member of the committee on development. according to rankings and benchmarks from organizations like the world bank, freedom house and transparency international, a growing number of african countries now have the leadership and governance to achieve economic results, but lack the means. even countries that are relatively well governed remain trapped in poverty. they are too poor to be able to trigger economic development processes or even to achieve basic growth. with extremely low domestic savings and equally low foreign investment flows, africa's current dynamics offer no hope of escape from poverty. rich countries must commit to doubling aid over the period 2005-2015, so that it reaches at least 0.5% of gdp by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015. this increase pales in comparison with the wealth of high-income countries or the world's military expenditure, which amounts to nine hundred billion dollars a year. the credibility and functioning of the international system is at stake. if decisive steps are not taken in 2005, poor countries, however well governed, will not be able to implement a strategy aimed at achieving the millennium goals and the already weak confidence in the promises of the international community in the fight against poverty will disappear completely.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good news that africa is once again at the forefront of political attention. however, i think there is still confusion about which policy to adopt and the recipes proposed are very different and some of them are very obvious. it is absolutely essential for us radicals that democracy, civil rights, the rule of law and certain rules should be the prerequisite for any political approach we decide to adopt, because there is no type of trade, whether private, domestic or international, that can function without rules, without laws and without the rule of law. however, the issues of democracy and the rule of law are simply added to the list of many things to be done. we are convinced that these two issues are the top of the list of priorities and i think we should be a little less hypocritical and admit that public aid can also be linked to progress by countries along this road. i personally do not understand how we can be in some sense so racist as to think that africans are perhaps too poor, too illiterate, too black to enjoy the same democratic rights that we enjoy. we're all pushing democracy in the arab world, but not in africa. i believe that if we do not follow this path, it will be yet another waste of public funds with poor or poor results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if poverty is to be consigned to history, the gap between words and deeds must be closed. that is why the time has come to choose a path which is at least partly new compared to the past. the neoliberal recipes have failed and europe's positive commitment as the main donor has so far not made a decisive impact. if the millennium development goals are to be achieved, the conditions for development must be created, including democracy and good governance, but also the opening of markets to agricultural products from poor countries and the cancellation of debt. in this connection, i would remind you that the cancellation of the debt of iraq alone corresponds to what sub-saharan africa has received over the last ten years. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope it is clear that our common interest is to create development in return for stability and security.
mr president, yesterday a very serious thing happened. italy was offended. (the president cut off the speaker)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
your first duties, not first by time but by importance and because without understanding those you cannot fulfill unless imperfectly the others, are towards "humanity", mazzini said. i therefore express my solidarity with those countries to which we have imagined that we can give alms and funds without worrying about their real development and the eradication of poverty. the cancellation of their debt will not eliminate the problem of development aid, which the international community must also guarantee, and the urgently needed health care; will not exempt us from association agreements with their governments and from promoting education and training programmes to integrate them into complex social, economic and political systems; to choose democratic forms of government, to have a future. that is, an opportunity, even outside their country, but in the knowledge that they can return and that they can feel like citizens, free. the political class must govern the processes of globalization with choices that are equivalent to guaranteeing them water, energy, food, health, freedom and education. the last european council decided to increase aid to eur 20 billion per year by 2010, and this is a sign of hope for many millions of people. we can end poverty, we are the first generation that can do it because we have the means.
mr president, i rise to speak on a point of order with reference to rule 152. we discussed the whole package of regional policies yesterday afternoon in the house. since the voting order is different, i would propose that my report on the cohesion fund and mr casa's report be put to the vote after mr hatzidakis's report, so that the whole package is voted on in the same order as yesterday's debate. i think that is more fair and i would ask you to consider this proposal.
mr president, i do not think that we can interpret this vote necessarily as an invitation to the commission to come forward with a new proposal perhaps similar to the one that has been rejected. i therefore believe that this matter should be discussed and defined together with the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council and the commission, in the fifty-nine seconds i have, i would simply like to point out a small detail. there's something you're ashamed of without realizing it. there was a memorial in this parliament last night and there are ceremonies planned for srebrenica next week. among the many shameful things that are being removed is one in particular called emma bonino. emma bonino has been removed, she no longer exists, she is not invited. i understand why this is so, because when emma bonino was in srebrenica as european commissioner, she desperately tried to warn the dutch government, which did not listen to her, with the consequences we all know. yes, emma bonino was at that location, as reuters can testify. all the recordings have been recovered. on the day of the tragedy, emma bonino contacted radio radical twice, but also the bbc, reporting that thousands of people were missing. mr morillon, we shall be able to discuss the question of responsibility, as well as all the initiatives, at another time. mr president, i thank you, my time is up. we shall see if it is possible to commemorate srebrenica in another way, at least paying tribute to the truth and the cowardice of europe and the un. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda includes the report by mr timoty kirkhope, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on: 1. the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european community, of the agreement between the european community and switzerland on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in one of the member states or in switzerland [13049/2004 - com (((2004) 0593 - c6-0240/2004 - 2004/0(200cns)) and2. the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european community, of the agreement between the european union, the european community and the swiss confederation on the swiss confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis [13054/2004 - com ((0593/2004 - c24/06 - 2004/01 - c199/2004 (a6/2005) ] (cns))
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps i can address the questions in general first. i think we are all generally pleased that these agreements are now in place, that one has already been adopted by referendum and that we can now begin the process of ratification. as i said, this is very important because it can be both a model for other countries and an opportunity for swiss citizens to get closer and closer to the european union. i would now like to return to the legal question, especially since it has been raised. not only the commission's legal service, but also the council's legal service has expressed its views. mr kirkhope, you have said it, but i would like to confirm it again. article 300 of the ec treaty defines four categories of cases in which the european parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement: (1) association agreements within the meaning of article 310 of the ec treaty; (2) agreements establishing a specific institutional framework by introducing cooperation procedures; (3) agreements having significant financial implications for the community; and (4) agreements amending a legal act adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 251 or 252 of the ec treaty. in all other cases, the european parliament may only deliver an opinion. the commission's legal service considers that the present agreements do not fall within the above categories of cases. the joint committees set up by the conventions have, in the opinion of our legal service, only limited powers in the context of dispute settlement. i therefore have to support the commission's view, although i have heard that, of course. i would like to say a few words about what mr von wogau has said here and what mr schwab has also mentioned. i think we have heard all the problems and questions you have mentioned, and they concern spatial cooperation, but above all regional cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. of course, they're more bilateral in nature. but i can see that there's a connection here. i cannot propose a solution here, but we are of course aware of this problem and perhaps it can be brought back to the table in discussions with switzerland from time to time. mr president, i have nothing further to add at this stage and i ask that parliament continue to pursue the appropriate procedures.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr gabriele zimmer, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the impact of european community lending operations in developing countries (a6-0183/2005)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the socialists in the new socialist international. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the main operational recommendation of the un millennium project is that each developing country, still in extreme poverty, adopt an ambitious national strategy so that it can achieve the agreed objectives within a decade. the countries concerned must draw up a precise financial plan, indicating how much domestic resources can be invested in the plan and how much will need to be obtained from donors. it is clear that the fight against poverty is the primary responsibility of the developing countries themselves, although it is equally clear that the achievement of the millennium development goals will require a substantial increase in public aid to break the poverty trap. in this context, community action, although well designed, must be optimized rapidly and the mechanisms for its implementation must be made more fluid and dynamic. these are necessary and appropriate improvements on the basis of practical and operational experience. there is no doubt that greater coherence and synergy between the different european aid programmes must be ensured, integrating european development policies, such as the millennium development goals established in 2000 and the cotonou agreement, and those of the eib. 2005 is the year of microcredit. it would be particularly important to adopt additional instruments to stimulate investment by small and medium-sized enterprises and to encourage entrepreneurship, particularly among women and young people. i would also like to stress one last point. in two weeks' time a delegation from this parliament, of which i have the honour to be a member, will be going to indonesia to the areas affected by the enormous tsunami tragedy. an entire area of our planet is at risk of losing its future. in this context, it is our responsibility to provide the eib with a new specific emergency mandate to enable these peoples to shape their future in a more secure way. the european parliament has a duty to help those who are on their knees and are trying to get up.
member of the commission. let me make a few final remarks on the importance of the eib's external activities in developing countries. as i said at the beginning of the debate, the eib is a very important partner of the commission in the implementation of new policy initiatives, particularly in the area of infrastructure provision in africa. we appreciate the progress made by the eib. several recommendations by parliament encourage it to continue along this path. we will continue to assist the bank in its efforts and seek to increase possible synergies between our two organisations with the aim of improving aid to developing countries. many of the answers to the questions and comments which have been made and which are very correct, obviously call for, or imply or would in any case imply, an update or amendment of the statutes. it is clear that the present statutes do not allow the wishes expressed to be met. we can think of several amendments, but i shall not be voting on that today. just know that we are considering it, although politically i feel it is difficult. in the meantime, we can already work on the renewal of the mandates, and we can also imagine changing the composition of the governing council, for example by bringing parity between the representatives of the finance ministers and the ministers responsible for development. the statutes and the composition of the board of governors are a major problem today. i think you have indicated this in your speech and others have also mentioned it. if i may make a personal observation, it would require that the finance ministers develop to the point where they consider that the development ministers have a say in the governors' council and that we can therefore move away from pure financial logic - i fear that is not the right way. on the other hand, president maystadt is currently exploring a way forward which would involve the creation of a development branch of the eib with a board of governors composed exclusively of development representatives. this subsidiary could then have the interest subsidy and could therefore much more flexibly incorporate the reflections and wishes that have been expressed concerning, for example, the social dimension. you are right: a number of goods and services are not negotiable or, at any rate, are not negotiable on the same terms as others. the environmental dimension, all such elements, are components which fall strictly within the sphere of development and require a different financial treatment, of a rather subsidized type. i agree with everything that has been said, but we must do with what we have at the moment. we must make the eib work better, contribute to improvements and at the same time think about its future. i must point out, however, and this is very important, that all the teams with which i have worked so far, both in the presidency and in the management of the eib - we have already had several meetings - have struck me with the modernity and openness they have shown towards these avenues. i have to say that we usually face much stronger conservatism when we want to make reforms of this kind. it is therefore interesting that the eib can be counted on to have this openness, flexibility and mentality. i sincerely feel that they share in many respects the concerns expressed here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the commission statement on the implementation of the community action plan on forest regulation, governance and trade (flegt).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that an analysis of the proposals made, a european policy and strategy for the textile industry are finally taking shape. this is crucial because millions of citizens in these weeks are looking to us and asking us to act on these issues. we cannot ignore this discomfort, sometimes anger, about the perception of living in an age in which the phenomena of globalisation are ultimately governed by the united states, used by big countries like india and china and paid for, in different forms, by developing countries and europe. that is why the report makes it clear that textile policies and strategies do not mean welfare or protectionism, but rather full acceptance of market rules. however, it is demanded that the rules be respected by all and a way forward is indicated, namely the opening up of markets and competition as an opportunity, but at the same time also the strengthening of public action for the textile industry, for its modernisation and conversion, for innovation, research and training of workers. the report also calls on the commission to take a clear initiative on three points. firstly, a policy which ensures that all producing countries, and in particular china, respect the rules of free markets and thus reduces hidden state aid or subsidies to firms which distort competition. secondly, it is strongly urged that ethical, social and environmental clauses be recognized and enforced, so as to extend the scope of rights and improve working conditions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i would like to conclude by saying that we would have preferred greater clarity on other points, such as the inclusion of an active strategy for conscious consumption and more precise words on the timely promotion - and i am glad that the commissioner has said this - of a trademark of origin for all textile and clothing products, precisely to defend and relaunch one of the strengths of our production. however, at the moment everything depends on europe's policy and its ability to be heard and respected.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the action taken a few months ago by the european union, which has been hit hard by the unsustainable increase in imports of textiles and manufactured goods from china, has begun to bear some fruit with the memorandum of understanding. however, full liberalisation will not take place until 2008. the report by mr saifi, whom i really thank for the excellent work he has done, rightly insists that attention be kept to the good intentions of the chinese authorities and to keep a situation under control which has degenerated. the amendments to the final text were intended to highlight certain aspects of extreme importance for the european textile industry and for manufactured products in general. today there is a need to provide for appropriate sanctions, such as a ban on trade with the european union for a certain period of time for all those who have been found guilty of illegal imports of goods or of imports of counterfeit goods, and who have thus been complicit in a crime which must be assessed in its seriousness for its repercussions on the whole of european society, not only towards producers but above all towards consumers. we want the chinese authorities to be constantly monitored in their efforts to combat piracy, counterfeiting of trade marks and products, child exploitation and respect for workers' rights. another important problem is that the boom in textile exports from china has had a devastating effect on those developing countries which had their main and essential market of sale and export in the european union, which is now overloaded with chinese goods. the rebalancing of the sector in the coming years, marked by trade liberalization, will also have to take account of the needs of these countries. the commission has a responsibility to implement strategies which provide the necessary support for modernisation and which enable enterprises to tackle, in an informed manner and with clear prospects, a road which remains uphill, especially for small and mediumsized businesses. there can be no liberalization in the global market unless all the players respect the same rules and provisions which result from the agreements. the absence of rules or their non-observance prevents fair competition and, in fact, undermines the very concept of a free market. we are not just defending an important manufacturing sector in the union, but we are defending the right of consumers to the safety and quality of products, the right of workers to know the real prospects for the future and to see the social clauses applied in respect of human rights. the european union must tell the rest of the world forcefully that there can be no free market without fair competition and that for fair competition to exist, common rules must be respected.
mr president, i believe that the european parliament has a duty to respect the dead. there are a series of new explosions in london right now. this is an attack on the whole union, which cannot but be in touch with the presidency of the european semester. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that in our europe we shall never again have to witness a war against the sovereignty of a state. i hope that it will never happen again that a national economy is crushed with the complicity of the world bank, that usurious conditions are subsequently imposed and that public and state-owned enterprises are expropriated or miserably bankrupted. i hope that everyone still feels shame at one of the most despicable pages in european history, which has caused death, misery and instability in the balkans. that is why i abstained on the vote on the hypocritical resolution on srebrenica.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the admission of observers from bulgaria and romania to the european parliament. i believe that this is a very important step towards the day of full accession of these last two former communist states, which i believe should have been welcomed along with the other eight on 1 may 2004. in the italian national anthem there is the phrase "strengthen the cohort", which - i say this for the interpreters - means "unite us all together for the coming battles". the bad news we have just received from london makes me say that if all the european states remain united, we can defend ourselves much better against the insane attacks on democracy, such as are taking place in london at the moment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this debate, which unfortunately sees a rather empty chamber, is important because it concerns one of the most important sectors for european industry and therefore for the economy and for the citizens of europe. this is a sector which has been in serious crisis for years, accelerated today by the introduction of new trade agreements and the fall of many customs barriers, but which had already been suffering from serious difficulties for some time. it is an important sector in terms of turnover, number of employees, distribution in the various european countries and concentration, particularly in certain regions. consequently, a crisis in this sector leads, in some local situations, to a crisis of the economic and productive system. as we have said on other occasions, we too felt that the commission's intervention was a little late, since it had been requested for some time with the data at hand on what was happening to imports and their volume. however, despite this criticism, we welcome the action of commissioner mandelson, who we ask to monitor not only the agreement that has been made and its implementation, but also what is happening for other product categories. the question is not definitively settled and what has been done for some categories of products, which has somewhat cushioned the situation, may be necessary in the coming months for other categories of products. we must not waste the time we have gained and we must use the suggestions coming from the high-level group, from cooperation with business and social forces and from the ongoing dialogue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. i am referring in particular to employment, vocational training, credit support and all those innovations which can help to maintain a sector so important for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the textile and clothing sector is in serious doubt, since europe and the national states are subject to the dictatorship of the world trade organisation, enslaved by the free market and the domination of finance over the economy and politics, and thus acquiesce to globalisation, which has often been praised here too. as a result, they have given up defending national industry, production and work. the prospect of exporting many european goods and services is now almost lost, because of the inability of the so-called 'asian tigers' to compete with the developing countries. in addition, we are faced with unattainable competition on the internal markets, both because of the imports of products from the countries mentioned and because of the diabolical mechanism which allows european producers, who may also have benefited from public funding for their activities, to relocate production and import and market products in the countries of origin of the brands. in view of the terrible forecasts made by the trade associations and considering that in the absence of national sovereignty, imposed by this bureaucratic europe, no measures of initiative can be taken at the level of individual member states, it is necessary for the commission to activate policies and directives to support european companies and workers in the sector, to hinder the marketing in the countries of the european union of the products of the asian tigers, which are invading our markets. these products are manufactured without any guarantee for the consumer as regards the production processes and the materials used, often with a very high environmental impact and, moreover, without respect for social guarantees and the dignity of the worker, in complete contradiction with the provisions of the world labour organisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the future of textiles and clothing after 2005 certainly presents a comprehensive picture of the new economic and commercial realities at global level. textiles and clothing are a key sector for the european union and i therefore join mr saïfi in protesting at the absence of the relevant commissioners in this house. the sector, which is made up mainly of small and mediumsized enterprises, is now in great difficulty because of the chinese products, manufactured and sold at very low cost, which have invaded our market. imports from china have increased in a worrying manner, especially after the definitive removal of import quotas in january 2005. as a result, the european union's textile and clothing sector is under unprecedented pressure. more and more often our factories are closing and thousands of workers are out of work. in italy, 24,000 jobs were lost in 2004 and over 66,000 in the last three years. it should be stressed that this problem also affects all those developing countries which used to export their products to europe and which are now no longer able to withstand chinese competition. as a result, factories are closing not only in europe but also in sri lanka, pakistan, morocco and the entire mediterranean area. what can we do? the emergence of new aggressive global players on the world trade scene, in particular china and india, makes it necessary to revise the traditional objectives of community trade policy, which are based on the maximum opening of markets to promote the international projection of european industry. the current situation and its foreseeable developments require a more cautious approach aimed at protecting european industry against unbalanced and destructive competition. the following actions are urgently needed: the commission is therefore proposing that the council adopt without delay - as commissioner michel told us in this house this morning - the proposal for a regulation on the compulsory marking of the origin of products imported into the european union. to define targeted industrial policies to support sectors most exposed to international competition, including through the use of the structural funds; strengthening the trade defence instruments available to european companies, including anti-dumping measures - as was done for leather shoes - and anti-subsidy and safeguard clauses; make the fight against counterfeiting a european priority by supporting the initiatives of commissioner frattini; the commission's choices should be guided by bilateral agreements. if hong kong fails like cancun, there will be no time to revive multilateral negotiations. in conclusion, i would like to call for a review of the position on the new chemicals policy - the reach directive - in particular to ensure the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group considers it necessary to keep this item on the agenda and we had supported the same request as the group of the european people's party, which decided instead to change its mind, in our opinion for reasons not linked to europe but to another very important event in a member state. we do not think that we should fear a debate on turkey, but rather that such a debate is necessary and that the question of the protocol should be kept separate from the more general question which we shall be discussing at the second part-session in september. in this way we will be able to concentrate specifically on the cyprus issue, for which turkey certainly has responsibilities, but we must not forget that the republic of cyprus also has responsibilities. we think this is an important issue and it is equally important for parliament to be able to discuss, debate and decide in full freedom, with full autonomy from other institutions such as the council or the commission: we must take into account the fact, mr president, that we already know what the council will decide, since the informal council has already taken place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in the european people's party to the difference between the vote on an association agreement and the vote on a resolution on two specific cases of human rights violations in syria: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are therefore faced with a real emergency. as regards the situation in belarus, we are unanimous in our assessment and we all express our concern about it. i would like to remind you, however, that on 5 july this parliament discussed the commission's statement and on 10 march we adopted a resolution on more or less the same subjects. i therefore believe that parliament's authority does not lie in repeating resolutions, but rather in ensuring that its resolutions are followed up seriously. in conclusion, as regards the affair between the two members and the ngos, we ask for a letter from our president; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in belarus, and we are asking for a new debate, perhaps in a future plenary session, in order to put more pressure on both the council and the commission. that is why, in relation to this subject, we agree with the proposal to keep the situation in syria as an urgent matter.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my solidarity with the victims, but solidarity alone is not enough: we must make a solemn commitment to the victims to work with conviction, strength and determination to prevent these events. but let's start by asking why these events happen: i see this as a sure component of global warming, which has exacerbated extreme events, namely longer periods of drought, as commissioner dimas pointed out, and i thank him for his presence. i would also mention the increase in rainfall, another phenomenon that has no historical precedent. i remember that a two-degree increase in air temperature, from 20 to 22 degrees celsius, increases the water vapor content in the atmosphere by 12 percent and consequently the moles of energy in the atmosphere, which unfortunately we also had confirmed with hurricane katrina. we must join our efforts in organising civil defence relief, which is really a task for the union, not just for the member states. we must strengthen our commitment to post-disaster intervention, but above all, in the face of the worsening of extreme events, we must strengthen a comprehensive prevention plan, including the maintenance of waterways, since it is clear that when we go to the territory, we must carry out all the necessary interventions on the ground: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the water, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the water. this is the subject i would like to highlight and i have not yet heard an examination of its relevance. we must ensure that all this can be supported by its own resources and that it constitutes a great asset at the level of the union as a whole. this is a project which must increase our water safety, our geological safety and our fire safety, and make it possible to exploit the energy which can be collected when we go on the land. it is a systemic intervention which i ask the union to promote in support of the actions of the member states.
the debate on this item is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for the second reading by jonas sjöstedt on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending directive 2004/35/ec [16075/1/2004 - c6-0128/2005 - 2003/0107 ((cod)).
madam president, commissioner, exactly one hundred years ago, the president of the french council, president emile combe, said to the house: after having occupied the church, the vatican now wants to occupy the states. a hundred years ago! today, the state, vatican city, is the "organization", religious, in reality state, which you privileged in your dialogues, well, it is precisely this state through its last two representatives, the current one and its predecessor, who constantly insults the democratic parliaments, democracy itself, by claiming that those who legislate as the civil world is doing in defense of the fundamental rights of life, those, you, we, are the heirs of nazism. the silence with which you greet these interlocutors is infamous. i say frankly: if this is europe, then it is still vatican europe and not the europe of those who believe in freedom and religion.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to add just two comments to what mr de veyrac said, who presented his report brilliantly in committee, and i hope we will adopt it as soon as possible. before this august, we were probably all satisfied with the state of aviation safety in the world and the objective ability of the european union to be at the forefront of this field: stricter rules than those imposed by icao at international level; the complete transfer of responsibility for standardisation and aircraft inspection to the european agency; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. however, the air accidents in august 2005 have forced us to act faster and with greater ambition. this is a pressing request, and one that cannot be ignored, given the constantly increasing number of victims: and this disastrous august is not yet over, given the serious accident that happened today in indonesia. in view of all this, i think it is necessary to recognize that the area of aviation safety, but not only it, is an absolute priority. this is an objective which must be pursued without too much remorse for national competences - which no longer have any meaning - and overcoming the modest slowness in defining objectives and procedures, which are equally meaningless. we are in a situation where air traffic is growing rapidly and we are responding to it with the available supply, using any type of aircraft, but the dangers are becoming more and more obvious. we must do it quickly and do it a lot. i would say that if there is one area of competence for the union in this debate on its future, and it is clearly a community competence, it is security. we must move in this direction so that the member states also understand that the sooner they transfer powers to the union in this field, the better it is for everyone, the better we can do. what do we do now? we can implement the commission's specific proposal to inform passengers of the names of the aircraft actually used by providing them with additional information. finally, if this report succeeds in ensuring that the same control criteria apply to all, the same safety standards apply to all, a blacklist of those who do not meet them is the same for all and is applied throughout the union with objective and transparent criteria for entry and exit from the union, then we will have transformed what was an instrument of consumer aid into a real instrument of action on safety. we know that's not enough. at the same time, the commission must explain the overall strategy it intends to pursue. i am convinced that parliament, and i hope the council, will want to follow it to ensure that we can be sure as soon as possible that we are responding to the european citizens as they expect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, safety is an integral part of the right to mobility which we are called upon to guarantee. that is why we have always opposed the liberal policies which in recent years have reduced transport more and more to a commodity. the effects of these policies on security and on the right to mobility itself must be severely pointed out and in our view must be considered negative and worrying. changing course means putting rights at the centre of the strategy, not just profits. we need rules, controls and investment. the role of transport workers is crucial and can be decisive in ensuring that appropriate standards are met. good trade union relations are essential not only for the respect of workers' rights but also for the protection of all citizens. i would like to make a serious point in this connection. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the air transport sector. this is all the more serious in the case of a company like alitalia, which is of strategic importance to us and which we want to relaunch. there is a basic rule to be stated: only a 'good' job produces a 'good' and safe transport.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with pleasure to your proposals on the establishment of a european blacklist and i support them, as do the discussions in the committee on transport and tourism on mrs de veyrac's proposal. i think it is essential to define control standards and we must act strongly on this point. i would like to add, commissioner, without repeating what has already been said by other members, that i hope that this will be seen in the context of a greater strategic perspective, so that europe, including the issue of aviation safety, can play a global role in the world. analysis of accident rates in different regions of the world shows, not by chance, that - although much remains to be done - north america, europe, japan and australia have the best performance, while africa, latin america and the caribbean have the worst. it is certainly a problem of air carriers, but also and above all of air bases, since the performance of air carriers depends on the attitude of the management, the competent aviation authority, towards safety. in other words, a carrier from the persian gulf or asia, operating in a relatively rich user base, devotes more resources to the safety of its airline. in view of this, i believe that europe must be able to defend its airlines against increasingly ruthless competition, by focusing competition on raising safety levels rather than lowering them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in recent months, a media whirlwind has spread ridiculous fairy tales through half-truths and untruths. the only remaining elements of the so-called minimum requirements for the protection of the safety and health of workers against the risks arising from physical agents (optical radiation) as the title has been the following: in its regulatory frenzy, brussels even wants to ban sunlight, waitresses would have to give up their cleavage and even footballers would no longer be allowed to wear shorts in the future. i do not think it is necessary to point out here that this directive is concerned exclusively with prevention, with protective measures at work and with better prevention of skin cancer also as an occupational disease . we would not need any regulations or regulations at all if there were still, for example, old dress codes for the various occupations, for example, the fact that someone working in the sun wears a hat and protective clothing. nor would we need them if the sun's uv rays were not becoming more dangerous as the ozone layer is depleted. unfortunately, it has been shown that skin cancer has increased in recent years - as some have already pointed out - particularly among construction and agricultural workers, i.e. among occupations which are not among the most privileged. the question now is whether we want to protect these workers better against optical radiation, as well as against noise, vibration and electromagnetic radiation, in all member states, and whether we want to guarantee that skin cancer is recognised as an occupational disease in all eu countries. we must not delegate our own responsibilities to the member states. they are then responsible for implementation. health is a great asset for every individual. health also has an economic dimension. we should therefore agree to the minimum rules proposed by the council - they are minimum rules! - and reject the now completely watered-down articles 4 and 5. we greens share the social democrats' position in principle and call for minimum standards for good occupational safety in all eu countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done, and all the groups and colleagues in the committee who, with the amendments they have tabled, have helped to improve an initiative which we very much welcome. in my view, the main merit of the progress programme in an effort to simplify and rationalize is to boost commitment to the crucial aspects of achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy by providing adequate, albeit partial, instruments. when we talk about investing in factors such as human resources, training, employment services, the fight for employment, to promote decisive qualitative and quantitative levels of employment and at the same time an agenda for social cohesion; we are imagining objectives which cannot be seen merely as an addendum to a lisbon strategy which is unbalanced on the economic side, but which are an integral part of it. for these reasons, i believe it was essential to propose and envisage a strengthening of the financial framework, but we also insist very strongly on the success of this proposal, including the part concerning an increase in the thresholds for cofinancing, which are essential to promote a decisive and qualifying aspect of the programme: the enhancement of the partnership. without a leading and decisive involvement of the social dimension in the design and implementation, a single institutional commitment would probably fail to achieve its objectives. other issues have already been raised by other colleagues, so i shall only dwell on a few points which in my view are decisive for the success of an option which remains decisive in relaunching european strategies for development and for the competitiveness of the system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the weber report contains many innovative and important aspects, including the full recognition that the functioning of democracy in every country is radically influenced by media systems and that therefore a system of democratic controls is indispensable to ensure that the rights of citizens are not violated by situations of state or private monopoly. not only is it essential that everyone is properly informed, but everyone must be able to participate in the management of communication. i would like to stress, however, that the problems of information and communication go far beyond the debate on competition and pluralism. a public sector is not enough to ensure public control of information management; it is not enough that public television is subject to the government and the parties as it is in italy and as it seems to be threateningly in slovenia; the private sector can also provide nothing if all commercial television is in the hands of a few and if advertising imposes choices and content for both entertainment and information. i believe that europe and its parliament must take a great step forward in order to understand such problems. the commission must therefore be aware that the debate is wider than the logic of the market. television decides the cultural, intellectual and moral content of each country and television decides the level of democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this fairly balanced report focuses on a number of problems and issues which are widely shared by those who, like us who are for autonomy and for a people's europe, see the danger, which is plain to all, of a globalisation which is having negative effects also and above all at the cultural level. this is confirmed by the kind of messages and values, or rather, by the kind of devaluations, conveyed through the production and dissemination systems of the television message, which crush our production and stifle the free expression of independent producers. i therefore welcome the fact that the directive is being revised in such a way that producers and small and mediumsized enterprises, who are certainly not the recipients of the aid in question, can be supported by limiting and circumscribing the influence of such messages. however, this is not the end of the criticism of this cultural "mix" which is imposed through the system of the globalization of audiovisual messages. that is the point, the european identity is threatened by the transmission of such messages. and that is where we must confront and have the courage to call things by their right names, because we are really witnessing the impoverishment of everything that is important in european culture. the only point to be made is that it is mentioned in paragraph 38: the censorship of messages from networks outside europe which incite hatred towards our culture, towards the west, as was recently the case with the lebanese al manar network which transmitted messages against our civilization from sources close to hezbollah via a european satellite.
in writing. it should be stressed that the textile sector is the tip of the iceberg: the problem of chinese products invading the european market affects all sectors, from footwear to food. appropriate countermeasures are needed. i am talking about the introduction of a compulsory mark of origin from outside the eu which is also applied to raw materials. i am also referring to the fight against counterfeit products, which damage quality production and the wealth of technical and craft know-how in the sector. in addition, awareness campaigns for 'conscious consumption' should be carried out to help the european consumer to choose products through legible and transparent labels. finally, we must not forget that behind every cheap chinese product there are thousands of lost jobs in europe and in china, the denial of human rights, the death penalty, repression and child exploitation. in conclusion, will the lisbon strategy for research and innovation finance arrive in time? and are we sure that we will not, as the united states does, impose tariffs to protect our products and our workers when there is a real trade aggression, as in the case of the abnormal increase in chinese exports?
the agenda includes the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for the financial year 2006.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and privilege for me to be able to present today, on behalf of the presidency of the council, the draft budget of the european communities for the year 2006, as established by the council on 15 july 2005. i should like to begin by saying to members that we, in the united kingdom, have been very grateful and very touched by the messages of support and solidarity in the aftermath of the dreadful terrorist attacks in london. i believe we would all, on an occasion such as this, like to reiterate our determination, as the european union, to tackle on an international level the scourge of modern terrorism as one of the greatest threats facing the world. i believe that the european union has a major role to play in ensuring that we tackle head-on the menace of international terrorism. once again, i thank you very much for the expressions of support and solidarity in relation to those attacks. with regard to the budget, i should like to note the historical importance of the 2006 budgetary procedure. as the last procedure under the current financial perspective, it has a special role in bridging past priorities and future objectives. of course it also needs to provide a measure of continuity and the basis for coherence between two financial perspectives, but it also must offer the prospect of reform and renewal so that future budgets can genuinely meet the needs and expectations of european citizens in the 21st century. that gives the two arms of the budgetary authority – parliament and the council – a very special responsibility. we will need to build on the spirit of cooperation that has developed between us to deliver in 2006 a budget that offers a shared vision for a better future. already, in the short period of time that i have been fulfilling these responsibilities, i value the relationship that i have been able to build with the chairman, rapporteur and members of the committee on budgets, and with the commissioner. whilst it is difficult at this stage of this sort of process realistically to reach any level of agreement, the atmosphere, environment and relationships that are being built are healthy and, hopefully, lay the foundations for a process that will lead to a mutually satisfactory conclusion. to give to a wider audience today an example of the benefits of that cooperation, during the conciliation meeting between the budget council and a delegation from the european parliament on 15 july, we were able to agree two very urgent matters: first, a strategy for financing a significant ec contribution to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of tsunami-affected countries, and secondly, the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in favour of slovakia, to help with the effects of a severe wind storm. those are practical, tangible and highly visible actions, important to all of the people that we represent, as well as to the victims of the tsunami. in addition, we were able to reach an agreement on the revision of the financial perspective ceilings for 2006, to permit modulation in agriculture. today i acknowledge that, on the question of the tsunami, there remains a eur 13 million gap but, in the spirit of the cooperation and progress we were able to make back in july, i am still optimistic that we should be able to close that gap in a relatively short period of time. this was a very promising beginning to our relationship. it gives me confidence that, if we retain a constructive and permanent dialogue, and with the assistance of the commissioner, we will be able to find an appropriate agreement on a balanced and satisfactory budget for 2006 by the end of this budgetary procedure. before presenting in some detail the draft budget established by the council on 15 july 2005, i would like to take this opportunity to recall the main principles which have guided our proposals. they are fully in line with the council's budget guidelines for 2006 adopted in march of this year. i think it is very important that we are clear about the priorities and principles which lead and guide the financial decisions. that is as relevant in the context of 2006 as it is in any debate about future funding in terms of the next financial perspective. it is important that we are absolutely clear about the principles, the policies and the challenges which lie ahead for the european union. first of all, the draft budget established by the council shows due regard for the current interinstitutional agreement of 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. this is a point which is worth repeating. secondly, council gave particular attention to complying with the annual expenditure ceiling set by the current financial perspective and to leaving adequate margins below the ceilings – where possible – so that there is some room to finance unforeseen events during 2006. thirdly, regarding appropriations for payments, the council has remained committed to a limited and controlled growth consistent with sound and rigorous financial management. the draft budget takes due account of the implementation rates in previous years and the expected implementation rates in the future. it also acknowledges fully the dramatic and welcome improvements in the implementation that we have seen in recent times. securing the right level of payment appropriations for the ec budget is especially important, and i am sure that all members will be aware that national budgets are so tightly constrained. all public spending must be justified and prioritised to ensure continued public confidence and public support. in setting the draft budget, council took an overall approach which kept to those fundamental principles but which also aimed to provide adequate and realistic funding for the european union's various budget priorities. for example, recalling the need for budget discipline, the council increased the margins for commitments under heading 3: internal policies, and heading 5: administration, and created a margin under heading 4: external actions, but without the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. we believe that this is entirely in keeping with article 12 of our interinstitutional agreement. by carefully targeting amendments, the draft budget was achieved in a way which continues to meet genuine priority needs. the council also took a similarly carefully-targeted approach to payment appropriations across the budget affecting both compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. while limiting the overall increase of payment appropriations, the draft budget still allows an increase of around 12% for research in light of the priority accorded to objectives set by the lisbon strategy and an increase of 9.8% for structural funds, reflecting improved implementation rates. sometimes, when people refer to the word 'cuts', they are not talking about cuts; they are talking about a different level of significant growth in budget headings, and yet sometimes the council has been accused of proposing cuts. we are not proposing cuts in the vast majority of budget headings; we are talking about sustained and stable growth, but not necessarily to the level that others consider to be the best way forward. i now want to move on to setting out the draft budget for 2006 in more detail. the 2006 draft budget establishes commitment appropriations at eur 120.8 billion, an increase of 3.7% over the 2005 budget, and it establishes payment appropriations at eur 111.4 million, 4.9% more than the 2005 budget, and payments correspond to 1.01% of community gni. hopefully, you will have all received a comprehensive explanatory memorandum on the draft budget. i do not intend to bore you now with a line-by-line explanation – unless you really want me to, and i suspect you do not. however, i should draw your attention to the key points affecting the various budget headings of the financial perspective. i will begin with heading 1, concerning agricultural expenditure. let me stress my appreciation for the agreement that we reached to adjust the financial perspective ceiling for 2006. that will allow a transfer of eur 655 million from market expenditure in subheading 1a to rural development in subheading 1b. regarding appropriations, the council has made an across-the-board reduction in commitments and payments of eur 150 million, affecting budget lines in subheading 1a greater than eur 50 million. that reduction is designed to take account of under-implementation in recent years. however, the council's position will be reviewed – and this is an important point – in the light of updated forecasts due in the autumn amending letter to the pdb. i must stress that this modest reduction is in line with the council's overall approach of controlled growth of payment appropriations, which should apply to both compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. the council has accepted in full the amount proposed by the commission for subheading 1b, where it believes the implementation is more effective. turning to heading 2, on structural operations, the council has adopted the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission consistent with the european council's conclusions of march 1999 in berlin and of december 2002 in copenhagen. payment appropriations have been reduced across the board by a total of eur 150 million, which reflects the council's view of the expected implementation rate and is based on past evidence of implementation shortfalls, taking full account of the significant and welcome improvements achieved recently. the reduction is applied to both structural funds and to community initiatives. in heading 3, on internal policies, the council accepted the amounts proposed in commitments for multiannual programmes adopted under the codecision procedure, as agreed following enlargement, as well as the specific amounts relating to copenhagen commitments. however, the council limited commitment appropriations for some budget lines that are not based on multiannual programmes such as those based on commission prerogatives, pilot projects and preparatory actions. those decisions followed the council's examinations of activity statements, which are fast becoming a very important analytical tool. in addition, the council limited the increase of appropriation for the subsidies of certain decentralised agencies. it is right that established agencies should face the same budgetary rigour that we expect of central institutions and, indeed, of our own domestic organisations. however, it is also fair to allow more significant increases for new and developing agencies. the draft budget seeks to make that distinction. in considering the level of payment appropriations for heading 3, council took full account of the need to increase payments, especially for the important research lines that will help to underpin the very important – the central – lisbon reform agenda. however, the council could not ignore the past implementation record for this heading. we suggest there is limited capacity to absorb increases effectively and efficiently. in this environment, the council believes that it would be irresponsible to budget the huge increases proposed in the pdb of nearly 12% across that particular heading. the council has reduced the overall increase to a more manageable and realistic 5%. but, very importantly, we should be aware that the draft budget still permits a very substantial increase – and i want to reiterate this – of nearly 12% for research lines, which reflects the priority accorded to this very important policy area. the council has provided adequate funding for heading 3 and established a sensible margin of eur 210 million under the ceiling. i am sure that parliament will want to keep the same budget discipline principles in mind when considering priorities for this heading. i want to move now from heading 3 to heading 4: external actions. the council was concerned to respect the ceilings of the financial perspective. consistent with the interinstitutional agreement, the council took the view that all possibilities for re-allocation must be exhausted prior to a proposal to deploy the flexibility instrument. you will not be surprised to hear that the council did not share the commission's view that re-allocation had been exhausted in the pdb. the council fully supported the community pledges and consequential budget proposals for the reconstruction needs in tsunami-affected countries and in iraq, and it respected the reference amounts for codecided programmes. it also accepted the amount for cfsp, as proposed in the pdb. however, the council took the view that there was still scope to bring total expenditure within the budget ceiling and achieved this by a very modest across-the-board reduction in commitments to the remaining chapters, including, for example, for international fisheries agreements. a slightly smaller reduction was applied to afghanistan, which still allows the community to meet its multiannual pledge for reconstruction assistance. after these adjustments, the margin available under heading 4 is eur 41.65 million, which should allow the financing of the consequences of the forthcoming sugar reforms along the lines we expect the commission to propose. again, we share a common belief that it is absolutely essential to make a success of sugar reform. i hope that we will be able to reach agreement on the final amount for the cfsp budget and the international fisheries agreements in the course of the second reading of the budget for 2006, as foreseen in the interinstitutional agreement. you can rest assured that we, the presidency, will make every effort to provide the appropriate information about cfsp to the european parliament on time and in an appropriate form. i am sure you would agree that much progress has been made in recent times in relation to that particular issue. moving on now to heading 5, on administrative expenditure, the draft budget aims to respect the ceiling of the financial perspective once again and set an adequate margin for unforeseen events. with this in mind, the council established a margin of eur 130 million, to be achieved through savings in operating costs from interinstitutional cooperation and from budget reductions, to reflect the current vacancy rate for the various institutions. the council's approach was objective and pragmatic, although we can never expect any institution to be entirely satisfied inevitably by the outcome of our analysis. the council accepted the vast majority of the new posts requested by the institutions for enlargement, pre-enlargement and new tasks. however, it is true that we applied a modest reduction to take account of the significant delay in recruitment for posts granted in previous years. the council expressed deep concern about recruitment delays and about the need – the centrality – for there to be geographical balance following enlargement. i know that parliament shares these concerns. it is regrettable that, due to time constraints, we could not agree a jointly-worded statement on this issue on 15 july, but i have every reason to believe that we can still reach such an agreement which would make it absolutely clear that parliament and the council are as one in terms of recruitment and retention, of human resource policies. we have recently received a paper from the commissioner, which we will be considering over the next few weeks, to inform our position on the question of administration and more specifically of posts. moving on now to heading 7, the pre-accession strategy, the council accepted the commitment appropriations proposed by the commission. however we limited the increase for payment appropriations for some budget lines, again taking into account past implementation rates. finally, as regards heading 8, on compensations, the council accepted the full amounts proposed by the commission in the pdb, which will help ensure that the conclusions of the copenhagen european council as regards new member states are properly fulfilled. we believe that this draft budget adequately responds to the european union's various priorities, making the finances available, but it also respects the important principle of budgetary discipline and sound management of which we – the council and parliament – are joint custodians. we meet today in an environment where it is more important than ever that we rebuild, that we strengthen the relationship between the european union, its institutions and the people of europe. central to that relationship is the credibility of the way we do our business. key to that credibility is the way that we manage our finances, to demonstrate that we are efficient, that we are prudent, but also that we jointly spend money in a way that adds value to the everyday quality of life of the people who live in the european union. we have to close the gap between rhetoric and reality, because one of our great challenges – those of us who believe passionately in the importance of the european union – is that often people do not see the work that is done in parliament, the commission, the council as making any difference or being relevant to their everyday concerns about their quality of life and standard of living. therefore, it is very important, in the context not only of 2006 but also of the debate on the financial perspective for the years ahead, that we constantly have in mind the importance of linking our actions, our words and the decisions that we make with the centrality of making sure that we rebuild and strengthen public confidence and support in the whole function, the work and vision which underpins the european union. a very good place to start would be to reach in a mature way a consensual agreement on the 2006 budget. we have major challenges ahead, but we can bridge the gap on that issue – there are significant gaps in some of the budget headings, as we will hear in the debate this afternoon, and very strong differences of opinion about the best way forward. however, i believe that in the next few weeks we should be seeking to bridge those gaps. we should be seeking to achieve some level of consensus, which will inevitably require compromise. if we can do that, it will be a very important building block in terms of the challenges which lie ahead, in terms of the necessary reforms to the way that we budget and make decisions about the future. many of you will have been present when the prime minister of the united kingdom made his speech to parliament very early on in the presidency. i think there was general agreement among everybody present – whatever their political ideology, whatever their views – as he outlined the reform agenda and his determination that we achieve that in partnership, that his was a fair analysis of where europe is now and that now is the time to grasp the nettle and deal with some of the fundamental issues about the future nature of the european union and its relationship with its citizens. the 2006 budget may – in the context of that big-picture debate – feel like a relatively small issue. however, if we can reach some level of agreement, if we can show that we can achieve compromise in the interests of continuing progress in these areas, that will go down very well. it will be very well received by those who closely observe the way that we do our business. i am pleased, mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, to close my remarks and to commend the draft budget to the european parliament this afternoon.
i would like to thank mr lewis on behalf of all the members who, on behalf of the council, presented the draft general budget for 2006.
the agenda includes the general debate on the general budget of the european union for 2006.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the sympathy with which we look at the british presidency does not prevent us from expressing our disappointment at the budget proposal which has been presented to us. as president lewandowski has said, we expressed our disappointment very firmly and very sincerely in the conciliation committee in july. we therefore reiterate today that - while we appreciate the speech of minister lewis, with his openness and his refinement - all this must be translated into concrete choices. unfortunately, there is a striking contradiction between the passionate words of president blair in this house and the choices made by the council on the budget. the budget cuts - or, if you prefer, your budget forecasts - in the agricultural sector and in the structural funds, although more modest than last year, confirm the tendency towards unjustified austerity. if confirmed, they would open the way to corrections in progress, accentuating the gap between expectations, supported by a good capacity for implementing resources, and the inadequacy of the resources themselves. the concerns about internal and external policies have been transformed into alarm: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is the consistency of the figures: - 21 million to enterprises; - 33 million for transport; - 279 million for research; 131 million less for information; less 20 million for education and culture; 8 million less for freedom, security and justice. there is a discrepancy between the declarations in favour of growth, employment and youth measures on the one hand and the reduction in the amounts of the budget lines essential to achieving these objectives on the other. i would like to ask you, mr minister, what this all means. does this mean that these policies are essential but that they must be implemented only by the national states? i have this feeling; if it is correct, we would be in clear contradiction because these policies must also be implemented by the european union, since they have european added value. i think that is the underlying political issue, which we must first clarify and then proceed accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. how is this possible? what about the other dozens of measures which are planned, and i repeat, among the external actions? how can we achieve this with a limited budget and without even using the flexibility instrument? i have the impression, and i say this with a proverb, that your demand is very much like that of a husband who wants to have a full barrel and his wife drunk. we are concerned and disappointed, but we are still asking for further reflection from you and we expect, madam commissioner, more determined pressure from the european commission. the idea of a shock is growing in this parliament, among us, of an act which is not impulsive but deliberate, which opens the eyes and calls everyone to their duties. there are no encouraging signs about the financial outlook, in fact i have to say that there are none at all. this obviously feeds our concern and widens the scepticism among the citizens; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the british presidency has decided to give up the financial perspective without even trying? we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in this. but the time of choice spares no one: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we in parliament, and we hope that president blair and the british presidency will do the same, cannot stand by and watch europe's decline.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. as a member of the committee on development, i went with the chairman, mr luisa morgantini, the rapporteur, mr deva, and other members to the areas affected by the tsunami, particularly the banda aceh region in indonesia. the scale of the damage is truly impressive: whole communities have been destroyed and wiped out by the fury of nature. however, despite the trauma of the loss of material and emotional assets, the local population is now pulling together and re-setting their future. europe, as it was its duty, did not shrink from its obligations of solidarity. not only did the institutions move quickly, but many, many ordinary citizens, with their input, felt that it was necessary to help. in this overall, just and appropriate effort, the rapporteur's proposal for €100 million for reconstruction and rehabilitation in 2005 should be supported, in addition to the €123 million already provided for humanitarian aid and the commitment in 2006 and 2007 to disburse the remaining €250 million. however, as representatives of the european people, we also have a responsibility to work with the relevant authorities, particularly in indonesia, the maldives and sri lanka, to ensure that aid reaches the people quickly and that the necessary works and interventions are carried out to ensure an effective, visible and tangible improvement in the living conditions of these people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a recommendation is undoubtedly a step forward in the protection of minors and human dignity, in particular in making the internet safer for children, and also in guaranteeing the right of reply in relation to erroneous information disseminated by any media. it is a pity that the legal basis chosen for this recommendation is article 157 of the treaty, which is intended to ensure the competitiveness of european industry, rather than, more appropriately, article 153 on the protection of consumers' interests. it is also a pity that the legal form chosen was the recommendation, which, as is well known, has no legally binding binding force. nevertheless, it is of great importance that this report should aim at strengthening the protection of children through media education programmes, also aimed at adults, parents, teachers and trainers, precisely to teach children the correct use of the media, especially the internet. it is also extremely important to combat the dangers of child pornography, especially on the internet, by means of advertising campaigns to provide information and to prevent such abuse. the rapporteur also said that the internet is a formidable tool for communicating with the world, but it must be secure and reliable. it is therefore important that the commission should agree to establish a european hotline which can provide information on existing filtering systems and also simplify the submission of complaints to the competent authorities and the reporting of dangerous sites. in addition, it could be useful to promote the adoption of a provider quality label, which makes it possible to ascertain whether a provider adheres to a code of conduct or not. finally, it would also be important to be able to create filters which prevent the source from passing on information which is child pornographic and which is offensive to human dignity. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members who have contributed to the drafting of this text.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs de sarnez on her effective and innovative approach to a subject with very sensitive implications. the widespread use of the internet has recently drawn the attention of the institutions to the need to safeguard the rights of minors, who must be protected in particular as they are among the largest possible users of the network. i am well aware of how difficult it is to find the right balance between two needs: the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a reference to the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the provision of services. for this reason, the fight against the circulation of content which undermines the human dignity and the civic and cultural development of minors is of fundamental importance. on the other hand, it is also essential not to stop - rather to increase - the development process of the sector by promoting new audiovisual media and information services, but in a climate of serenity and confidence. in fact, unless effective tools to protect the public interest are rapidly identified and deployed, these new media and services risk not being able to fulfil their full potential from a social, cultural and economic point of view. i agree with the rapporteur that to ensure the protection of minors in the use of new information technologies, certain actions are necessary, carried out jointly by three levels of responsibility: the european union is a global player in the world of politics, industry, education and parenting. i therefore support the proposals you have made, in particular those aimed at carrying out information campaigns among citizens to raise public awareness of the dangers of improper use of the internet, the promotion of so-called training of trainers, through initiatives specifically aimed at teachers and educators on the risks of the internet for children, and the distribution of information kits to students and parents. finally, i ask the european commission to promote the establishment of a single green number throughout the union for the collection of information and complaints about harmful websites. this could easily lead to the compilation of a list of such web domains, including for the purpose of possible legal action against the authors. this would also make it possible to provide member states which currently lack such a service with such useful data and news, which is well placed in the strategy for the protection of children.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european child and paediatric population needs and has the right to receive ad hoc medicines, that is, medicines specifically designed and prepared for this type of recipient. in this respect, we are all aware that the present situation in europe reveals a very low level of civilization. this regulation is therefore positive, important and urgent. it is based on a number of qualifying points, which i shall mention shortly. the establishment of the paediatric committee is of great importance, as is its composition, which must be of a high standard, composed of authoritative and independent persons, given the extremely delicate tasks which will be entrusted to it. they will have to evaluate, approve and evaluate paediatric investigation plans. the paediatric committee will have to ensure that a database is created, a network of knowledge, so that duplication of these experiments can - and must - be avoided and that we are also able to deal with the ethical and human aspects that an experiment on such a fragile population as that of sick children and their families requires. another qualifying factor is the incentive/liability, incentive/prescription mechanism. the committee on industry, research and energy, of which i am the rapporteur, has, as is well known, approved a proposal for a proportional system. i would therefore ask mrs grossetête and the other members who are in favour of different solutions not to demonize our proposal, but to try to understand that each of us, representing no one but ourselves and our own ideas, has put forward what we consider to be the most appropriate solution to promote paediatric medicines and therefore the health of children. a proportionate solution, which could last longer than six months, could also help those drugs, which are very expensive because of the research they involve and have a limited market, to have a longer extension. in any case, whatever the position of this parliament, i ask the commissioner to take this proposal and give a favourable opinion so that an evaluation mechanism is set up which, after a certain period, will enable us to see which is the best proposal in the light of the facts. this is the most important thing because our children, the children of europe, have the right to have their needs and their needs met.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this regulation is an important step forward: the majority of european children are still taking medicines whose efficacy and safety are not documented in children and adolescents, who are therefore exposed to greater risks than adults. however, the implementation of the regulation will depend on the activities and responsibilities of the scientific committee which, while working within the emea, will have to ensure its autonomy from the pharmaceutical industry in the interests of the paediatric population. the proposals for monitoring by this committee should be public, so that all citizens can know and be informed about what is being done to improve their health. the activation of the register of clinical and pharmacological trials involving children and the creation of a european paediatric form to be updated periodically will be discriminatory. in addition, the establishment of the mice programme, provided for in the regulation, will require explicit forms of financing in interaction with the community framework programmes. the six-month extension of the patent is another gift to the multinational pharmaceutical companies, in total disregard for the health of children and contrary to the very objectives of this regulation. the pharmaceutical industry is the industry which has paid the highest dividends to its shareholders in recent years. it certainly does not need any more profits!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that terrorism is an enemy of humanity and we are concerned that after the london attacks the issue has returned to the agenda of this parliament, not least because in june it had spoken on numerous reports and also on the subject of data protection. the fight against terrorism cannot be combined, as minister clarke has done today, with the fight against illegal immigration and asylum policies. parallelism is misleading and dangerous even on a pedagogical level: does anyone seriously think that terrorists arrive in europe on board boats of fortune? in my view, victims cannot be turned into executioners. migrants are the weak link in a system that feeds terrorism, they are certainly not the cause of terrorism. moreover, if the quality of tragedies is also measured by the number of deaths, then terrorism cannot even be considered the priority for the european union: the real tragedy of europe is the number of immigrants who, because of our laws and our refusal of entry, are drowning in the mediterranean sea. the number of dead buried in the mediterranean sea is a thousand times greater than the number of dead caused by terrorist attacks! there is a serious omission in this debate: mr clarke and mr frattini are representatives of the two european countries which have contributed most to the war and military occupation of iraq. you're wrong if you don't see the connection between war and terrorism. it is a misunderstanding to fail to see that war and terrorism feed on each other, just as islamophobia and islamic fundamentalism feed on each other. this phenomenon is not only observed in iraq, according to a study recently published by a un agency, in the last three years, that is, since the military occupation, opium production in afghanistan has grown exponentially: drugs are the primary source of funding for terrorist organizations. terrorism cannot be defeated by war or by security obsession, and it is unacceptable to propose an orwellian system of control of european citizens. data protection is a way of putting security above freedom and justice. a leading lawyer like stefano rodotà says that data protection is the torture of the third millennium: both are designed to extract information. i fully agree with that analysis and with a similar statement, and we have not yet been shown that data protection helps to defeat terrorism, nor do i think that the two examples which were put to us in the committee on civil liberties by the british presidency are sufficient. finally, i believe that some initiatives must be agreed by the european citizens and that it will not be easy to build consensus on this hypothesis, nor do i think it is useful to get out of the european union's crisis with this security twist. the european union will only succeed in becoming a strong political entity with institutional credibility if there is a popular consensus on the model of society, and i believe that this is the lesson we learn from the french and dutch referendums.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that terrorism is not fought with war, but it is also not fought with philosophizing, as is being done by many in this debate, on rights, on guarantees: we all know the enemy is among us. it is quite useless, and even specious, to come and tell us, as has been done by some authoritative figure who visits so-called moderate islamic states and finds good people who do not want war, do not want terrorism. well, i suggest that he does a little bit of research, for example, on another level, on another issue, but related to culture, to the cultural difference that exists and is important: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to do so. i know that this lady has turned to president borrell to assert her right, and her sensitivity will certainly ensure that the voice of this parliament reaches that regime. i was saying that the danger is within us and that we should therefore welcome the preventive measures that commissioner frattini has very appropriately spoken of. this must be done, prevented, of course, and taken where there is danger, not among the unfortunates who arrive in lampedusa on boats, they are certainly not the danger, but against those who recruit them, organize them, not in all, but in many mosques, not in all, but in many prayer centers. it is good to see that the italian government is doing very well in this respect, taking timely action against those who sow hatred, who sow tension, who create and multiply that culture soup. here we continue to philosophize about data collection and so on, we always arrive late compared to the islamic networks that are multiplying, little research is done. minister clarke did not even mention the issue of terrorist financing, but fortunately there are those who are more thorough on this subject, as we have heard. the question is very important, today the newspapers write that the terrorist organizations in france, and it is thanks to the french intelligence to have denounced it, have even taken over a huge sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the clothing industry and the marketing of sportswear for young people for commercial purposes. the danger is among us, in our homes and in our european cities, and we must take serious and timely action there, without giving in to the kindness of which we have heard too many words in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe can and must react firmly and take all the necessary measures to give effective answers against terrorist crime, which is the new cancer of our society. we therefore share the measures contained in the revised action plan against terrorism. all efforts and measures to establish and strengthen eurojust and europol, the european arrest warrant, cooperation and the exchange of information, the monitoring and traceability of banking transactions, the expansion of video cameras and telephone and electronic interception, and the freezing of assets belonging to suspected terrorists must be supported. we are aware that this may risk restricting the exercise of certain fundamental rights, such as privacy, but it is equally right, and at this time of priority, to defend the rights of the community as a whole, which are equally fundamental and even more urgent. we are in an objective emergency situation, whether we like it or not, and therefore we must also have the strength and courage to support measures which, in order to protect a higher collective good such as the safety of citizens, may exceptionally and temporarily, but always with the authorization of the competent judicial authority, also restrict individual rights. zero tolerance for terrorism does not mean that we do not respect the fundamental principles of our legal system, but that we always act in full compliance with the law. we therefore strongly condemn the abductions of egyptian citizens in milan on 16 february 2003 and the other abductions of citizens of the sovereign territories of member states, carried out by the cia. we also regret the so-called licences to kill which are too often given to police officers on the basis of suspicion and are not backed up by objective self-defence requirements, as has unfortunately recently happened in one european country. in conclusion, yes to the law on terrorism, yes to the resolute and firm fight against terrorism, but always in the name of and in accordance with the law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr clarke, this parliament cannot but share the urgency of the response to terrorism and also believes that it must go hand in hand with this response by being rigorous in the protection of human rights. when we talk about human rights, we are talking about rigor, about the pragmatism of human rights, not about a merely abstract and virtual debate. if we agree to abandon this old, established standard of protection of human rights, of attention to these fundamental rights, we will have given the terrorists their first resounding victory, we will have shown that our values, values on which we say we found so-called western civilization, are in fact fragile, precarious, absolutely partial values. let me ask you a few questions, mr minister, which are also inspired by some of the omissions we have noted in your speech. commissioner frattini rightly speaks of prevention, that is to say, of looking for the causes. this parliament would like to know whether it is possible to have an answer to a simple and sober question: has war been or not been one of the causes that have determined the spread of terrorism on this planet? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. it is not an abstract or philosophical question, there is a judicial inquiry under way in several countries, we were also talking about it yesterday, mr minister, in sweden, germany and italy, concerning the responsibility of american secret services and the complicity of european secret services in the abduction of certain european and non-community citizens, who are taken to egypt, syria and other countries in the middle east to be interrogated and tortured, and in some cases eliminated. what is the council's position on the current investigations? we know the commission's position, it is very clear, it does not intend to tolerate other violations of human rights which are as serious. finally, mr minister, is the principle of proportionality still valid in the european institutions? many colleagues have raised questions about data protection, and at the moment we have two radically different ideas, two different approaches. on the one hand the commission is telling us about specific objectives under the control of an independent authority, on the other hand the council intends to collect all the data without any selection. what will be the point of equilibrium, what will be the role of this parliament in establishing that point of equilibrium and what will be the political role of this parliament more generally. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we would like to hear your answer to these questions, mr minister.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks of 11 september, madrid, london, sharm el sheik and other asian and african cities show that terrorism has not only changed its face but also its strategies, its organizations and its weapons to attack our democracies. that is why, in the face of the evolving terrorist threat, the countermeasures needed to defeat the enemies of freedom must be updated and adapted. europe, in order to defend the right to security of its citizens, must make every effort to equip itself with operational tools and standards capable of preventing and countering al qaeda and its allies. the council, the commission, the european parliament and the member states must work quickly to bring about common measures, especially in sensitive areas which affect both security and the right to liberty. harmonised measures are needed, for example, with regard to the expulsion of persons who preach hatred and violence and are dangerous to security. italy - and i am glad that the netherlands agrees with me on this - expelled an imam yesterday and is preparing to expel more people in the coming days. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore agree with the proposals of the british presidency and those of commissioner frattini. i refer to the collection and storage of telephone traffic data: if these elements had not been used, one of the architects of the london bombings would not have been arrested in rome. but terrorism cannot be fought and defeated only with the hand of firmness, of course with respect for human rights, with the rules and with the action of the police and intelligence forces. in short, one hand is not enough, the hand of politics is also needed. strong action is needed from europe and the national states to involve moderate islam in this struggle: i am thinking of islamic consultations that isolate the violent, the preachers of hate, that allow muslims living in europe not to be exploited. we must not confuse islam with terrorism, but condemn those who, in the name of extremism, think they are preventing young european muslims from attending state or equivalent schools in favour of koranic schools. this is a worrying phenomenon - there is a striking example in milan - aimed at blocking the integration of immigrants into europe in order to create pockets of illegality. just as the national states cannot meet the challenge of these years alone, so europe cannot do it alone. we need a broader cooperation, certainly with the united states, but also with the moderate arab countries, which are also in the crosshairs of bin laden. for all these reasons, the forza italia delegation of the european people's party will support the union's actions in the fight against terrorism, while respecting the human rights and security of every person living in europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out in your speeches, israel's withdrawal from gaza was an important step in the right direction. we would have preferred, however, that it had taken place within the framework indicated by the road map and with a different role for the quartet. in any case, it has shown that it is possible to proceed without violence along the path of peace and respect for international law. we are not unaware of the tensions that have arisen in parts of israeli society and in particular in the political world of that country, especially with regard to the prospects that are now opening up and the further steps to be taken. in this context, the commitment of the international community and the european union to the pursuit of the only possible perspective is important, namely that of the continuation of the peace process until the realization of the right of the palestinian people to a sovereign state, in peace and security for both peoples. the message we want to send through this debate is very clear and is first and foremost a political message. let the most nationalistic sectors of israeli society, represented today by minister netanyahu, not think they can find space and understanding outside of respect for international law. continuing the policy of colonization means condemning israel to international isolation and encouraging the most extremist sectors of the palestinian community. at the same time, the supporters of terrorism should avoid claiming the outcome of the gaza withdrawal, which was the result of the renewed prestige of the palestinian leadership in the world. it is also important that the palestinians, as you have said, continue the open process with the presidential elections. we welcome the date set for the elections and support the continuation of the reforms announced by president abu mazen at the time of his election, and the relentless fight against terrorism and violence. the international community, for its part, must continue to bear in mind that political terrorism of an islamist origin, which is also a matter of great concern to the citizens of our countries, will be decisively defeated if we are able to defuse the main source of hatred and tension in the middle east conflict.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the excellent cooperation that has been established and the good work that has been done. mr commissioner, my request is identical to that which mr jarzembowski has just made to you: the commission's own initiative report has brought to the attention of parliament and the european institutions the importance of an economic sector of considerable size, as you yourself have acknowledged, for employment and for the production of gross domestic product, which is now able to grow even after enlargement and to provide new employment. however, questions need to be answered concerning the methods of implementation, the instruments chosen, the means, the commitment of all the european institutions. the report states, and i agree with it, that in addition to what individuals and states must do, community action must be to promote integrated and therefore sustainable socioeconomic and environmental policies. that is the key point, commissioner, which the socialists want to emphasize. europe must also promote innovation through new instruments, since tourism, which has been financed indirectly and in various ways by the european union, has too often remained a mere consumption of the territory. in the face of world competition from other holiday destinations, whose costs are now competitive, it is no longer enough to mitigate the negative effects of disparate policies and consumption with sporadic european funding. it's not enough to protect the environment, we have to make the leap, promote a different model of sustainable usability that focuses on quality. the creation of a business-friendly environment, which is a european responsibility, as defined in the treaty establishing a constitution, must therefore be sought in order to encourage the development of the tourism sector towards the integrated use of the territory as a motor of local development. tourism also requires the strengthening of the internal market, the progressive establishment of equal treatment between operators, the community classification of services, and homogeneous skills and professionalism. the ambition must be to create a system-oriented europe, to value the richness of cultural diversity and to contribute to the development of a european brand. the european portal can be the first, necessary, instrument, it is right and important to finance pilot projects which can become models of good practice, it requires the identification of a relevant budget line, a more explicit and stronger political will. the mobility and safety of passengers are a necessary condition for the objectives of growth, cohesion and convergence to be achieved, starting with the tourism sector. that is why we have tabled amendments as socialists which make this clear, and i hope that the house will accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not perhaps no other economic sector is as complex as tourism. i would like to focus on one aspect: sustainability, as already stated in the title, and more specifically on sustainable transport as a prerequisite for a thriving and long-term tourism. no other economic sector is as dependent on the environment as tourism. beautiful landscapes, well-kept villages, healthy air, quiet, good, healthy food, etc.: this is the real capital for the tourism industry. tourism has a lot to do with traffic. however, in many tourist areas we are so out of step with the rest of the world that we are slowly but surely destroying the foundations of sustainable economies. the crazy development of mass tourism is for example seen in many places during the high season in the weekly saturday traffic accidents, when tourists arrive and leave at the same time. the present report supports the further development of air transport. air transport is the worst form of mobility in terms of energy consumption and climate impact. the second worst form is private car travel. the good old railway, which was a major factor in the first flowering of tourism in the alps some 100 years ago, is mostly forgotten, neglected and disadvantaged. unfortunately, tourists who wish to travel by public transport often find that in many of the regions they visit, it is not possible to have a reasonable level of mobility without a car. the main reasons for this are inadequate services in local public transport and inadequate information and booking systems in many railway administrations. if we really want to promote sustainable tourism throughout europe, we should put much more emphasis on these ecological aspects.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the approach that the european parliament has finally taken to the great issue of tourism. the queiró report is an excellent framework, and i congratulate the rapporteur on this, with whom i agree on the need to face international competition by focusing on efficient and quality services and on better promotion of european tourist destinations. i personally believe that it is essential to strengthen efforts to train specific professionals in order to offer real prospects to those working in the sector, to reduce the negative consequences of the instability of seasonal labour and to ensure services adapted to the new demands. in this sense, through the amendments i have tabled and which the committee on transport and tourism has accepted, i propose the creation of an ad hoc training network for tourism skills within community programmes already in operation, such as erasmus. i also suggest that further measures be taken to gradually harmonise the tax rates on the profit margins of tour operators; the committee also considers that training for staff who receive and care for elderly and disabled tourists is necessary and indispensable, and that equal rights should be guaranteed to these groups of users, who are increasingly inclined to take advantage of holidays. finally, i believe that it is essential to standardize the criteria for evaluating the classification of hotel establishments and the harmonization of tourist professions. i believe that today parliament is making an important step forward, with an approach and attention that is no longer episodic but constant and appropriate to the great theme of tourism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr queiró for his excellent work. tourism is a vital industry for my country, italy, and even more so for my city, rome. that is why i particularly care about your report. tourism is an essential resource for developing strong employment growth in a time of severe economic crisis. europe has a natural vocation to be a tourist destination, not only because we are the continent richest in history, art and culture, but also because of our approach to tourism that favours quality, respect for the environment and the territory: travel as a form of cultural enrichment. i would like to mention briefly two reasons why i believe that tourism can no longer be thought of as a policy of the member states alone, but that european action is needed instead: firstly, to promote tourism within europe as a form of exchange and mutual knowledge; secondly, economic stagnation and international challenges require us to think about tourism in global terms. we must attract new demand from china, brazil, india, by offering an integrated offer, by promoting the destination europe as a whole. we cannot afford to lose this challenge in a sector where we have the greatest potential for growth, development and employment. this report offers several ideas on which to build intelligent proposals. the tourist destinations of excellence, the reduction of vat rates for operators, the promotion of agriturismo, an all-italian form of rural tourism to encourage farmers not to leave the countryside and to promote typical products. in the light of the recent tragic incidents, i would like to remind you that europe must guarantee the safety of its tourists. in this sense parliament must quickly adopt the regulation on blacklists, but also all the measures necessary to act quickly to deal with crises such as the attacks of the last few months. the objectives set out in the report are ambitious and innovative, and that is why we are calling, commissioner, for a concerted effort and adequate financial support for a sector of vital importance for the whole of europe.
i would like to congratulate mr queiroz on his excellent report. i shall confine myself to a few brief reflections: we have all known for years now the important role played by tourism in the development of local economies, employment - especially for women and young people. the european conference on tourism and employment, organised by the luxembourg presidency in november 1997, had already highlighted 'the attraction of tourism for young people and women, who often find their first job'. for this reason too, we in the union fully support the request to the commission and the council that, when the structural policy instruments for 2007-2013 are adopted, an integrated approach to tourism be included, 'to coordinate the operations of the new european regional development fund and the european agricultural fund'. another aspect which i would like to stress, and which is totally new, is the reference to itinerant tourism, represented in particular by the caravan and the caravan: it is a tourism segment that is active 365 days a year and contributes to the employment growth of the sector. which, in lean times, does not break! this is a sector which therefore needs measures to improve its development.
president-in-office of the council. with the greatest respect, i shall choose my own words on what is an issue of great interest but also of great controversy. i think it is fair to draw attention to the clearly stated position of the european parliament on the opening of accession talks with turkey and the decision reached, as i explained, in the european council. it also has to be borne in mind that discussions are currently under way through the permanent representatives of council members, ahead of what we anticipate to be the opening of accession talks, if that process is taken forward, on 3 october. you have to understand the issue of turkey in the broader context of what has been set out by the commission in relation to not just the copenhagen criteria, but the broader criteria for enlargement. at the recent gymnich meeting that took place in the united kingdom, commissioner rehn made clear that there were really three fundamentals that needed to be recognised in relation to enlargement: firstly, consolidation, secondly, conditionality and thirdly, communication. i would merely state, in relation to turkey, that there is a very clear understanding, as i sought to convey in my answer, on the issue of conditionality. the opening of accession talks would represent not the end of that process, but the beginning of a much longer one. i think that, as the question showed, the way forward is not to identify a particular statement by one individual or another, but instead to uphold the important and rigorous process of conditionality which is expected not just for any prospective member aspiring to join the european union, but which should apply to every potential candidate for accession. given the interest in this matter, i am confident that turkey will undergo this process in the weeks, months and, indeed, years to come.
mr president, i ask the representative of the presidency of the council whether religious freedom is in line with our human rights standards.
president-in-office of the council. as i have sought to suggest in previous answers i have given in the course of this question time, there are objective criteria which are set down for all potential candidate countries seeking membership of the european union. they apply as much to croatia as they would to any other potential member state of the european union. however, i would emphasise that, on this particular issue, which has attracted so much attention, croatia's obligations are very clear, as is the opportunity that is available to croatia if it meets those obligations in relation to the international criminal tribunal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. article 166 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament provides that 'a statement of the rules of procedure shall take precedence over all other statements'. that is why i have every reason to speak. i have a few words to say on rule 109 (question time). in this case, paragraph 4 refers to appendix ii. in annex ii, under additional questions, point 4, the following is added: 'any member may ask a supplementary question to any question after it has been answered. it can only put two additional questions in total. i have the italian version, too, which says the same thing. the official who constantly tells me with a header that i have no right to put a second supplementary question should therefore have this point reviewed by the competent bodies and will find that i have the right to put the second supplementary question under the rules of procedure in force, provided that you give me your consent to do so under point 6a of annex ii.
substitute writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the answer seems to me to be very vague and a sine die reference to a decision. we are faced with a law which in practice regularizes paramilitaries, giving the possibility to mafia members and drug traffickers to turn into paramilitaries and thus to use this law, which is also strongly criticised by amnesty international, which says that - in fact - this demilitarisation and demobilization did not take place. i therefore ask for a very precise answer on the question of funds: the european union is still going to finance this kind of project, which formally aims at demobilization, but in fact ends up supporting these paramilitary groups?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i first of all thank the rapporteur and, in addressing myself to the commissioner, i think it is appropriate to point out that this ambitious report - which links the gender approach to health and the state of health systems - needs political leadership, including from the commission. the commission should make its voice heard and, on the basis of a detailed analysis of the various national health systems in the europe of 25, tell us what its overall approach is, how it intends to integrate prevention and treatment into all the union's policies and, above all, what its idea of a europe is, with which, after consulting parliament, we want and can communicate the progress made on this continent, which is not just a list of misfortunes, but a part of the world in which women live better than in other parts of the planet. the commission should also clarify the challenges we face in building a new welfare system tailored to women. without women europe cannot move forward, and this is a political awareness which i hope the commission will not abandon. i am therefore grateful for this report, but i must say that i have asked for a separate vote on three points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. recital u and paragraph 15 state that ovarian stimulation as such may constitute a danger to women's health. this is a false statement and may lead to the unspoken condemnation of stem cell research in the name of alleged gender discrimination. we don't need any obscurantist positions! europe must move forward on scientific and sound grounds. paragraph 10 calls, at least in translation into some languages, not for the right to exclude human cloning from european programmes, but for the practice to be stopped or suspended. europe does not fund any such programme, so there can be no suggestion that we are trying to stop therapeutic cloning.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the present report by mr cornillet contains a number of valuable suggestions and correct demands. most of the reasons are self-evident. again, many serious problems are critically listed, such as child labour, sexual exploitation of children and real estate speculation. the greens/efa group is pleased that this subject has been discussed here in parliament and that the following points have been included: investing tourism profits in the developing countries concerned, avoiding mass tourism, promoting human rights and preserving biodiversity. we regret - and i agree with the rapporteur - that this document shows europeans standing in the middle of the road, arrogantly above third countries and looking to themselves as the standard for everything. we believe that environmental protection and the need for a truly sustainable economy are far too little emphasized in this area. the ecological and social consequences of mass tourism, such as the pollution of water, the alienation of the local population and the exploitation of multinational hotel chains, are not or not sufficiently clearly demonstrated. this report is a first, important attempt, but much of it is only half-hearted and too vague. we hope that the commission will continue to pursue the direction indicated and that international solidarity will gain greater weight as a peace-building measure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. tourism, as the cornillet report rightly points out, has been an important opportunity for sustainable growth for developing countries, which must nevertheless exploit this resource while respecting the cultures, specificities, socioeconomic structures and traditions of the local populations. i would like to highlight two serious forms of illegality which unfortunately often accompany tourism in these areas. first of all, sex tourism, which is considered the third largest form of illegal trade in the world, often involving minors, is a shameful and growing phenomenon. another phenomenon of illegality is building speculation, which has involved, and generally distorted, areas of environmental value and cultural sites, with the tacit consent and often even the consent of the decaying local authorities. it would be most appropriate if the community institutions took a strong and energetic initiative, particularly on the means and instruments to combat these two illegal practices carried out mainly by europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can only agree on the importance of tourism as an economic factor and a factor of sustainable development. i have some doubts about the cornillet report, which shows some redundancies and naivety: in recital s, for example, the underlining 'and his supporters' seems to be open to amendment. in the ag recital some non-significant assumptions are made, it is claimed that sex tourism should be combated by the authorities, in concert with ngos; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. finally, in the interests of decency, paragraph 30 cannot 'be taken as a positive assessment' of the new legal basis for tourism enshrined in the european constitution, since it is now worthless, buried by the results of the referendums and by the fear, for example, of the blair government to proceed shortly with further checks. finally, development and tourism do not need increased spending. i am opposed to the strengthening of existing services or the creation of new ones in the directorates-general of the european commission, as proposed by the rapporteur.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr bowis on his report. it identified some of the key points on which the commission will concentrate its action over the next few years with the help of parliament and the member states. the european commission supports improving health outcomes through projects, sectoral budget support and general budget support linked to health outcomes. the commission will also continue to support research and development to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including so-called neglected diseases. the action programme to accelerate the fight against hiv aids, malaria and tuberculosis in external actions proposes additional actions to combat these three major diseases of poverty. the programme proposes a series of coherent, concrete actions, often jointly undertaken by the european commission and the member states, to be undertaken both in the partner countries and at global level, in order to strengthen the fight against these diseases and to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals. our actions should contribute to a strengthening of the credibility of prevention policy, access to treatment and investment for the development of new vaccines and other prevention or treatment tools and interventions. in this context, europe will strengthen its political dialogue with its partners to help them meet the enormous challenges they face, through ambitious strategies and the active participation of civil society and the private sector. europe will help to strengthen the capacities of these countries in key areas, in particular the regulation of the evaluation and marketing authorisation of pharmaceutical products, as well as research. let me also tell you about other initiatives i have already taken which are closely linked to the action programme. the first initiative is the crisis of human resources in the health sector in developing countries. as you know, this is a critical problem in countries that are trying to step up their efforts to combat all three diseases. i will therefore be presenting a communication to the college highlighting ways of strengthening this fight, in collaboration with the member states of the european union and the african union. i'm also going to launch a new initiative to ensure the availability of new medicines. this requires additional support from the world health organization. it will also require new measures at european level to encourage - and you have said it very well - the private sector to invest in research and development of new medicines more specifically geared to the treatment of diseases specific to certain countries which, obviously, today have little economic interest for the sector. i have tried to give you a clearer idea of how the commission intends to follow up the action programme, by working with the member states of the european union, programming resources and launching specific initiatives. i look forward to continuing our dialogue on these issues.
the agenda shall include the vote. (for details of the votes: see minutes)
in writing. it is unacceptable that the allowances have increased by 62.20% for 2005/06 from 2002/03. this is an outrageous increase, because it is prohibitive for most of the families concerned and because it was decided while the 1994 agreement, which covered a period of 10 years, was still in force. the public service nature of the se should not allow for such unilateral choices, which would violate the acquired rights of the families. whatever compromises may be made on the budget, certain points seem to us to be indispensable: 1) the ses should be present in all member states, 2) the language sections should be as numerous as possible, based on the principle of respect for cultural identity, 3) the maximum number of pupils per class should be reduced from the current 32, 4) some adjustments to the curricula are desirable: the european commission has recently published a report on the european union's role in the world of culture. 5) the current european baccalaureate in the humanities and sciences should be supplemented by a vocational baccalaureate. both directives would remain a precise and valid reference point for the training of young people in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise as a member of the new socialism and the committee on development to make the following comments. health systems in developing countries are in constant flux: the debt service and debt repayment account for about 40% of gdp, while education and healthcare remain negligible. beyond the efforts of individual states, however, the international community will need to take responsibility for supplementing these investments with adequate long-term financial support. it is hoped that the seventh framework programme, in line with the strategic objectives of the millennium, will include a specific reference to research on diseases affecting these countries and provide for funding accordingly. it is absurd, and in many ways intolerable, that, because of the lack of profitable markets, there is no substantial research on diseases that affect almost exclusively the poor in developing countries. such a situation must be corrected quickly by a serious, concrete and timely commitment at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a well-known fact that china is notorious for its lack of regard for human rights. further underlining is euphemistic. ladies and gentlemen, what is lacking in the resolutions of this parliament, which are as broad as this one, is a little intellectual honesty. the hypocritical paragraph 3 is that it should be made clear to the chinese authorities that a genuine partnership can only develop when shared values are fully respected and put into practice. it is ridiculous that, after listing a sorry succession of violations and making the usual appeals, we should welcome the existence of a structured eu-china dialogue on human rights. not a word of serious condemnation and, even less, of sanctioning assumptions. the european parliament has been a party to this resolution for a long time. i urge my colleagues not to vote for this resolution.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating an important date in europe: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december it is an event born in 2001 with the involvement of the european union and especially the council of europe, which has planned events throughout europe. today we welcome our new romanian and bulgarian colleagues, and with them, from 1 january 2007, bulgarian and romanian will join our community language family, bringing the official languages from twenty to twenty-two. for us europeans, language is synonymous with culture, history and therefore with a huge historical and cultural heritage. my thought is: would it not be appropriate, finally, as a european parliament, to promote a constructive reform of the language regime within the community institutions? the arrival of new languages, especially those which will become part of our daily work, certainly gives me great joy, but i am extremely concerned about the chaos and the lack of written rules, as the european commission has confirmed to me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak on the situation in western sahara. the polisario front released the last moroccan prisoners of war last august, which is a positive development, which was welcomed by the un secretary-general, bush and the entire international community. however, the same is not happening to detainees in moroccan prisons: the physical conditions of the dozens of saharawi prisoners on hunger strike are now critical, as amnesty international has reported. among them are women and men who are symbols of the defence of human rights. europe cannot remain silent, it must take a decisive initiative to secure the release of human rights defenders and to ensure that morocco, the saharawis who remained in western sahara and the refugees agree to live in peace by cooperating in the creation of the new democratic arab-saharawi republic and that they no longer live in exile or in prison.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on the 25th anniversary of solidarnosc and its message for europe. in introducing this debate, i would like to emphasize that solidarnosc's contribution to the history of a united europe is a chance and an opportunity for a generation to be educated in freedom: the west has certainly done a great deal for the countries of eastern europe which were subject to the soviet yoke, but solidarnosc has done perhaps much more for the west and for a generation of westerners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my main purpose in speaking is to emphasize, beyond rhetoric or mere phrases, the important work that mr doorn has done. i would also like to say, as i said in committee and as i would say again here, that i think the work done has been intelligent, balanced and far-sighted. i think the directive is really important because there is a problem of market security, which the scandals highlighted have brought even more into the light. however, the need for a directive such as the one we are proposing has been apparent for some time now, and it is proving to be a success at first reading and is the point of balance we have found in parliament. there are new safeguards for savers, on which, as in the case of consumers, we should focus our main attention, since the financial relationship between banks, issuers and savers remains a fundamental element for the social balance of a country. i also thank the rapporteur for the intelligent solution he has identified for the rotation of audit firms, a solution which, of course, i speak from my own experience, but i believe that other countries have also had the same assessment, and my country is very supportive and very satisfied. doorn and his colleagues on the balance side must also be acknowledged in this respect. the agreement on implementing measures gives a measure of the importance which parliament can and must have in relation to this difficult operational aspect of the directive. in conclusion, and also in connection with all the positive remarks that have been made, i can only say formally and with great satisfaction that the work has been fruitful and that the rapporteur and i offer it to the house.
i would like to thank mr kreissl-dörfler, my friend and colleague, for his serious work and for the difficult attempt to build a common report. unfortunately, the council has already decided, and we take note of that, that it will not be present today and will very likely ignore the indications that will come from parliament. i believe that the kreissl-dörfler report improves the directive proposed to us, particularly on the abolition of the super-safe country and also on the fact that the margins for appeals against possible denials are being extended. however, there are still some important questions that we cannot ignore, and i am thinking in particular of the role of the consular authorities, who must not meet asylum seekers under any circumstances. the question remains that asylum seekers should not be held in detention facilities. we have just visited lampedusa and we have seen how the mixing of asylum seekers and irregular migrants generates barbarism in the relationships within the detention centres. we believe that these people should not be kept in the same places, and we believe that asylum seekers should never be detained. where strictly necessary, provision should be made for them not to be kept in the same place and in any case not for more than six months. we are also concerned about the use made in the report of the safe third country concept, about the criteria for the definition of safe third country and also about how the list of countries will be drawn up. this is very important for us, because the safe third country by definition prevents a case-by-case assessment, since it delegates to another country, considered safe according to fairly flexible criteria, the task which falls to us: asylum is not a concession, it is a moral and political duty of europe and a right for men and women who are persecuted or fleeing war. which countries are safe? the criteria could even include morocco or belarus, for example, where we have chosen to consider ourselves a privileged partner even if we are going through a process of outsourcing the union's borders. i believe that the safe third country and the concept of safe third country put the lives of asylum seekers at risk and we cannot afford that. i also believe that parliament's control is too limited, that codecision will only be used to amend the list of safe third countries. commissioner frattini tells us that the report has been drawn up step by step. i think that was a very uncourageous step, and we could have asked for much more. the harmonization we have done is probably a harmonization which makes even some national legislation worse.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate the council on its absence. i think this is symptomatic of the importance attached to this parliament, ahimé, ahinoi! i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter and that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council is able to reach an agreement on the matter. the rapporteur regrets the lack of progress in terms of harmonisation, but does not take account of the different perceptions that a country may have of the immigration problem. when i talk about immigration, i mean it as a problem. it is undeniable that the so-called peripheral countries of the union suffer and are affected most by genuine attacks by immigrants who sometimes arrive with good intentions, but are nevertheless illegal. in the absence of a community immigration policy, of a sensible and concrete policy, i think it is legitimate for the member states to reserve the right to examine only those applications which they consider to be serious and to reject them if necessary. however, some colleagues insist on considering immigration as a non-community problem, imagining that the individual states must bear the exorbitant costs of these waves of migration. amendments have been adopted which contradict the council's proposals, and the definition of a 'safe third country' has in fact been removed, preventing states from rejecting applications which are not considered suitable despite the fact that they come from countries considered to respect human rights and freedoms. if this parliament - perhaps because it is too politically correct - is going to ignore the fact that immigrants, especially through my own italy, enter europe and almost always end up committing crimes and endangering the safety of citizens, then perhaps we should have the courage to say that each country regulates itself as it sees fit, that is, with twenty different laws. but the left doesn't talk about a united europe: the hypocrisy belongs to them, not to us on the right!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and the commission for this proposal, which we consider to be a sincere attempt to achieve uniform treatment of asylum seekers throughout the union. today this proposal is being supported and efforts are being made in the european parliament to bring us back into line with the spirit of the tampere council, which has been mentioned several times today, but also to overcome the primacy of fear as the only political element, as the only criterion for action in our immigration and asylum policies. but now we must ensure that the directive as amended is applied and that it really becomes the new european legislation applied in all our countries. first of all, as regards the new definition of a safe third country, in order to avoid, mr president, if i may, some of the operetta interpretations that have come from the right-wing benches today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need objective and precise conditions, which is the exact opposite of what is happening today. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of europe. it is also a question of transforming the role of parliament. we are not presenting a nice suggestion to the council today, but are asking for certain, rigorous and responsible rules. in conclusion, i believe that the fundamental problem is to make the council and all the european institutions understand that europe cannot simply defend itself today, but must defend the rights of those who today suffer the violence of war and the humiliation of persecution. we must ask ourselves, then, in the face of all this, whether the problem for us is to receive the asylum application or whether the problem for these refugees is not the war and persecution from which they are fleeing? this is a question which should be asked of our conscience even before the european institutions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent agreement between the united states and the european union is only a first step, which is certainly inadequate and insufficient, towards the international recognition and protection of protected traditional terms. it was time for a change of course, after the harmful effects of the infamous regulation no 316/2004 which in fact gave producers in non-eu countries the right to misuse protected traditional terms, thus creating enormous damage to the production of quality wine, both italian and of course european as a whole. commissioner fischer boel, also in this house, said that the agreement protects european names and will safeguard the largest export market of the european union. there is no doubt that these are the objectives to be achieved, but there is some doubt that the agreement is the right prerequisite for achieving these objectives. it is true that the us administration will propose to congress that the status be changed and the use of 17 european names currently considered semi-generic in the united states be restricted, but it is also true that the united states will still be able to use, albeit under certain conditions and for a limited period of time, 14 traditional community names. the longstanding question of the usurpations in question has not yet been settled once and for all. on the other hand, the united states has committed itself to accepting the basic principles of the community labelling rules and will seek to resolve any bilateral issues relating to wine trade through informal bilateral consultations rather than through dispute settlement mechanisms. but what is the most worrying concession made by the european union? the agreement also gives the european union recognition of the oenological practices of american wine producers. this means that wine diluted with 7% water or flavoured with wood chips, which is obviously prohibited for our producers, can be imported into the european union. this will result in a serious danger to the quality wine and a serious imbalance in the wine market. on the one hand, we have managed to give a certain stability to exports to the usa, also by facilitating procedures, but we have still exceeded the oenological practices and we still do not have sufficient guarantees for the usurpation of protected terms. mr president, the agreement provides that negotiations for an even more comprehensive agreement will begin 90 days after its entry into force. we are now calling for negotiations to be conducted with the aim of effectively protecting traditional terms. we believe that the commission should, in the course of the negotiations, seek above all to obtain a definitive commitment from the us authorities to put an end to the unlawful use in the united states of geographical indications protected by community legislation within a maximum period of two years. i conclude by saying that the agreement, the exceptional derogation for us imports, could be used by other wto members to claim equal treatment, thus opening the way to the introduction of products of dubious origin and composition. in view of this situation, the european union must take more energetic measures to defend traditional and quality wine production. the starting point should be the repeal of regulation no 316/2004, which liberalised the use of protected traditional terms, creating unfair competition and misleading consumers as to the origin and quality of products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you also for wanting to start the second stage. you have spoken of a first stage, of a first agreement on this subject, you have spoken of a second stage in which due consideration will be given to certain elements which we wish to emphasize and which concern quality, health, protection, tradition. the european union has always pursued a policy of quality in the wine sector, with very specific, very selective rules on the content and oenological processes. how can we ask our producers today to comply with community legislation and community quality policy if we then allow third countries to export to our market what the community itself forbids its producers to do? how can we expect our producers to compete on price with imported products which have lower production costs due to the use of processing practices which significantly reduce quality? quality means above all that the consumer is guaranteed a healthy product: food safety is a priority for us which we have strongly wanted and we have regulated it several times, i am referring to regulation 178 and a special authority for food safety. the positive effects of wine on human health are now well known, and they depend on its organoleptic properties, but also on hygienic and sanitary conditions. moreover, the lack of indication of the origin of the wine makes it impossible for the consumer to recognize it and at the same time puts the producer in difficulty, who has to bear higher costs to produce a product of higher quality. it is our task to ensure that the wine on our tables, on those of european consumers, is healthy and also of quality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this morning we invoked a thousand-year-old culture, our specialties, our territorial diversity. in short, this means ensuring that the geographical indications for our wines are respected and that our sectoral offer is competitive. i do not see in this agreement sufficient protection for our geographical indications, i do not see in it consistency with the position which the union is taking in the wto negotiations, i do not see in it the same firm resolve which you yourself renewed last week at the council, mr commissioner. if we want to protect the indications in the doha round, we must do so, above all through bilateral negotiations, without any concessions. the agreement does not respect our producers, it does not respect our consumers, it does not respect our market, it does not respect the identity of the european union on the international scene! it is not a question of closing the market, certainly not, but of guaranteeing fair, undistorted competition, in which the quality of the product and, at the same time, consumer protection can really prevail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the agreement between the european union and the united states on trade in wine provides a stable legal framework for trade relations and is therefore a useful step forward, and we are pleased to acknowledge the merit of this to commissioner fischer boel. like many other members of this house, we believe it is essential that in the second stage the commission should keep in mind the priority objectives for the community market in order to ensure that the protection of designations of origin and the conditions for the recognition of oenological practices are finally achieved. i think that the concerns of my colleagues are justified and i am confident that, in close dialogue with parliament, the commission will pursue these objectives.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the content is quite simple: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add a piece of information for colleagues: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
the court is in session. the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed. are there any comments?
mr president, your speech does not concern comments on the minutes of yesterday's sitting, that is to say, the previous sitting. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by mr ambroise guellec, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development [2004/2256 (ini) ] (a6-0251/2005);the report by mr sérgio marques, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on a strengthened partnership for the outermost regions [2004/2253 (ini) ] (a6-0246/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my deep appreciation for both reports by mr guellec and mr marquez, and i shall focus in particular on mr guellec's report. one of the union's fundamental objectives is cohesion policy, especially after the last enlargement and in view of the subsequent and imminent accessions of bulgaria and romania. the european parliament's first term of office was marked by a strong focus on cohesion policy, with all the regulations relating to regional policy for the 2007-13 programming period being approved. the constant and fruitful cooperation and dialogue with commissioner danuta hübner, which i personally experienced as rapporteur on the regulation for the cohesion fund, has led to a strong will on the part of the commission and parliament not to accept reductive solutions. there can be no credible and effective cohesion policy without adequate financial instruments, which is why we want the financial perspective to be drawn up as soon as possible. we must avoid concentrating european aid in a few areas, thereby increasing disparities within a single region, but instead, within the backward areas of development, we must carry out widespread, homogeneous, widespread interventions, as mr guellec rightly pointed out. i also agree with the rapporteur on the importance of cities, especially medium-sized ones, as engines of territorial cohesion. this is what i tried to say in the amendments which parliament subsequently adopted to the regulation on the european regional development fund, for which i was the shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group, adle, thus highlighting the urban dimension as the focal point for the development of the immediate and contiguous rural peripheries. i also welcome mr guellec's proposal to use specific territorial indicators in addition to the usual gdp indicator to measure the development of the regions. i believe, however, that they should be used regularly in order to give rise to assessments of the impact of community programmes in progress. among the many positive effects that such a working methodology would support, i would mention the further empowerment of local authorities and actors, who are increasingly to be seen as protagonists and promoters of development, and the greater flexibility in the application phase of measures, thus a more appreciable impact on the territories.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commission for the good work it has done in defining the characteristics of the outermost regions and in meeting the needs of these areas, which are particularly affected by their geographical location in terms of development and market competitiveness. it is good that more and more effective measures are being considered to support these regions and that the marques report also includes a good neighbour action plan to promote trade between these regions and neighbouring markets. the good neighbour action plan is a good opportunity both to establish socioeconomic and cultural links with those countries which host communities of migrants from the outermost regions and to break down barriers which restrict trade opportunities with surrounding geographical areas such as the caribbean, the americas and africa. the commission, in its communication com ((2004) 0343) of 26 may 2004, set two objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, in order to reduce the difficulties of access of these regions not only to continental europe but also to each other and to improve the competitiveness of enterprises. this is the objective to be achieved: growing up to grow up. this is also the meaning of the lisbon strategy, if we wish. in this context, however, the primary effort is to have certainty about the financial perspective, since only then will it be possible to assess whether the funds available to the regions will allow an equitable distribution of resources according to the needs which the commission has outlined. in conclusion, therefore, we should be more committed to the outermost regions and strengthen our partnership with them, so that they can break out of their isolation and become more competitive with the common market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the positive assessment of the two reports we are examining, which highlight the great differences between our regions and show how enlargement has made these differences even greater. territorial cohesion is the basis of long-term social and economic cohesion. if we are to aim at an area of growth, prosperity, stability and justice which includes all the 500 million inhabitants who make up the european union today, this must be a primary objective. but if it is so difficult to move regions that are slow in development forward, what happens when completely extraordinary events strike one of these regions, events that can be due to climatic factors, fires, floods, earthquakes. we have seen on our television screens what has happened across the atlantic in advanced realities like louisiana or texas. we are witnessing the situation in the regions of romania where the floods of recent weeks have brought death and despair. if the european union is not there when we need it, it is because, apart from a solidarity fund which is absolutely limited in the means available, we are not doing anything. if europe is not involved in these cases, when does it think it will be? a europe which has not yet reached agreement on the financial perspective, a europe in which six governments of major countries are demanding further reductions in the financial commitment, what can it promise to these countries, to these peoples who believed in the european dream? well, i think we should reflect because this is what our fellow citizens expect and this is what we have a duty to do for our future and that of our children.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main objectives of territorial policy, as the two reports rightly point out, is the application of the principle of equality between citizens, regardless of where they live in the european union. particular attention should be paid to the 9.4 million inhabitants of the 284 islands of the european union, 3% of the total population in a territory of 95.000 km2. the economic development of these areas is conditioned by isolation and the additional costs it entails. in many cases these islands are mountainous and are themselves backward peripheral regions. their average gdp per capita in 2004 was 72% of the eu average and in most cases lower than any other area in their respective countries. it should be noted, however, that these logistical disadvantages do not necessarily equate to unfavourable economic circumstances. such handicaps have the potential to be turned into advantages and to open up new development opportunities. the islands are part of our natural heritage of the union and have a strong vocation for many activities, for example tourist, cultural and leisure. moreover, with the development of the knowledge-based economy, a major objective of community policy, it is no longer the proximity to raw materials or large markets that induces citizens to choose the place where they live, but the natural beauties and attractions of the surroundings. the availability of infrastructure and essential elements becomes a determining factor in this respect. it is therefore necessary, after having introduced the principle of the programme fund in the financial perspective for 2007-13, to relaunch territorial cohesion policy as an instrument which provides a fundamental resource, as these two reports correctly do, and to place it among the priority objectives of cohesion policy lato sensu of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem for us is one of substance and not of form. it is quite right to withdraw some directives, but there are some that we would really like to see withdrawn, for example the bolkestein directive, which is unfortunately still there. what concerns us, however, is the emphasis that is being placed on this exercise, an emphasis which is totally out of place because the idea of winning back citizens by doing away with them seems to us to be something at least questionable. i would really ask you, commissioner, after hearing and seeing the industry, to also go and meet the consumer association, the association of those who defend the rights of citizens and the rights of the environment. i am sure you will meet people who will tell you that competitiveness is much more than what you have been trying to propose for the last year or so. i think that also on the question of impact assessment, on other issues that you have raised here such as screening, there are outstanding problems that seem innocent, but unfortunately they are not: i see the dismantling that you and the commissioner and president barroso are doing on reach and what you have already done on the pollution strategy, so frankly i expect you to give a clear answer on both of these issues.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my view the third railway package, which i hope will be the last, represents a sort of last chance for european railways. the last chance to reverse a negative trend in which railways continue to lose market share at a rate which, if sustained, would see rail market share fall to almost zero in a few years. the passage of time is not in the railways' favour, even though european policy continues to declare the modal balance in favour of the train to be strategic, because of the negative effects of the increase in road traffic in terms of fatalities, damage to public health and the environment, and the increasing costs of congestion; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the transeuropean networks. we have therefore a last chance for radical and urgent action to achieve the objectives laid down in the european treaties - that is, since rome, since 1956 - in which it is stated that europe, the union, intends to integrate national modal networks at european level, to make them interoperable both technically and economically, liberalizing access to them. this objective is conceived as a physical prerequisite for the construction of europe, whether it is conceived as a market or designed as a political entity. today we are faced with this last opportunity, which requires great foresight on the part of this parliament and the co-legislator, the european council, because it asks that the european institutions, the political institutions, take responsibility for doing what national railway companies do not have the courage, do not know or cannot do: in other words, to give up defending ever smaller monopoly market segments, which are therefore increasingly unable to cover the costs with traffic revenues, and to focus instead on overall market growth with potential benefits for all. such a result is only possible if the conditions are created for intra-railway competition, which translates into the ability to compete with other modes of transport and the consequent possibility of recovering market shares, which in turn trigger new intra-railway competition in a virtuous circuit. to this end, technical interoperability, the lack of which today constitutes an artificial barrier separating the individual national railway markets, as well as economic interoperability, must be accelerated by liberalising access to networks. the third package is a key element of this strategy. on technical interoperability the path is clear, but we must acknowledge the contribution of the third package through the proposal for a directive on the certification of travellers in the savary report: only by preparing the staff can the system be made interoperable even before its technical interoperability. however, it is precisely the question of whether and how liberalisation should be done that the third package of measures calls on parliament and the council to take into account. the subject of market opening is deferred to the proposal for a directive on the future of the community's railways and is expected to be applied to passenger transport from 2008 on international routes and from 2012 on domestic routes. this is the crux of the enrichment of parliament's proposal: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. these concerns should not be considered to the extent that the type of authorization is removed from the agenda, with the possibility of directly awarding contracts and public rail transport services of national scope without going through a competitive comparison, as the revised version of the proposal for a regulation on public transport service obligations would suggest. parliament welcomes this proposal, which offers the opportunity to unblock the meyer report which has been awaiting the council's common position for years. if this parliament today and the council tomorrow drop those proposals for regulations on passengers' rights and obligations on other fronts, such a compromise may fill the artificial distinction between international and domestic passengers. can the latter continue to be treated as second-class passengers, i.e. with rights less important than those of international passengers? this distinction has no justification other than to maintain protected markets, while passengers are not equally protected, to the ephemeral advantage of national companies. there is one final point: the commission insisted on the need to keep the measures of the third railway package together. the british presidency has sought and obtained sufficient assurances on this point and will endeavour to ensure that the council concludes its examination of the sterckx report and continues its work on the jarzembowski and meyer report. however, apart from the formal aspects, the unity of the package has a deeper meaning: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on the protection of consumers. if consumers are protected, liberalisation can be effective and efficient; if liberalisation does not work or is likely to be dangerous, consumers will not be protected. i think that the zile report should be seen in this light, but the decisions have already been taken and i stand by them. i am convinced that there is a practical reason for maintaining the single package, and i hope that the above considerations will lead to the result we are all proposing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although it is late in the evening, i am facing the debate on the third railway package with the certainty that it is our european duty to support a project to relaunch rail transport for passengers as well as, and perhaps above all, for the intermodality of freight transport. we feel that this is a duty not only to protect the environment but also to ensure the safety of the transport system in the broad sense, in the hope that the strengthening of the railway will help to reduce the mortality rate and, more generally, road accidents, which, it should be remembered, have very high social costs for the member states of the union. although the group of non-attached members which i coordinate in committee has had very limited opportunities to speak on this subject, as is the discriminatory tradition of parliament's rules of procedure, i very much share the work done by my colleagues. mr sterckx has drawn up a report which finally recognises the right of consumers to be reimbursed for delays, at least macroscopic ones, in the transport of goods by rail. it is a right which we in the committee wanted to affirm also for passengers on national and, of course, international routes, whose right is, in my view, ontological. i would also like to stress the common sensitivity of the provisions introduced for passengers with reduced mobility. i also support the report by mr savary on the need for a common system of certification for train drivers and the need for standardisation of their professional skills and health monitoring. i hope that greater guarantees will also be imposed as regards the number of train drivers, which in my view should never be less than two. i also thank my good friend mr jarzembowski, whose report is aimed at stimulating the improvement of rail services through greater competition, thus benefiting consumers, but which i have some doubts about, because this will only be the case if liberalisation is not resolved in yet another race to cut labour costs. finally, i support the report by mr zile, who has expressed the concern of our committee about the imposition of compensation in the event of non-compliance with the delivery deadline. i therefore urge my colleagues to support the reports already approved by the committee on transport.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the train is the only mode of transport in europe which is experiencing a worrying stagnation despite the growth of trade. the environmental emergency, the high price of oil and road congestion require a decisive choice of rail transport, since it is cleaner, safer and can rely on good national infrastructure to be integrated at european level. revitalising and modernising rail transport is a priority for the future of the union. the commission's efforts to achieve progressive harmonization and liberalization of markets are important, but it is the european parliament which has played and continues to play a central role in overcoming national selfishness in this area. the courageous proposal to open up national passenger transport to full liberalization is essential for the completion of the single market, for the relaunch of the community's railways and for a better service to citizens. in this context, the amendment on reciprocity, which i have proposed and which the commission shares, ensures that countries which decide to open their markets before the deadlines are protected from unfair competition by railway undertakings operating in protected national markets. i also think that the legislation on passenger rights and its extension to national traffic is particularly important. the compensation for delays, compensation for damage and accidents and the rights of disabled passengers are a good basis for encouraging our companies to adopt high quality standards and to be competitive with other modes of transport. the transition to rail transport, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the challenges on which europe's credibility and future are being played, and it is therefore essential that parliament should have a strong and clear voice on the package and should be unhesitating in its commitment to innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the three proposals relating to passenger transport to be fairly balanced, as has been shown by the debate and the amendments adopted by the committee on transport. in my view, it is clear that there must be room for public services in rail services, with obligations defined by public service contracts, while the rest of the market is regulated competition with cross-cutting standards for all. but that is precisely the problem, commissioner, because we need a rapid adoption of the regulation on public service obligations. this is an annual issue, the commission, as you know, has presented a new text, which parliament has not yet discussed, where there are no references to cross-cutting quality standards, if i understand correctly, it is only for public services and not for all the others. i would not like to have to acknowledge that the commission's political view is not in the direction indicated in 2002 or in the direction confirmed by the debate in the house and in the committee on transport. we must therefore ensure that liberalization can be seen for what i believe it is, namely a useful instrument for improving the quality of services, but also for giving an impetus to development, with respect for the territory and the environment. this is a key issue and parliament must take it up again, so i would ask the commission to take account of the work we have done in parliament and the amendments we have adopted. i also urge the british presidency to promote a high-level political agreement on this at the transport council in december, which will make clear the possibility of a truly european transport model.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whenever there is an opportunity to discuss turkey, it is clear that the debate immediately becomes political, beyond the more or less legal opportunity that is at the root of it, as is happening now. we have signed together, all the groups, an important compromise document which expresses a united point, but we have also sacrificed certain elements of fairness on the altar of this unity. in my view, the document is extremely harsh in relation to the demands it makes on turkey, and this approach does not help our greek cypriot friends to be more flexible, to find a solution to this situation, for which they are largely responsible. we cannot forget who rejected the referendum, we cannot forget the reasons why we are in this situation. i'm just saying that to set the record straight. a country on the verge of membership has prevented a european union commissioner from speaking on state television and this commissioner has said that he has been betrayed in the trust and the word given by the greek cypriot authorities. i say this because we are not doing our cypriot friends any favors if we do not also call them to a sense of responsibility in this situation. finally, for those of us who think and hope as we do for a political europe, for a political, economic and moral force, it is clearly surprising that we ourselves do not rejoice at the successes which our european soft power is already achieving in turkey. we may not even realize that several taboos have recently fallen, that armenia is being discussed in turkey with the support of the government, despite the fact that the prime minister and the foreign minister have supported the opening of this debate. the kurdish taboo has fallen, just think of the prime minister's last speech on the mistakes made in this regard, the assumption of responsibility with the intervention of diyarbakir. these are the achievements of political europe, the achievements of our capacity to attract people to democratic structures and systems which are more open and respectful. it is true that we have the right to be critical, but we do not have the right to be cynical; the premature death of the european constitution in the french and dutch elections has left the continent without a frontier of ideal maturity, leaving resentments and cynicism that are not politics to stagnate. that is not the way to conduct politics, it is not the way to conduct the federalist, liberal policy of europe that we want as the attraction of freedom, the rule of law and democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in december we asked turkey to give a clear signal, to accept the democratic rules of the european union by first recognising cyprus. the turkish government's negative response is a striking sign of obstinacy. we know that this is a unilateral declaration which has no effect, but it is serious and unjustified. the attitude of europe is no less surprising, as it demonstrates once again its ambiguous role in delaying and entrenching problems rather than solving them through endless compromises. we want to stress that the accession process for turkey cannot be taken for granted. turkey must make concrete commitments, and we cannot make concessions to them. i do not want to say that there has been no improvement, but there is still too much to be done on the fight against torture, on respect for human and civil rights and the protection of minorities; the turkish government, in particular, cannot fail to recognise a state which is already a full member of the european union, namely cyprus, let alone continue to occupy cypriot soil with as many as 40,000 turkish soldiers. a serious and clear accession process is needed, based on the values of integration and mutual respect. we also know how much the italian government has been committed to the successful outcome of the negotiations, but for the reasons i have mentioned, the delegation from the national alliance will express a critical vote of abstention, which does not mean closure to turkey, it is only the demand for compliance with the rules, which must always be the same for everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 october negotiations with turkey will begin, but turkey cannot make a mockery of the european union: the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide electoral system, with the european parliament and the council of ministers as the main actors. a new law limits the ability of lawyers to perform their professional duties, journalists can be arrested if their articles are considered an attack on territorial integrity, teachers' unions have been condemned for having defended the right of everyone to express themselves in school in their own language. mehmet tarhan, a young gay turkish man, was sentenced to several years in prison for declaring himself a conscientious objector. but the situation is worse in the kurdistan region. only a few weeks ago, president ergodan had given rise to hope that a peace process would begin, but none of this has happened. despite the suspension of all military action declared by the congra-gel, violent military actions against the kurdish population, torture and kidnappings continue to be recorded. the european union must call on turkey to politically recognise the existence of a kurdish question and to open public negotiations. the road to the european union passes through diyarbakir, the capital of turkish kurdistan. human rights and respect for democratic rules are not negotiable and the turkish government does not appear to be prepared to comply with the european court of human rights' call for a new trial of öcalan. the european union cannot ignore this situation unless it is to undermine the credibility of the institutions themselves. the idea that turkey can join the european union without recognising cyprus is completely unacceptable: the ball is now in turkey's court, and we can debate for years about economic and customs agreements, but never about human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have always looked with great interest at the courageous choice of turkey to take the side of the west, at least in terms of military and strategic choices. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. the process of democratization initiated by the turkish state towards possible accession to the european union still appears slow, uncertain and contradictory. some obstacles have been overcome, it is true, but others still remain to be removed. it is not a question of a long and endless examination of turkey by the west, but of the indispensable need to build enlargement on a foundation of democracy and respect for civil and international rights. the european union therefore has a duty to support turkey in its training path towards the west, but it also has a duty to be inflexible and uncompromising in this field: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard about human rights, religious freedom, the kurds, cyprus, the pope's mass, the armenians and so on in turkey. all very interesting and important things, but i think there is only one thing that should guide our decisions: the will of the people. the european citizens, our electors, whom we represent, do not want turkey in europe, and i therefore call on my colleagues to respect the will of the people, not to consider ourselves superior to those who elected us, because we are here because someone voted for us and that someone does not want turkey in europe. we are consistent. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is a country on the move, it is no longer the country of yesterday, it is precisely its relationship with europe that has pushed the country towards important reforms. turkey today could not possibly join the union, we are not discussing this and the resolution we are going to adopt contains a thousand conditions. we are discussing the possibility of re-launching europe as the protagonist and promoter of a democratic and stable project at a time when the world has been dominated by insane political choices based on hatred, fear and the presumption of exporting democracy with bombs. such choices have produced death, insecurity and greater instability. we must not give in to fear, we must make a change, we must send a signal, i would say another policy, such as the proposal by zapatero-erdogan, which was accepted by kofi annan, for an alliance of civilizations. i therefore say yes to the opening of negotiations in the name of the security of the citizens of europe, in the name of peace, in the name of the fight against terrorism, which, in order to be effective, must also be made of political choices that isolate terrorists, in the name of the strength of europe as a democratic model exporting democratic values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i left the airport in genoa to go to strasbourg, a genoese pensioner, giacomo bertone, approached me and asked me: "but is turkey part of the geography of europe? i said, "no, no, no. "a small part of turkey is part of europe, a large part of turkey is part of asia". and he commented: "then you must say no to turkey's membership of the european union", and then he went on: "but if turkey joins the european union will it finally end islamic terrorism?" i said: "no, i don't think so, in fact, the islamic terrorists will not only hit europe but also turkey". and then he added: "fatuzzo, as a representative of the party of pensioners, you must vote against turkey's accession to the european union for these reasons and while remaining a great friend of the citizens of turkey". i did, mr president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted no to the resolution on turkey because we believe that turkey would be the trojan horse of islam in europe. we voted no and we hope that at least one of the member states will oppose the decision of 3 october, because it would be bad for the future of europe. i personally hope and wish that my government, the government of italy, will do so, a country with historical roots, with historical continuity with that great tradition of european and christian resistance and opposition to the invasion of islam which has only one name, lepanto. those who have to decide on october 3rd , remember lepanto: against islam in europe, never islam in europe! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is not europe, there are too many different sensibilities, customs, customs, dominant religions, too many different ways of relating to individuals and to gender, too many conflicting geopolitical interests, too many ties to the united states, which - i stress this - are in conflict with ours. cyprus, first of all: we should be ashamed to start such a discourse when a member state and a former member state is still not recognized and partly militarily occupied by turkey, then the armenian genocide, the kurdish question, civil liberties, social tensions and i could go on with a long, undeniable list of contradictions that oppose turkey's accession to the union. in the european parliament, in the commission, the proportion of political weight in relation to population will make turkey's decisions in the european union decisive. we have resisted the annexation of turkey by europe, because that is what it is about, at lepanto and then in vienna. the vast majority of the peoples of europe do not want turkey in europe, and this is the popular mandate which we had the duty to respect by voting 'no'. (applause) i would like to thank
the problem we face is to ensure that the energy supply meets the essential needs of our modern society while at the same time ensuring a very low environmental impact and a reduction in the risks to the health of citizens. the only answer is to start a transition out of the oil age, and while there are no miracle recipes, there are two options to act on: energy saving and renewable sources. only then can europe guarantee immediate responses to both the supply crisis and high prices and to energy diversification to reduce external dependence on oil. for the planet, it could mean easing the points of tension that are at the root of many conflicts. we are at the point where an energy regime has become too costly compared to the benefits: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only economically viable, but also that it is able to meet the needs of the world economy. europe must tackle the energy crisis with research programmes that stimulate the technological development of sustainable and economically competitive energy systems, (the speaker is interrupted) in order to develop employment. this is another reason why public investment must play a leading role in the transition to a renewable energy and energy saving economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank the commissioner for his presence and his commitment. we have already discussed this morning the approaches to be taken and i share your view that a systematic approach to this problem is necessary, precisely because we are facing a huge challenge. oil is scarce and so is the capacity of the ecosystem to accommodate waste streams and combustion products. we need to get out of the oil age, that's simply what we need to do, but that implies change and therefore also the need for leadership for change; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, it is assumed that oil will rise to even higher prices, because there is no reason why, given current demand, the price could fall. we must act now and act along the lines mentioned earlier: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community. we must concentrate on renewable energy sources, which are the ones that will enable us to meet the commitments we have made to the new generations. and leadership implies the ability to direct, even culturally, the process precisely because real demand-side change can be prepared through such a cultural change. it's not about austerity, it's not about sobriety, but we can set up a higher order civilization through the knowledge society taken seriously, that's what we have to do as a system and that's the leadership commitment we have to take on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about oil, we should ask ourselves about the union's foreign policy, about its substantial use of the policy of aggression and theft of energy resources and the main raw materials put in place by the multinationals and the usa. everything that produces wealth on the one hand and impoverishes the legitimate owners of resources on the other hand becomes the target of attempts to rob the financial administrations and policies mentioned. we do not want to talk about reducing vat or excise duties, so what can be done to free our peoples from the yoke of dependence on interests outside europe? 1. nationalizing the resources; 2. to strengthen political and economic links with the producing countries by becoming their preferred partners; 3. cease to support or be complicit in us foreign policy; 4. to free europe from blackmail and conditioning and to support european research bodies on alternative energy sources, especially those from biomass, geothermal and any other renewable source, with substantial funding; 5. to monitor the prices charged by oil companies in the various countries of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion of the oil problem means that we must now discuss the tragedies of our present, from war to the depletion of non-renewable resources to environmental degradation, and decide whether there will be a different future or no future at all. the oil crisis is not a temporary one, as is now obvious, but is linked to the exhaustion of existing social, geopolitical and development models. the way out of this is equity, distribution of wealth, new forms of development, new energy choices based on savings and on clean and safe alternative renewable sources, the opposite of coal and nuclear. peace, equity and the environment are the only choices that can lead us to the future. we must make them a reality through concrete policies, delegated not to the market, but to new policy choices and new public interventions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague and friend mr lambsdorff has already spoken on behalf of the group and let me make a joke on behalf of the liberal group, describing the glass as half full. it is my turn, perhaps because i am a member of the democratic component of the same group, to try to reflect a little on the half-empty side of the glass. we 've all experienced a contradiction in the last few weeks: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. there's a big question, and yet every time we have a chance to meet that growing expectation, we miss the result. the document we approved at the united nations was not a document to open up a debate on the un, but to implement a debate that had already been going on for two years. but we know that in august and september some difficult issues disappeared from the table, others were only reiterated in principle, and we stopped there, others were deferred to subsequent negotiations. that's the way it is. no reform of the security council, no progress in the relationship between disarmament and non-proliferation, no clear condemnation of terrorism but a vague definition of terrorism, a body like the human rights council exists only in terms of principle; even what has been presented as a great advance, namely the new right to protect rule, if you read it carefully, you realize that, having written in that document that the security council will assess it on a case by case basis, it means that we are as before rwanda. nothing has changed, we said there is a principle, but we will have to determine each time whether it applies in that case. what's all this? that although we have reiterated the millennium development goals, we have failed on one occasion. the document is a bit like our work in europe, we are not in crisis, the bureaucracy works, we produce documents. we produce thousands of decisions, but often they are decisions that the citizens do not expect from us and we are not able to produce the decisions that the citizens expect from us. that's our problem right there. a thirty-five page document that removes the most difficult points is not a successful document: it is a document which drowns its difficulties in quantity, and so the only thing i want to say is that this summit has instead shown how much we need today for europe to count as a political unit, as a single political unit where we weigh in trade terms because we have a single will. we have a role in the world, where we are divided into twenty-five, we have none or we have much less than we think. we are in the middle of a pause for reflection, after the referendum failures, let's not make this pause for reflection a mexican siesta, let's wake up a little earlier.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank you for your substantive and serious interventions in this debate concerning belarus and the state of its democracy and human rights. i take note of the points raised and will pass them on so that we can digest them seriously. i would also like to thank you for your support for the commission's work, including the opening of the commission office in minsk. as mr onyszkiewicz said, we cannot fail belarus; we cannot ignore it. i agree with the various speakers who are very concerned about the road belarus is still taking. i am also very concerned about the lack of focus on a strategic interest of europe, something which is all too common today. we should not, in our ongoing existential reflection, neglect the question as to how we can best enhance a stable zone of liberty and democracy in our south-eastern and eastern neighbourhood, be it for instance turkey or the western balkans, ukraine or belarus. this implies, inter alia, that we use to the maximum and further develop the policy tools that are available under the european neighbourhood policy. there were some specific questions addressed to the commissioner, and as i have said, i have passed them on to our services. however, i would like to make a point concerning the language question. why do we support broadcasting in both russian and belarusian? there is one simple fact which we have to take into account: 65% of the belarusian population speaks russian at home, while 5% speak belarusian at home. in order to get our message across, we have to take into account the fact that the majority of the belarusian population speaks russian at home. this is precisely why we have opted for broadcasting in both languages, russian and belarusian: russian for pragmatic reasons – that is what most people speak every day; belarusian for symbolic reasons – this is the language that heralds a new free belarus, which we are all in favour of. the voice of the european parliament and its support for our initiative adds tremendous weight to the european union's efforts to push for greater democratisation and respect for human rights in belarus. this has never been more essential than today, in the run-up to the elections, which if fairly conducted could be a turning point in the country's destiny.
thank you, mr. president, i speak for the new psi. too often in recent times this parliament has found itself discussing the behaviour of the belarusian government, the last bastion of communist authoritarianism on our continent. president lukashenko continues his illiberal action by stifling the voices of many people, especially young people, who are calling for a future of freedom for their nation. some basic rights of individuals are constantly and deliberately denied by the central government which is actually tightening the noose, preventing citizens from freely expressing their thoughts, their political ideology, their faith. minorities in the country are not sufficiently protected and are often subject to abuse and discrimination. all of this, intolerably, at the edge of our borders. we share the approach of president barroso and believe that the effort to increase the european union's presence in minsk must be accelerated: to distribute information, to carry out coordination and support functions and to monitor the situation, in particular with regard to respect for human rights. europe must have the capacity and the strength to initiate political action that can have an impact, including through closer synergy with the political opposition forces present who, with growing popular support, are fighting to ensure a different and better tomorrow for belarus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament can only benefit considerably from the work done by the rapporteur and by the other members of parliament in recent months on cooperation with india. we are moving towards a strategic partnership, which is bound to be consolidated in strong acts which we hope the commission, but also the european council, will adopt, and we, as the european parliament, must make a strong demand for an active role in matters of cooperation with the indian parliament. the rapporteur, mr menéndez del valle, has done a very good job, but it requires the continuing commitment of the european parliament. the measure we are voting on tomorrow is highly analytical and goes into great depth on many aspects of cooperation between the european union and india: the two largest democracies in the world, allied together to promote development and cooperation not only in the economic sector, but also in the social sector, to ensure a global balance. these two actors must be united in guaranteeing the rule of law, the rights of individuals and, i repeat, the need to protect the rights of workers. that is why it is important that, in order to work together with india towards a new balance of peace and development in all respects, an interparliamentary delegation be set up between the european union and india, and that there be annual meetings between the two parliamentary institutions, in short, to ensure that our parliament is constantly committed to all the points raised in the directive we are voting on tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr turmes for his work, for the work we have done together. the document is very important because it balances a situation of presumption in favour of centralised and concentrated energy production. there has been a considerable neglect of renewable energies, and now, finally, we can tackle the problem of rebalancing and thus devote to them the research effort they have not had and which they deserve for the indispensable contribution they can make to our energy needs. this is a contribution to ensuring sustainability, in that they are non-co2 emitting and co2 neutral, to energy independence, to job creation in the union, at such a difficult time, as we have seen today in the discussion on the oil document, and thanks to a technology in which we are at the forefront in the world. it will be an effort which will first of all have to give us precise information on the contribution that each source can make. i am sure that this contribution will be very important in the absolute sense, beyond the most daring expectations and also in the mode of diffused production, which will go in the direction of a great responsibility and a leap forward in energy efficiency, through the widespread adoption of electricity generation and simultaneous heating and cooling. this is the priority, because it is the concrete expression of our commitment. i would like to mention in particular the contribution of biomass, which in the process of conversion into gas will be able to produce hydrogen directly, and we know how important this is. other sources, such as wind power, have already made a considerable contribution, and others are extremely promising. that must be our commitment and i believe that with the turmes group we can still do a lot of work.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr turmes, for the excellent work we have done together. let there be no doubt: the vast majority of the scientific community is now convinced that greenhouse gas emissions are the main cause of the warming of the planet, and there is reasonable doubt that the increasing frequency and severity of recent natural disasters are related to this warming. the reduction of greenhouse gases requires a move beyond the oil age and towards alternative energy sources, starting with the first alternative source of energy savings. a policy of increasing efficiency and reducing waste can in fact yield over 20% of the savings in oil consumption in a few years, a marketable share could result from a massive use of renewable sources such as wind, solar and biomass. the european commission's green paper on energy is a good starting point, but to be effective it requires research programmes capable of simulating the development of sustainable and competitive energy systems, including through multiannual demonstration projects, for example here in the european parliament, and policies to support small and mediumsized enterprises investing in the sector. the massive investments will have to be matched by financial and fiscal incentives for alternative energy sources to build the necessary infrastructure, for example hydrogen, and for sustainable mobility. the european union has a key role to play, both in stimulating national policies and in implementing community directives: only through a coordinated effort at continental level can europe become a credible partner for global energy policies.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i will be brief, but i am not ignoring this problem, which is a major one. so i look forward to this debate. i am comforted by the conviction that effective control is fundamental. it is true that the behaviour of drivers, and especially young drivers, must be influenced as much as possible. we must also remember the importance of education from an early age and we must mobilise all our energies and pool all our resources to fight this scourge. this is of course a shared responsibility between the european union, our member states and our regions, but also by each and every one of us. i would simply like to say, echoing the ari vatanen report, that the three institutions of the union now seem to be converging towards the same objective: namely the will to move forward along this path. it is time, because we have gone from 50 000 deaths to 43 000 deaths in the 25 member states. we're a long way from where we set out to be. so we're going to have to redouble our efforts. on the council side, we will have an informal meeting in verona on 4 and 5 november on road safety. i also know that the austrian presidency will be doing a great deal to find new solutions. i am therefore glad that parliament feels so mobilised and i must say that, as regards the commission's commitment and my personal commitment, you can be sure that i will really make every possible effort to both convince the member states to commit themselves to much bolder policies and to examine what the european union, at its level, can bring and demand. that is why this report is timely and it is a signal for a reawakening of conscience on this subject which requires a firm and determined ethical attitude on the part of all of us.
the commission's statement on the textile sector is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the best thing to do in trade relations with china and the eastern markets in general is to stop playing an uneven game of arms which irreversibly damages european industry, today textiles, tomorrow manufacturing, automobiles, technology, and so on. the right trade relations must be based on mutual respect for common laws and this is not the case today: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. the agreement reached recently and the release of the goods in question cannot be a practical solution to the problems that have arisen. we need a radical change of course to bring about conditions of fairness and respect for common rules. perhaps a first step could be to look into the possibility of reinstating quotas and duties, at least temporarily to limit the damage, in addition to the traceability issue, the trademark issue. the commission is doing something about the inertia of the past. the text adopted last july on the protection of intellectual property and the fight against counterfeiting and piracy is certainly a start in the defence of our textile industries and our economy in general. it is in this direction, mr president, that the two amendments which will be put to the vote this morning, tabled by more than 40 members, and which i hope will be accepted in the lucas report, are heading: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to mr lucas' report, which i would like to thank for the excellent work he has done, i wanted to stress a fundamental aspect in the comparison between two major commercial areas: the need to respect the rules, which in the commercial field are the principles of the world trade organization and the agreements deriving from them, and in the political and social field are those relating to respect for fundamental human rights. hence the need for monitoring through permanent negotiations between the commission and the chinese authorities, in order to guarantee the principles of freedom and democracy, the respect of which must be an essential requirement in the conduct of china's trade relations with other economic areas. the latest news from china about heavy restrictions on internet use should also be considered carefully. the decision of the beijing government to announce new laws to control information on the internet in order to ban any possible criticism of religious policies and in general the widespread intolerance towards preaching of the faith are facts that can only increase our concern. in china, the degree of freedom and democracy is inversely proportional to its economic and commercial capacity to dominate world markets. we therefore call on the commission, in the framework of the permanent negotiations it intends to establish with the chinese authorities for a balanced and shared management of trade relations with the chinese mainland, to reflect on and take due account of all aspects relating to respect for the rights and freedoms of individuals and, consequently, of workers. we are calling for rules to ensure that goods coming from china meet the safety standards applied in europe and for sanctions to prevent trade with and within the union for several years for those who import goods into europe illegally or illegally. it is time to say that the damage to the development of fair competition is sometimes caused by unscrupulous european entrepreneurs who, thinking only of their own immediate profits, themselves violate a rule by promoting illegal imports and the illegal spread of counterfeit or otherwise dangerous goods in europe. we must be extremely strict with them. we also call on the commission and the council to ask the member states to increase controls on their territories in view of the large number of illegal immigrants forced to work in illegal facilities to produce low-cost goods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is unfair that on a subject of such importance the speeches of members belonging to groups should always be given priority over those of members who are not registered, for example: we already have speech limitations and can't vote at the group leader meeting. i think that is really undemocratic for all of us who are part of it, we are elected representatives of the people just like everyone else! when the commissioner speaks on such a subject not for two and a half minutes but for seven minutes, it is essential that each of us should speak, and i therefore completely disagree with the position expressed by the presidency.
i think it is hypocritical to talk today about immigration without discussing the double barrier that separates the enclave of melilla from africa, a barrier that symbolically represents the failure of our vision of building a europe of peace, social justice and intercultural coexistence. only two days ago, a delegation from our group was able to witness the barbarity of this place: a militarized border, a terrifying place that serves as a dividing line between hope and death. it is a reactionary utopia to think that the free movement of men and women can be curtailed by the barbed wire that separates two continents. it is selfish folly to create a physical barrier between a rich and welcoming europe and the unstoppable despair of those fleeing hunger and war and who, instead of being welcomed and helped, are shot by rubber bullets from the spanish civil guard and the moroccan army. the spanish government is partly responsible for the mass deportations carried out by the moroccan government and for the deaths of dozens of men in the desert. the accusations made by a number of non-governmental organizations operating in ceuta and melilla are serious in this respect, and i call on behalf of my group for the immediate establishment of a committee of inquiry to ascertain responsibility and the truth about what happened in ceuta and melilla and about the way in which migrants are received in europe. it is not acceptable, either politically or legally, or morally or humanly, that mass expulsions are being carried out from european territory. the migrants who only crossed the first barrier of melilla, without being able to cross the second, were expelled from european territory, without any kind of recognition, without their origin being ascertained and without verifying whether they had the opportunity to enjoy the right to refugee status. the commission's behaviour in relation to what has happened is unacceptable. it is not enough to preach the protection of human rights, but it is also the behaviour of the three monkeys: the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. spain has acted like italy when it carried out mass deportations from lampedusa to libya, leaving migrants stranded in the desert. it is regrettable that the council is today talking about closer cooperation with libya when it would be appropriate to impose on that country ratification of the geneva convention. but this is not talked about. the situation in lampedusa and libya, which was considered a very serious anomaly, is now becoming a regular occurrence. this parliament, which condemned italy and its government for the criminal act of deportation to libya, must now show its consistency, which is why we are asking the groups which voted with us on the lampedusa resolution to draw up a resolution condemning the events in ceuta and melilla. we cannot accept the principle that europe grants the rights guaranteed by international and community treaties only to the strongest and most fortunate migrants who have also managed to cross the second barrier, since these rights cannot be regulated by a mechanism of natural selection. this would lead europe to become, as hobbes says, a state of nature. the right to host must be an inalienable right. the camp in melilla is given a decent and humane reception, unfortunately unlike that in lampedusa. we have been able to ascertain - as confirmed by a report in the most important italian weekly - that human rights are being systematically violated in lampedusa. we believe that europe cannot be built with barriers and barbed wire: we must try to open our borders to ensure that europe has a future and a hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still pretending not to see and not to understand that the policy of closing the frontiers and blocking the invasion of illegal immigrants is the only policy that cuts the nails off of human traffickers. the left only talks about human rights, without proposing the necessary measures to be taken against those who traffic in illegal immigrants, uprooting millions of people from their land. we'd like to hear that from human rights advocates. lampedusa is being talked about as if it were guantanamo. this is simply ridiculous and, as one of the members of the european parliament who went to lampedusa, i can say that i personally heard it said: "it's too clean, there's something wrong", because the reception centers in other parts of europe are all much dirtier and more messy. the italian government must therefore be acknowledged for spending tens of billions of its taxpayers' money on lampedusa, where medical care is provided 24 hours a day, unlike what happens to european citizens. it is shameful that certain newspapers are trying to tarnish the work of the italian volunteers and carabinieri, who are an example to all of europe for the way they behave in lampedusa and at sea in rescuing illegal immigrants. this is what the gentlemen on the left should be looking for, rather than pretending to ignore what the zapatero government is doing, which is shooting at illegal immigrants.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i know him well now, i am prepared to understand mr catania's exaggerations, emphasis and fantasies - all of them negative, of course. i would ask mr watson to inform himself before he speaks about the behaviour of the italian government, and in that way avoid saying stupid things in this house. in any case, mr president, in the light of the recent events in ceuta and melilla, i hope that there will finally be a full awareness in all the member states that illegal immigration is a european problem and that strict and concerted action on immigration can no longer be postponed for even a second. i am pleased to note that the commission intends to allocate considerable resources for the management of migration flows between 2007 and 2013 in order to strengthen the european area of freedom, security and justice, by providing for concrete measures to combat immigration and promote integration. i hope that the sums allocated to strengthening the external borders and to the creation of a european refugee fund and a european return fund will also consider the possibility of strengthening the collection centres on the model of lampedusa, which the left has unfairly criticised. unfortunately, i do not have time to dwell on what comrade zapatero has done in recent days, on which the left has not expressed itself with the same vehemence, except in a few rare cases. italy, which already spends exorbitant sums on the repatriation of illegal immigrants, can no longer shoulder the burden and costs of these waves of migration on its own. community funding is needed to strengthen and establish new centres and to encourage cooperation with the countries of origin, which is the most effective instrument to avoid cases like lampedusa, which is too often overcrowded to be managed. for this reason, and in conclusion, we must warmly thank the workers at the lampedusa centre - the civilians, the police, the carabinieri, the religious and the volunteers - for the humanity, professionalism and sacrifice they demonstrate every day. it is nevertheless to be appreciated, and i thank you, mr president, that parliament has wanted to devote this space - which is not scheduled - to such an important and sensitive subject.
mr president, i would like to thank the representative of the council and especially of the commission and we look forward to working with mr fratini tomorrow. what we are experiencing today was already described and accurately predicted over 35 years ago by the think tank known as the club of rome and its leader, mr aurelio peccei. he said, "south will rise against north, and it's done". there is no effective national policy that is sustainable, even if security or human-respect measures must be taken, or if some prevention attempts are made here and there. the time has therefore come to make migration policy an urgent european priority. we therefore propose the setting up of a europe-africa-mediterranean conference. it could be held jointly, or even under the joint authority of the un and the european union. it should develop at their level a two-part emergency marshall plan. firstly, we must have the means to deal humanely, from the point of view of hunger, from the point of view of health, from the point of view of protecting life, with refugees who die in the desert or who are shot when they try to cross forbidden areas, or who drown in the atlantic or the mediterranean, for such things exist. but secondly and above all, there is an urgent need to mobilise the international financial institutions to create jobs in the countries of the south, and in particular to stabilise young people who want to work and stay at home. a fundamental effort is needed in the field of education policy and economic stabilization to prevent these populations from migrating. we must stop subsidies which will in any case lead to corruption; the two international bodies, the un-europe and, of course, the third, the organization of african unity, must address this problem without delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important subject, but one which is being discussed by some in a controversial way. there are two lines: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the other is to be found in national events, in the press and in political action. i agree with what the council and, in other words, the commission have said. i have been to lampedusa with all my colleagues from the libe committee and i will go to all the other european centres we decide to visit. but there are some aspects which i do not think should be emphasized. i also share the position of mrs buitenweg and, partly - sometimes - that of mr catania, but i do not share his attitude when he speaks of deportation from italy or journalistic action, which can certainly do anything but serve such an important cause. mr president, this problem must concern the whole union. someone referred just now to a planetary problem. there is currently no european union policy on immigration and some countries are not able to deal with the problem on their own. italy and spain are big countries - spain even has the army - and some countries, like italy, have outposts in the middle of the sea, like lampedusa. but other countries - like malta, with a population of just 400,000 - are facing enormous pressure and are not able to cope. we can therefore talk about lampedusa all we want, we can exploit it as we please - and i am referring to mrs catania - but lampedusa remains a small island in the middle of the sea, with only 5,000 inhabitants, which is not able to cope with the situation or to create a 'hilton hotel' for the thousands and thousands of people who arrive on the spot. we should thank, as did mr borghezio and mr la russa, all those who are working on the island, including the friends of malta who are also doing everything possible. we shall be going to malta in january. mr president, it is important to define a policy on this matter once and for all, which is the policy of the council presidency, but it must be taken seriously. the council must take responsibility for this and the commission must make a concrete proposal. we must establish a common immigration policy - and i conclude, mr president - because, in addition to the human facts, in addition to the needy, hungry and working people, other aspects must also be taken into account, such as boatmen, human traffickers but above all the terrorists who can infiltrate and take advantage of these situations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in all honesty we would have expected more from the council's words. first of all, greater clarity, because immigration requires common and coordinated measures for european policy, which are focused not on the need and the means to defend oneself against migrants, but above all on the ability to guarantee respect for the human rights of migrants, their human dignity and sharing among the member states. this policy requires above all courage and truth, so let me dwell on a reticence which i consider particularly serious in the minister's speech, in which he did not offer a single reference, a single word, to what has happened in recent days in lampedusa. i therefore have four quick questions for the minister and the council. is the council aware that the lampedusa temporary accommodation centre has been turned into a detention centre, a place where there are no rights and where harassment and violence are the order of the day? is the council aware that an official delegation from this parliament was mocked by the italian government, which had the centre evacuated the day before our visit? is the british minister aware that his italian counterpart, mr castelli, minister for justice, has hastily dismissed this morning what happened in lampedusa as a useless piece of garbage invented by journalists? finally, is the council aware that the current cooperation agreements with libya provide not only for border surveillance but also for the internment of non-community nationals who are rejected and deported to unidentified refugee camps in the libyan desert? we're waiting for answers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i could say that we need a policy at european level and if i stop here, we have said all we need to say. we share the proposals for the future and the initiatives taken in recent months by vice-president frattini on the subject of illegal immigration, asylum policy and the fight against the trafficking of illegal immigrants. we are very concerned to learn that italy, france and spain have decided to be represented in the council not by the minister of the interior but by other ministers, whereas this should have been a major concern at that level of ministers. as a member of parliament i intend to put pressure on the council, because the image of the river of migrants storming the enclave of ceuta and melilla is symbolic of a demographic and political relationship of our future. as a member of parliament, i too denounce the manipulation of the truth that took place during the visit of the libe delegation to the centre of lampedusa and the unworthy behaviour denounced by the press. you will have the support of parliament, commission friends, if you proceed more quickly. there is no pause for thought on immigration in europe. time is running out and politics has a duty to take action on the needs of men and the urgency of their need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my condolences for the illegal immigrants who have died, but i also express my solidarity with the local authorities and the people of those countries, cities and border regions of europe which are daily affected by the flows of immigrants. to stop the invasion, we must remove the illusion that people enter europe clandestinely and remain clandestine or perhaps even regularised. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i thank mr zapatero and his socialist government for demonstrating to other comrades and other governments that it is the responsibility of those who govern to ensure the legality and well-being of their people. thank you comrades if you finally have the conscience to defend your country from an illegal invasion. thank you for defending the law and social order which all members of parliament, primus inter pares, hold and must uphold.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is, along with the fight against terrorism, one of the great emergencies of the new millennium. the events that are repeated above all in southern europe show that the union is not tackling this epochal phenomenon with sufficient determination. too many people think that this is a problem that only affects italy, spain or malta. it's not like that. europe has a duty to take political and economic responsibility for what happens along the mediterranean coast, because it is the southern external border of the union. the union cannot therefore remain deaf to this call, but must increase its initiatives to deal with the immigration emergency. that is why it is not enough to deal with the matter with the inevitable and necessary public policy initiatives in mind. while these are important, much more is needed. we need agreements with the countries of origin, we need to develop the process started in barcelona and we need to increase investment and development initiatives. that is why we are increasingly convinced that immigration must be one of the competences of the union of tomorrow. the words of commissioner figel and the initiatives of mr frattini give us hope. as regards the events of the past few days, we cannot but strongly denounce what has happened in ceuta and melilla. the zapatero government has not shown itself to be up to the task, it has not been able to deal with an emergency by respecting the human rights of the immigrants pushing to the borders. we don't want to see scenes like the ones on tv these last few days: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, any link between what happened in ceuta and melilla and what is happening in lampedusa is absolutely unacceptable. the italian government, the police and the ngos have not killed anyone, nor have they deported anyone to the desert, but they continue to save the lives of dozens and dozens of immigrants every day, victims of unscrupulous merchants and sellers of dreams that turn into dramas instead.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, the decision of the iranian authorities to suspend negotiations with the three european negotiating countries is worrying. i would like to state at once and unequivocally that we exclude any military solution to this crisis. in this connection, we call on the us administration itself to get involved in these negotiations, as it has done with some success in the case of north korea. we are concerned about this different attitude of the united states, partly because many of iran's concerns about its security stem from the attitude of the united states, its policy in the region and the pressure it exerts, including militarily, on military bases in areas bordering iran. for its part, iran must suspend any activity aimed at obtaining nuclear weapons for military purposes; it is a matter of urgency that the european union should do so because it is a signatory to the non-proliferation treaty and has undertaken to apply the additional protocol to it. we therefore fully support the resolution of the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency, which instructed its president, professor elbaradei - who has now been rightly awarded the nobel peace prize - to continue to pursue the negotiating process. we also welcome the european council resolution of 3 october. our agreement is not at all formal, because we consider these guidelines to be particularly wise. in fact, as is well known and as the iranian authorities are well aware and as the minister has also mentioned, this matter is the responsibility of the united nations security council. the decision not to initiate a procedure that could lead to escalation is therefore a choice that gives even more strength to the negotiating process, offering iran an opportunity that should not be missed. for the sake of clarity, it should be stressed that iran, like any country in the world, has the right to acquire nuclear capability for civilian purposes, and this is clear both in the resolution of the international atomic energy agency and in our resolution. i would like to conclude with an appeal to the council on the issue of human rights, which we have all raised. in our resolution we have referred to the cases you mentioned, mr minister. i would encourage the commission and the council to continue this policy of dialogue, never separating human rights issues from other trade agreements with iran.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the resolution on which we are to speak tomorrow is a resolution of openness and dialogue, a resolution which represents a europe which believes in politics as the art of combining vision and reality. it is very important today to reaffirm the centrality of the international atomic energy agency to ensure that there are no military developments in iran's nuclear programmes. but it is equally crucial to send a clear message to the commission, to the governments of the member states and to the international community: the european peoples, represented by this parliament, want the iranian case to be handled with a commitment to leave the door to negotiation open. we must also recognize tehran's legitimate security concerns and identify iran's essential role as a regional power. however, we must be equally clear and determined in rejecting any kind of compromise on the serious violations of human rights that still exist, especially in the area of freedom of expression, the rights of women and minorities, where we are still far from the certainty of the rule of law. this resolution must be seen by tehran as a clear and frank call for the continuation of the negotiations and must also serve as a useful way of involving the other major player in this delicate dossier, namely the united states of america. as we are reminded every day in iraq, the use of force, unilateralism and regime change imposed by arms are the perfect ingredients for a foretold disaster. only a determined and transparent multilateral effort will create the conditions for iran to no longer appear merely as a danger but, on the contrary, as an essential player which cannot be ignored for the stabilization of the most strategic region in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like very much to make known to the whole of europe what happened to me last monday, 10 october 2005, when i was giving telephone information to pensioners on a private italian television network. a pensioner from genoa called and said she had a reversibility pension. her voice broke as she began to cry, but she later resumed by saying that since she had not received her pension for that month, she did not know how she would make a living. i then remembered an incident in london where a pensioner, having not received her pension in her post box, since it had been removed by the british post office, was found dead a few months later because she could no longer collect her pension. mr president, how long will governments of all political persuasions in europe continue to regard pensioners as pieces of paper or dried branches rather than as people who breathe, live, have worked and therefore deserve respect from everyone?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the new strategy for africa proposed by the commission deserves the support of this parliament. it is true that for the first time the question of development in africa is being tackled on multiple, interconnected levels in a long-term plan. it is to be hoped that this innovative approach will be strongly supported by the union's governments at the european council in december. we all know that achieving most of the millennium development goals, particularly in sub-saharan africa, requires a convergent commitment to development aid and effective complementarity in all types of intervention. not only must the amount of aid be increased - i agree with commissioner michel - but much greater efficiency must also be achieved. this can only be achieved within the framework of a european consensus capable of placing each bilateral relationship within a coherent overall framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is even more important to include aid and development policies, beyond national interests, and i would draw the commission's attention to this point within the principle of appropriation, including budgetary aid: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but among these conditions is that of a fairer world trade system, and here is where a test for europe, a test for parliament and the commission, is looming: development policy cannot be separated from policy concerning the world trade system. i hope that europe will play its full part in the forthcoming hong kong conference, especially on the issues which are decisive for the african continent's ownership of development policies, such as the question of tariffs, tariffs and export subsidies. finally, i would add that this parliament has a special role to play in the face of a european public opinion which is often inclined to think that the situation in africa is hopeless. that is not the case and we must make it clear: africa is a resource for us too.
i would like to express my sympathy with the death of two african union soldiers in darfur. i think this is another example of how we often focus on certain issues and then drop them. i should like to say, however, that i would also like to hear a reference to the passage in recent days of thousands of people from sub-saharan africa, who find fences and nets, often rubber bullets or even real bullets, and people wandering in the desert without food. in my view, the question of immigration must be closely linked to the problems of development. i think the work done by the commission, and in particular by mr louis michel, is extremely important and necessary. as mr zani has already said, i believe that it is essential to achieve coordination of development policies, not only in africa but also in general. i really believe that the council, parliament and the commission must work together in this respect, because very often - as mr zani said - it is the member states that actually take the lead. that is why it is so essential that the european union should speak with one voice. as the european union is not the only major donor in africa, the presence and policies of international institutions such as the world bank and the international monetary fund, whose decisions have such an impact on the lives of indigenous peoples and on the millennium development goals, should also be strengthened. as we have seen, debt cancellation is an essential fact, although for the debtor countries it was really only a first step. we must therefore also ensure that within this new policy we fight for a different definition of debt sustainability and consider the financial needs of african countries as an essential element. as mentioned in the document, civil society and national parliaments should also be more involved in the preparation of the country strategy paper. the french presidency has been very active in this area. but the problem of security must also be understood in terms of human security and not just the tragedies that have followed 9/11. i believe that in our policies we must take account of security and peace, which, for example, respect the definitions of official development aid. we are often responsible for the conflicts in africa, especially when we consider that we continue to sell arms. so, there must be very strict control in this area too. other colleagues have referred to trade, which is certainly a fundamental instrument, but which must not be limited to aid for trade but must be fair and supportive.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the paths and trails are very rough. i myself attended the elections, observing voters taking part in a very important democratic process, which was shaken up by adverse circumstances. i would like to congratulate the commission on the role it played on this occasion and i thank not only the representative of the european union in ethiopia, tim clarke, whom i greet with a special 'thank you' for his outstanding role, but also mrs ana gomes for the great wisdom she displayed in that situation. it's very easy to shout and denounce, whereas i think it's much harder to try to manage a process like the one in ethiopia, which is extremely complex. i commend the commission for its role in promoting dialogue and cooperation by putting pressure on all the forces involved: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, it is always the stronger side, and therefore the ethiopian government, that bears the greatest responsibility. it is important, however, to continue in the direction of cooperation and dialogue, to try to make the democratic process real.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this report is full of good suggestions. i hope that as many of these as possible will be implemented. i would like to emphasize only two points: vocational training and mobility. the first is vocational training. let me tell you a story. an italian education official boasted to me that his region had the highest percentage of high school graduates. i asked him two questions. first, what are all these people doing with the sat? and the second question was whether it would be difficult to find, for example, craftsmen if there were faulty pipes in the household. he said, "yes, both are big problems". many of these young people were unemployed or had been "parked" in universities for years. and practitioners, professionals with craftsmanship skills are hard to find in his region. this is an example of the wrong educational policy in many parts of europe. vocational training is being seriously neglected in many places. the result is that we have a lot of young unemployed people on the one hand and a great shortage of skilled workers on the other. secondly, the mobility. it is complained that only 1.5% of workers in europe are in another eu country. the second type of training is the apprenticeship and the migrant years, which were already in use in the middle ages. these should be revived. the impulses of socrates and erasmus have been successful among european students and university students. there is still a lot to be done to get the apprentices and trainees, the trainees and young professionals moving. but if we have to say how halfheartedly and negligently the commission has prepared for the european year of mobility 2006, and if we know how much effort and difficulty it took in the last few days to get just 4 million euros in the budget committee for this special initiative, then something is wrong here. i am afraid that there is no real initiative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mr miguel portas, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the integration of immigrants in europe through schools and multilingual education [2004/2267 (ini) ] (a6-0243/2005).
i think all the speeches were extremely stimulating. i would also point out that the union's statistics also show that in large european cities, out of an average of 20 pupils per class, 12 or 13 belong to 10 different ethnic groups. multilingualism is therefore, even from a practical point of view, a rather complex matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the new challenges facing the circus as an integral part of european culture [2004/2266 (ini) ] (a6-0237/2005)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the subject of 'women and poverty in the european union' (2004/2217 (ini)) (a6-0273/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 october, at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
this court is adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of this parliament, some of us have devoted special attention to the urban dimension, first and foremost our colleague jean marie beaupuy. this was before the urban intergroup was set up, which he chaired and of which i am a member, and which is working very well. i thank the commissioner for having promptly shared the approach of our work and for having encouraged it. we have just heard yet another example of this sharing in the house. parliament is obviously called upon today to make an additional commitment - which i feel i can make, also on behalf of mr beaupuy - to increase its presence and to avoid dangerous backsliding by the council. the latter would only undermine the role of cities, which in my view is essential in cohesion policy and which is in fact a fundamental pillar of it. cities are the main actors in regional policy, because they are the focus of the most complex problems, such as social exclusion and pollution, but also, at the same time, the place where the future of the whole surrounding area is being built, as i have also tried to say, as shadow rapporteur on the erdf regulation. the driving force behind a good investment programme and the management of funds for cities can and must be the economic and socio-cultural revival of the surrounding suburbs and rural areas, especially in the light of the latest enlargement of the union. that is why i believe that we must now make even greater efforts on this subject, starting with the acquisitions, which are already the heritage of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the urban dimension is the dimension of the present and the near future of human life. eighty percent of the world's population will be concentrated in the densely urbanized areas of the planet, approaching the ecumenopolis theorized by geographer doxiadis in the early 1970's. another internationally renowned geographer, jean gottmann, has described the spread of another settlement and functional model of the urban region the megalopolis of which the urban nebulae of the us atlantic coast, southern china and japan are currently emblematic examples. other urban gigantism phenomena are in full development on the california coast, in india between delhi and calcutta, but also in europe, along the rhine axis of the ruhr, which runs from germany to the netherlands, and in the area of the italian industrial triangle milan-genoa-turin. i shall stop here because the list of examples would be too long. these are huge demographic hotbeds of cultures and social groups, often highly differentiated, also characterized by a high degree of artificiality, in constant energy and environmental imbalance, with exasperating problems of communication, water supply, social tensions and crime. for these artificial ecosystems which unlike natural closed systems are configured as open systems, sustainability should therefore focus on a number of priorities: reduction of waste generation and high recycling of resources; efficient horizontal size planning, which depends on what the city produces and how it does it, but also on how the city relates to other urban units and to the peri-urban or rural territory. the beaupuy report rightly emphasizes the importance of urban partnership networks, including transregional and crossborder ones, because the scale of the problems is spatially diffused and only an integrated approach to investment and administration - which we could call the large urban basin - can effectively address the problems. we must find a way of preventing the transition from a 'mega-city' to a 'necropolitan' reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i am the mayor of tolfa - a beautiful town north of rome - and in this capacity i have also seen the immense power that the aggregation and integration of citizens in an urban reality can have on economic development and the social dimension. our cities are home to an increasing variety of realities - different nationalities, different needs, problems at different levels - and are a miniature mirror of what is happening at the macroeconomic level on the territory of our union. i am therefore aware of how much any action aimed at promoting integration and social, economic and environmental development has a positive impact on citizens, which then becomes an added value for the european union. every small success, in fact, only creates more mature, more open and more european citizens, able to understand the challenges they face and to continue on the path started in lisbon. a hand extended to the cities of the new member states is therefore an indispensable instrument for creating the equality that the eu strives for all its member states, so that all friction and disparities can finally be overcome, in the name of the single project of a europe that is particularly attentive to the problems of minorities and the most disadvantaged social groups in the most backward regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's wide-ranging debate on mr beaupuy's report and, above all, the commissioner's very full and meaningful speech, are shaping the new european city in this house today, also taking account of enlargement. it is important to stress and remind ourselves that 78% of the population of europe live in cities, 50% of whom live in high-density areas and 26% in medium-density areas. cities are thus the living environment of the majority of the inhabitants of the european union. we have recently seen a certain underestimation of the importance of the urban dimension in cohesion policy, and this report completely changes an approach which we could not share. it should not be forgotten that, especially within the europe of the fifteen, there is also the so-called 'pentagon', that is to say an area connecting london, paris, milan, berlin and hamburg, where a large part of the european economy and population is concentrated. the idea of the pentagon is of course strongly opposed to the concept of territorial question, as enshrined in the treaty adopting a constitution for europe, stressing that cities - especially medium and small ones - are the key players in regional development and in the achievement of the objectives of gothenburg and lisbon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's urban policy is not distorted by the new member states. so social problems - territorial segregation, crime, lack of housing and unemployment - are the fundamental problems we must tackle and continue to solve, given that the urban programme is no longer one of the community projects of our european union.
in writing. we cannot agree with the position of iran, which is calling for 'harder measures' if the nuclear issue is referred to the un security council and even for a step back from the commitments it has made on this sensitive subject. the concerns about the use of nuclear weapons by a country that is a leader in islamic fundamentalism are certainly well founded. but this must not prevent us from recognizing the right of every people - and therefore also of the iranian people - to develop their economic and technological potential to the full and to defend their territory. from this point of view, europe cannot ignore the geopolitical facts of the matter, namely that, east of iran, countries such as china, north korea, russia, india and, last but not least, pakistan not only possess nuclear weapons but also have the means to use them at a distance.
mr president, i thank the honourable members for having listened to my explanation of vote on the urban dimension report. i address the 20 million pensioners - former workers and therefore pensioners - living in italy, as well as the 150 million pensioners who have worked in europe and live in all 25 member states of the european union, and i wish to reassure them of my intention to insist - through this declaration of vote - that the european parliament calls on the member states to allow the use of public urban transport completely free of charge by pensioners who deserve the recognition of society for the work they have done. the young people will be happy not only to give up their seats but also to know that the elderly pensioners are being respected by the right to use public transport free of charge in our beautiful cities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to pay a compliment to mrs doris pack. if we want to bring europe together, the most likely way is through education. the aim is to promote the exchange of knowledge and skills between european countries, to facilitate encounters between citizens of different cultures and to support the learning of languages, especially those of neighbours. i particularly welcome the attempt to bring the different measures together, the fact that the balkan countries are also eligible for funding and that initiatives for political education should also be explicitly supported. the following points, in my view, still need to be improved: greater consideration of the socially disadvantaged and simplification of procedures, noting that not all difficulties are eu-related. i have had the experience, in the concrete projects i have carried out, that the problems in one's own country are often worse than at eu level. what i do not agree with is the reduction in the leonardo programme. i am against a reduction in funding for vocational training. the fact that practical education is more expensive than purely theoretical education cannot be a reason to cut funds here. it is dishonest and inconsistent to declare 2006 the european year of vocational mobility and cut the funding at the same time.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to thank mrs hieronymi for her excellent work. the audiovisual heritage is undoubtedly a useful tool for consolidating our common historical identity and for understanding the different cultures to which we belong, a foundation for building european citizenship. it is no coincidence that in some national contexts the cinematographic product is already normatively recognised as a cultural good. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal in amendment no 71 to set up a network of databases covering the european audiovisual heritage. in this connection, madam commissioner, i should like to point out that in this house, during the debate on the hegvi report on the preservation of the cinematographic heritage on 9 may, i put forward the proposal for a european thematic film library to ensure a careful selection of cinematographic works relating to historical events and events relating to the evolution of the community project. another sensitive point is that of financing: the need to address the chronic undercapitalisation of the sector by facilitating access to credit for the audiovisual industry and allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from special financial services. i therefore welcome amendments nos 10 and 59 by my colleague. i am sure that at the present stage of the union's development, the proposal to commit financial resources of eur 1.5 billion over the period 2007-2013 is the minimum necessary to achieve the objectives of the programme. it is also important to encourage the development of new talent; i therefore vote in favour of amendment no 56 by the rapporteur, which seeks to establish a scholarship for young talents named after pier paolo pasolini. finally, i propose that the commission should undertake an evaluation of the pilot projects carried out and their dissemination if successful experiences are found, with regard to the use of new technologies, as suggested by the itre committee.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members for their very positive contribution. the european cinema has, it is true, several dimensions. it has an economic dimension. it is clearly one of the cultural industries that brings something positive to the important industrial competitiveness that is in the lisbon strategy. but it is not just a commercial industry; it is also a cultural one because it is enriched by cultural diversity. it is the stories of europeans that must be told by europeans. these are european dreams which must be put on film by europeans. it is all cultural diversity that must find its way into our cinemas, which is why the commission is keen to invest in cultural diversity and help it to function. i will not repeat the comments made by the members here, mr president, because i agree with them almost completely. i would like to return to two points which i did not mention in the introduction. first of all, i agree with all those who have said that digital is of major importance: digital is an opportunity for diversity, because once installed, it will make it possible to circulate films much more easily and at lower cost. secondly, the choice of languages will be much easier than with the analogue system of today. i therefore believe that digital technology is an opportunity for our film industries and for the knowledge of each other's cultures in europe. this is one of the reasons why the media 2007 programme wants to go further in this direction. i was very moved by the remarks made on the protection of young people. i want you to know that protecting young people in the media is one of my highest priorities. it is also included in special recommendations and in the television without frontiers directive, which is currently being revised. the demands of the parliamentarians for the protection of young people against possible abuse are therefore taken into account. i was also very sensitive to the comments of others on the new countries and on countries with lower production capacity or with a restricted language area. i am not speaking to you here only as commissioner, but also as a luxembourg national. every time a film is made in luxembourgish - and there are many - i am proud and moved. i would like all the restricted linguistic areas to be able to produce films in their own language, even though the market for such films is, it must be admitted, very limited. we must therefore give greater support to these limited linguistic areas, and we are doing so in the media programme. there is another point which i think i made in the committee on culture, but which i would like to reiterate here in the plenary: my proposal for positive discrimination in favour of the new countries, which need more targeted aid, enabling them to really benefit from the media programme, was unanimously approved by the council of ministers. all the ministers, even those who were to give a portion of their cake to help others, agreed. this is europe as we like it. this is the europe of solidarity, and i am glad that the members of parliament have further strengthened this aspect of solidarity with their amendments. we need cinema in diversity, including in territories with limited production capacity and limited linguistic area, because these parts of our europe also participate in the european patchwork of cultures. we need everyone, big languages, big countries, small languages, small countries, because there are no big and small. there are only great cultures, big and small, and i'm proud to be a part of this patchwork of diversity.
the agenda includes the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on shipments of waste [15311/4/2004 - c6-0223/2005 - 2003/0139 (cod)) (rapporteur: johannes blokland) (a6-0287/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the export of waste to countries where, because of economic or political pressure, it is possible to accumulate rather than actually dispose of what is left over from the consumption of the wealthier societies is a well-known and even ancient fact. the failure of the more developed countries to recycle has also produced paradoxical situations of economic dependence on certain resources. an example is that of ferrous metals. this was done first to eastern europe and then to developing countries. the latter have been able to create new wealth from waste, although often with serious damage to the environment. the blokland report is rightly concerned about the ecological compatibility of waste traffic, which cannot and should not be managed on the basis of free trade: the groundwater, surface water and atmosphere do not know administrative or state boundaries, because the planet does not function in watertight compartments. the report is a step forward in limiting, if not eliminating, eco-foodstuffs, in improving the notification of the hazards of transported waste, in improving environmentally friendly disposal processes and in respecting the principle of the sovereignty of each country, ensuring the right of everyone to receive or not to receive waste.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to members’ comments and i would like to give you my further reactions to the proposed amendments. the commission was very pleased to see the importance which the european parliament’s committee on the environment attaches to the environmental consequences of end-of-life ships and ship recycling and we fully share the concerns expressed by the committee. however, the proposed amendments would, in our view, not be the right way forward for the following reasons. work is currently being done to address these issues within the fora of the international maritime organization, the international labour organization and the basel convention on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous waste. progress has been made within the imo towards an international agreement on the subject. it would therefore be appropriate to agree at international level on the solutions to these important problems before changing our internal european union regulation. on the other hand, we would support a recital referring to the work of the relevant international fora, in line with the council’s conclusions on ship dismantling of 24 june 2005. we could therefore fully support the compromise proposal on this point. in addition, there are a number of amendments concerning further restrictions on the free movement of waste for recovery which would, in the commission’s view, not correspond to the objective of creating clearer and better regulation. the commission, on this basis, could not accept the proposed amendments 4, 27, 30, 31, 33, 37, 54, 56 and 68. the commission maintains its statement with regard to article 12(1)(c) in the common position to which amendment 31 is linked. however, we could support the compromise proposal on other points. the question has been raised of coherence between the waste shipment regulation and the waste framework directive, which is now coming up for review. we can confirm that we will ensure that full coherence is maintained between this regulation and the planned revision of the waste framework directive and, of course, we will ensure consistency with regard to definitions in the thematic strategy on waste. with regard to animal by-products, the commission’s proposal fulfils the same environmental objectives as amendment 91. our objective is to ensure that the necessary environmental safeguards are in place for the shipment of animal by-products. therefore, our proposal says that the stricter of the two regulations should apply. however, the commission does not want both regulations to apply at the same time to the same shipment and therefore we cannot accept amendment 91. in conclusion, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept 87 of the 113 proposed amendments, fully or in principle. these proposed amendments include strengthening the enforcement of the regulation, clarification of its provisions and further alignment with the basel convention. i will provide parliament’s secretariat with a complete list of the commission’s positions on the amendments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. annexed position of the commission annex position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept the following amendments in full: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the following amendments are acceptable in principle: the following table shows the number of the member states which have adopted the euro: the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 5, 9, 11, 27, 30, 31, 33, 37, 54, 56, 68, 81, 86, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101. should the compromise package be adopted, the commission could also accept new amendments 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113.
the agenda includes the recommendation by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases [16056/5/2004 - c6-0221/2005 - 2003/0189a(cod) ] (a6-0301/2005) and the recommendation by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on emissions from air conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec [1618/42/2004 - c6-0222/2005 - 2003/0189cod] (a6-029/2005)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mrs doyle for the report and also for the debate. we must combat global warming because of the enormous impact it has on the environment. i would just like to remind you - as we see in the press every day - of the worsening of extreme events: more intense rainfall and longer droughts. the european union has taken this issue as central to sustainable development which, in turn, is one of the fundamental principles for the union: the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. the more complex the molecule, the more intense the greenhouse effect. organofluorides belong to this category and should be taken seriously. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the environment, but also of the environment. the global warming potential as a whole must therefore be minimised: gas and equipment. if the emissions trading method works as it works i think it would be appropriate to first apply a kind of internal emissions trading in the systems where this method is used, first minimizing the effects of the gas and equipment and analyzing the costs and benefits. the systems i'm referring to are mobile air conditioners, for example, stationary air conditioners and the gas+energy system to run the equipment. gas is used as a fire extinguisher and, together with fire, as a source of greenhouse gases, evaluating both the gas and the emission from the fire. it is therefore necessary to avoid prescriptive, obsessive attention to detail and to aim at minimising the overall greenhouse effect. there are irreplaceable gases, such as sulphur hexafluoride, which are therefore exceptions, since vital equipment depends on these gases.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which has the merit, first of all, of bringing the intent of our legislation closer to the parameters we committed ourselves to respect in kyoto. i have already said in the committee on the environment that i think it is necessary to depart from certain positions which seem to pursue only partial objectives and which risk producing far more disastrous results, both for the environment and for the economies of many member states. firstly, as regards the problem of the legal basis, the transition to article 175 may distort the concept of the single market, since it allows individual member states to apply more restrictive requirements and measures. the choice of article 175 as a legal basis could lead to the paradox that some countries may decide to ban the use of sf6 and then resort to the current alternatives which are more polluting and less safe than fluorinated gases. we must not forget that the purpose of the regulation is to limit the emission of fluorinated gases and not to prohibit them. any ban, and i refer in particular to articles 7 and 8, should be preceded by an assessment of the economic impact and the environmental benefit. it is useless - and i repeat this - to cause significant economic damage to countries which base part of their economies on the responsible use of these gases, without any appreciable environmental benefits being achieved and in some cases even worsening the damage situation. there is no point in resorting to bans that cannot offer viable scientific alternatives when at the moment it would be sufficient to reduce emissions. it is useless to hinder harmonization when this operation also puts safety at work at risk. fluorinated gases are highly energy efficient, non-flammable and non-toxic and can be handled and operated safely by the appropriate personnel. it is statistically proven that alternative solutions have caused many deaths in the workplace. a responsible use approach, with the same rules for all member states, has the clear value of a mutually successful solution. this reduces the energy costs associated with the high level of safety guaranteed and benefits the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions to an absolute minimum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is often a great deal of confusion and demagogy about the harmful effects of human activities on the environment, both in the sense of 'denial' of this responsibility and in the tiresome pursuit of its affirmation, which has hitherto been supported by scientific arguments which have not been accepted unequivocally. in any case, it is certainly more certain that the gases we are discussing have a destructive effect on ozone molecules than the supposed increase in the average temperature of the atmosphere due to the higher concentrations of carbon dioxide. on the whole, therefore, the doyle report can be supported, although there are some points on which i cannot agree. one of these is amendment no 38, which proposes a ban on fluorocarbon in the semiconductor industry, which seems to have used it to a very limited extent, in accordance with the objectives of the kyoto protocol. i shall therefore vote against this amendment. i also have some doubts about amendments nos 34, 35 and 36, which seek to introduce a ban on the use of fluorinated gases in professional appliances, and i shall abstain. i shall vote in favour of amendment no 45.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the speeches of the distinguished parliamentarians and i should like to make some comments on the specific amendments. amendments relating to the legal base of the regulation are of particular importance. amendments 1, 4, 5 (first part) and 45 concern the establishment of article 175, and amendments 33 and 40 concern the establishment of article 95 as the sole legal base. the commission has accepted, as part of the compromise, that the directive should be based on article 95 alone and that the regulation should have a legal base of article 175 and article 95 in relation to articles 8, 9 and 10. however, the commission will closely follow further developments on this issue in both parliament and the council. i have most certainly taken note of your concerns on this issue. amendments 2 and 7 specify in article 1, with a corresponding change to the recital, that specific actions are needed in order for member states to reach their individual kyoto emission targets. as i have already said, the commission can support these amendments provided that the member states do not infringe other treaty obligations. likewise, it can support amendments 6 and 31 on the promotion of alternative technologies, provided there is a change to the text. there are a number of amendments of a technical nature specifically addressing containment. the commission can support most of those amendments, provided that in some cases there is a change in language to reflect the technical realities. we can also agree in principle to amendment 25, as regards the need to indicate the global warming potential on labels for the applications covered in this regulation, although we believe the issue of labelling would be best resolved by the commission through the committee, after careful preparation. the review provision is very important since the regulation is only a first step. in this context, we can be positive on some of the amendments that strengthen this review process. however, the commission cannot accept amendments 27 and 30, which would require the commission to provide a proposal by a specific date, irrespective of the findings of its review. this would undermine the commission’s right of initiative with respect to legislative proposals and cannot be accepted. the commission cannot support amendments 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 41, which introduce new ‘placing on the market bans’. the commission has always stated that a full technical and economic evaluation is needed before establishing whether a product or equipment containing fluorinated gases should be prohibited. the review provides for this four years after the entry into force of the regulation. amendment 26, which requires the use of hfcs only where safe, technically feasible, cost-effective and more environmentally sound alternatives do not exist, is also unacceptable. in practice, this would allow any member state to do as it wished with respect to products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, because there are no established criteria to determine that alternatives are safe, technically feasible and environmentally sound, etc. a number of other amendments that improve some of the general provisions of the regulation can be accepted. however, the commission cannot accept amendment 12, which provides a new definition of placing on the market. although it supports the principle of amendment 19 on the need to facilitate the shipment of recovered fluorinated greenhouse gases in the community, the commission believes it is unnecessary here since this matter is covered by the new waste shipment regulation. as regards the directive, the commission believes that amendment 1 on fiscal incentives does not provide any new value added to the proposal. member states are already allowed to grant fiscal incentives, provided that they comply with state aid rules, particularly the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, as well as on commission notice on the application of the state aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation. the same goes for amendment 2, as the 1999 directive already requires member states to ensure that the label indicating carbon dioxide emissions is affixed on all new cars for sale in the european union. however, as part of its review of this directive, with a view to making an amending proposal in 2006, if necessary, the commission will also investigate the possibility of including on the label information on the greenhouse gas effect of mobile air conditioners. this will cover information regarding both the refrigerant used and the impact on fuel consumption. i believe this will satisfy all concerns. many of the new amendments that have been tabled seeking to shift the final date in the common position from 2017 to 2016 will not be supported by the commission, since we believe that the existing dates achieve our environmental ambition and would allow industry sufficient time for compliance. it is important that the phase-out is achieved in a smooth, effective and technologically sound manner. in summary, the commission believes that, given the relatively small environmental gain that would result from advancing the deadline for the phase-out, the case for a change is not justified. likewise, we cannot support amendments that change the threshold for the global warming potential from 150 to 50, since this would in our view be determining the technology that the industry has to apply for little environmental gain. we also believe that the proposed exemption for small car producers is not compatible with the type-approval system. in conclusion, out of 45 proposed amendments to the regulation, the commission can accept five fully, and a further 18 in principle or in part. for the directive, the commission cannot support the 10 amendments proposed. i shall give a complete list of the commission’s position on the amendments to parliament’s secretariat. finally, i would just like to add that, in a letter from the director-general to mr florenz, the commission has given details of the discussion we had in the college regarding the proposals pending before the legislator. this is just to provide parliament with the existing available information, but no further economic studies are necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 26 october. annexed position of the commission annex position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission can accept 5 amendments in full: 10, 13, 24, 28 and 29. the commission can accept 18 amendments in principle or in part: 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 31, 43 and 44. the commission rejects 22 amendments in full: 1, 4, 9, 12, 14, 18, 19, 26, 27, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 45. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the following: the commission rejects 10 amendments in full: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the strategy against the influenza pandemic, tabled by mr florenz on behalf of the envi committee (o-0089/2005 - b6-0334/2005).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the risk of a pandemic must be managed in such a way as to monitor the current situation, coordinate the response but above all to avoid panic among the population and to ensure the equitable and widespread distribution of anti-epidemic products. it is for this very reason that we have tabled amendments to promote monitoring measures, using all the resources at our disposal. the european union should play an active role in managing the potential risk of h5n1 virus spread in animals: it is therefore appropriate to act in advance and to prevent. the desire to reassure consumers must also be a priority, in order to avoid unnecessary alarms which are harmful to the citizens themselves and to poultry producers. our proposal to make the labelling of white meat compulsory, as is already the case for beef, is aimed precisely at this end. we also think it is useful to have a timely information campaign to make people aware of the real risks, the possibilities of prevention and the availability of medicines. finally, we must ensure that a strategy is put in place to enable all member states to produce enough antiviral drugs to meet their needs, by directly involving the pharmaceutical companies and also by allocating the funds at our disposal to this end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an emblematic case of the influenza of chickens, or, we could also say, of the ducks and the cranes. against the pandemic danger of seasonal influenza that afflicts primates and humanity, from the dripping nose of homo erectus to cromagnon, to the pernicious napoleonic sneezes, the virus of panic seeders at the expense of speculators and scoundrels comes into force with great violence. a huge hoax, a fat cow to milk to be skimmed from the pockets of impassioned chickens, of terrified consumers, billions of euros for the fattening of the pharmaceutical multinationals. the question - i apologize for the frankness of my colleague and the naïve commission, i do not even want to make a malicious assumption - should be answered simply: if the risk of a pandemic with millions of hours of work lost and many, many victims among the bipedal, human species were real, the union, the member states and governments would have not only the ethical obligation but also the economic advantage of distributing the vaccine free of charge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the disease is contained within the community. if i'm infected with the deadly virus, i hope to take with me to my grave as many of the assholes and scoundrels that afflict mankind.
member of the commission. mr president, i will try to reply to most of the questions. it is true that we had a simulation exercise last week for smallpox. it was mostly focused on the possibility of a bioterrorist attack. however, the reaction is more or less the same. we will be able to see, from the results of that exercise, what the weaknesses are in the whole system and, hopefully, correct them in time for the influenza exercise in a few weeks’ time. the purpose of the exercises is to detect mistakes and weaknesses and correct them. i did not mention much on the veterinary side because that is to do with the pandemic stage. however, i should give some information regarding wild birds. today the commission is proposing to discuss with the standing committee the ban on imports of wild captive birds to the european union. we feel that is a precautionary measure that we need to take today for a temporary period. our experts will then review it and decide if it needs to remain in place. on the solidarity front, the regulation has not been adopted yet by either parliament or council. the idea of that regulation is to reimburse the cost of use of antivirals or vaccines in the event of a pandemic. if the council and parliament decide that it has to be readjusted to deal with purchases and precautionary measures, then that is something we can discuss. the international aspect is very important. i mentioned that last time. i will be travelling to south-east asia – the most affected area – to talk to the authorities there. nevertheless, there have been some developments. in november we will have the geneva meeting with support from the who, fao, oie and the world bank. there is no reason for duplication, but we must support the international initiatives that have been started by those organisations. the geneva conference will assess the needs – financing and other technical needs – to meet this challenge and will be followed by a pledging conference early next year. that is the important conference, where funds should be pledged to support the most affected countries in this effort. seasonal vaccination is the correct approach, but it involves an investment towards increasing the manufacturing capacity and will at the same time help the groups at risk to deal with this problem. on the issue of communication, it is very important that we maintain transparency; it is very important that we inform our citizens about the exact situation. sometimes the media exaggerate. that is a risk we have to take. however, any suspicion of a cover-up or of hiding information will have the worst results and that will cause panic. i admit that there was some panic, but it was not the commission, nor any european institution, nor any european government that linked avian flu last summer, almost as a certainty, to a pandemic. at the same time – as mentioned in your resolution – the who believes that the influenza pandemic will happen in the near future. it is therefore natural that people are worried. the only way to deal with that panic is not by not giving information but by explaining what we are doing to deal with this issue. we need both national and community plans. each country has its own peculiarities, so each country needs to have its own plan, but we have a community plan. last year we established such a plan, which coordinates and links the national plans with the community in order to achieve coordination. as to avian flu, we will have more outbreaks. we have to be realistic about that. we should not panic or transmit panic every time there is a dead wild bird found on a farm with signs of the virus. that will happen. we have the system and the legislation in place, and we will use them. the cvos meet regularly, contact farmers and advise them about what they should do. on culling, that is something we wish to avoid, but we have to take account of the safety issue. we advise that this be done through animal welfare measures regarding poultry. however, unless we have strong scientific evidence for such a measure, i would not support the culling of wild birds. the daily warning system works very well. the european centre for disease control is very active in this effort. member states and the commission are linked together in an effective way with an early warning system and are in contact and cooperation with the who. yesterday in the council we also discussed the issue of compensation for farmers. eradication measures are financed or co-financed by the commission, but the compensation for loss of profit or market is a matter being discussed in the agriculture council. there has been a reference to spanish flu, but we are much better prepared now. we have antibiotics, we have the health care system, we have doctors and other measures that we can take. i therefore believe that, with the right effort, we can minimise the number of deaths in the event of a pandemic. i will inform parliament whenever we have anything new to report. (applause)
i have received a motion for a resolution. the commission shall submit to the council a report on the implementation of the measures referred to in article 1 (2) of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are going to vote on concerns the inclusion of the prestigious european college of parma, which, if it were excluded, would risk closure. this would be harmful not only to parma but to the whole of the european union and its formation.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the pack report despite the fact that mr tajani's amendment, which we very much wanted, was unfortunately rejected. it is a pity that it was not accepted by the house. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that, despite the report i drew up during the last parliament on language learning, the document which the commission had to draw up on the basis of parliament's decisions on this subject was unfortunately not discussed. i hope, however, that this will happen as soon as possible, so that we can follow up on the report, which is also a prerequisite for the pack report, because to make lifelong learning possible, it is necessary for the citizens of the european union to know languages, and in particular to encourage the learning of minority and regional languages.
in writing. the audiovisual sector in europe is going through a delicate phase. the previous media programmes have produced good results. the programme now has broader objectives, such as the full cultural integration of an enlarged europe. in this connection, i think it is appropriate to support the archives of european film and audiovisual heritage, which perhaps also contains works that do not deserve to go down in history. but there is no doubt that every creative product remains the witness of an era and thus contributes to making known to posterity the values and the tics of a generation. knowing your past should also help you to plan your future. finally, i would like to emphasize an element which is not included in the text proposed by mr hieronymi, an element which i believe is fundamental for the audiovisual sector, which should be based on correct information about its content. i am referring to the need to protect minors, who are among the most numerous users of audiovisual works and as such deserve respect and consideration. i have therefore proposed amendments to fill these gaps. these amendments were supported by many members in the debate and mentioned by the commissioner, whom i would ask to take account of... (the text of the explanation of vote was withdrawn pursuant to rule 163)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to greet my bulgarian and romanian colleagues as observers, to whom we extend our warm greetings and welcome. mr commissioner, our group particularly appreciates not only your report but also the system of dialogue and discussion between parliament and the commission. on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, i would remind my fellow observers that there is a very large majority in this parliament in favour of their two countries. for us this is not enlargement, but the reunification of countries with a clear european tradition. there is a majority in this parliament in favour of turkey's accession, and imagine if there is not also a majority that is sensitive and attentive to your accession. however, the commissioner's report raises some serious concerns: i hope that the commissioner's delay in coming to this house, which is very justified, is not a warning sign that the accession of our two brotherly countries to the european union is delayed. but there are problems. there is no doubt - as has already been stressed and we will repeat it in this house - that progress has been made, and it is considerable. we are fully aware of the state and conditions in which you have been left after years and years of heavy oppressive leftist rule. we know what you are up against and therefore we greatly appreciate your progress, although there are serious problems which must be solved and must be solved immediately, so as not to force the european union to do what i do not want to happen, namely to postpone it for a year and perhaps more. we would like bulgaria and romania to join the european union in 2007. but some problems need to be solved and they need to be solved by you. the observers here must have the sympathy of parliament but also its concerns. you can do a great deal in your own countries to ensure that the reform processes that have been initiated lead to further progress. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the events of these days have caused us great concern about the state of the environment and health, as well as the conditions at the external borders. so we invite you to make this great commitment because we want you here with us since 2007.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is one year since the vote on the moscovici report on the progress of romania and bulgaria on the road to accession. we said yes, but with a reservation, that is to say, by invoking the safeguard clause in the treaty, which allowed us a year's delay if we found delays or unsatisfactory results in achieving the acquis communautaire. i have followed the romanian question more closely as a member of the interparliamentary delegation and i believe that prudence can help us to become more aware of the situation in this country, where the educational offer is still lacking, corruption is widespread, environmental, energy and economic policies need to be strengthened, discrimination against minorities has not found a real answer and the average income of the population is too low. the question of international adoptions, which have been blocked as a result of the moratorium and the adoption of the new law, remains open, with unpleasant and very harmful consequences for children, the most defenseless creatures who must be the main object in relation to what we all call 'human rights'. the victims are precisely the children who had known their families and who today have no chance to embrace them and live with them. the european parliament must look at this problem through a magnifying glass and ask romania to honour its commitments in the institutions. there are also the areas of justice, border control in relation to the phenomenon of prostitution, which must be contained, and the arrival in neighbouring countries of minors exploited by local organisations must also be prevented. enlargement is a process which we cannot stop, but it cannot and must not remain an economic path: it is also a phenomenon of culture and democracy which guarantees peace. i therefore agree with the commission's cautious report on the definition of the accession of romania and bulgaria. the months that separate us from the accession of these two countries to the union will give them the opportunity to be part of europe without being the taillights of europe and to us to have the necessary and prudent guarantees of a conscious and equal entry. we naturally hope that all this will be possible in order to realize the dream that romano prodi shared with the european citizens when, as president of the commission, he strongly wanted enlargement and wished for a united europe capable of proposing a strong political project, to restore confidence to those who look with concern at the great changes of our time, and to enable us to be the architects of international action with a human face. i think this is the europe we want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the observers from bulgaria and romania. i would also like to highlight the good work done by commissioner rehn and remind all colleagues that the method of comprehensive monitoring reports that we are adopting is the same method that we have used for the other ten countries that joined on 1 may 2004. if we compare the level of preparation of these 10 countries 14 months after accession, we find that the level of preparation of romania and bulgaria is not dissimilar. in fact, compared to some of the ten countries, romania and bulgaria are probably ahead today. the work of commissioner rehn is not superficial: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and where does he find serious concerns? about 10 percent of the issues. so these are important issues, such as agri-food security, border control, the fight against corruption, which many have mentioned. commissioner rehn himself tells us how energetically bulgaria has managed to make up the time taken for the elections and how impressively romania has recovered on issues such as judicial reform, competition and, more generally, on all the areas for which alignment was requested. it is precisely in the light of what has just been said that i believe that we must give bulgaria and romania confidence, which still have 14 months to play, and that there must not be a preconception, which i occasionally hear some of the speakers expressing, that the effort of two countries, two peoples, two governments must be judged a priori. i really believe that the words with which mr moscovici wanted to end, namely 'friendship, trust but also rigour', must be the words to be considered. i would say that, commissioner, it is certainly a matter of strictness, but it is also a matter of supporting the efforts of the two countries concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are pleased with the positive steps taken by romania and bulgaria towards european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission notes that the political criteria are met. i believe that the political criteria are not met in all respects. the minority law mentioned in the commission's report was voted down in the senate yesterday. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. this minority rule was practically an absolute minimum requirement and even that was rejected. i think that is shameful and a serious setback in the way of complying with the copenhagen criteria. i think it is very positive, commissioner rehn, that the report has given so much space to the roma. i think that the one and a half million hungarians in romania deserved at least a similar amount of space in your report and that it would have been better to have dealt with this subject in a little more detail. for example, if it is written about higher education and it is not mentioned that this higher education is financed by private funds, by funds from abroad, and the state does not provide any money to romania, so that it does not pay for higher education in hungarian, this is a failure to comply with the copenhagen criteria. the result is that of the 6.6% of the romanian population, which is the hungarian minority, only 1.6% have a university education. this means that an ethnic group with more people than some eu countries is being kept at the bottom of the educational ladder.finally, the european parliament called for better protection of minorities in the moscovici report. the commission has therefore decided to 'ensure the protection of the hungarian minority while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and self-government'. the commission's initiatives in this area have so far been rejected by the romanian parliament and the romanian government. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with mrs wallis that such a sensitive subject would probably have required more study. however, we are also here tonight to express our views to the commissioner. the directive in question has many interpretative lines which are still controversial, which is why we would like to see more clarity on some essential points. we believe that patents are important, but it must be clear that legal and economic protection does not allow everything to be patentable. it must be understood that clear boundaries are also needed, especially when it comes to preventing violations, such as those that are occurring in the field of embryonic stem cells for the production of human parts and forms of cloning which are prohibited by the directive. the issue of patentability, mr commissioner, which provides legal cover, must therefore be seen as a matter of caution, so as not to allow for forms of concentration, which would be the case if the scope of application for dna sequences were too wide and not limited to specific uses. finally, i look forward to the opportunity to examine these issues in greater depth, knowing that in this field too, in my view, there are limits which cannot be overcome, such as the dignity of the human being.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago in an italian region, a politician like francesco fortugno was murdered by organized crime, which speaks volumes about the level of confrontation and difficulties within our europe in dealing with organized crime itself. i come from a land where magistrates, politicians, trade unionists have fallen under the fire of the mafia and where the current president of the region is on trial for having ties with the mafia. i therefore believe that the issue should be dealt with in its complexity and that the issue of confiscation of property is a central point: it's a law that has been very successful in italy, despite the fact that only one percent of the mafia's assets have been confiscated. i believe that it is also necessary to reuse these assets for social purposes, thus returning the harvest to the community. i also believe that the mafia and organised crime cannot be defeated by military action alone, but also by political and social action. i do not think that a new european police force should be created, but that democratic control over europol's activities should be established. (applause from the left)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have spoken. i think the most important political point is the added value of european action. i cannot even imagine, when we are discussing the fight against organised crime, that the european parliament should take action in a way that is separate from that of the commission and the council. the added value is therefore provided by the joint work of the three institutions of the european union: the commission, parliament and council, because it is clear that the more united this action is, the more our activities will have political force and will be the tangible demonstration to the major criminal organizations that europe is truly united around this objective. as has been rightly said, 'parliament's voice must be heard' and i fully intend to do so. a key point - as mr coelho has mentioned - is certainly the mutual trust between the security and police authorities of the member states. if there is no mutual trust and if europol and eurojust are not given the necessary information, the european strategy is objectively weakened, which is why it was right that mr stubb reminded us of the need for the interior ministers to make considerable progress in their cooperation policy in order to strengthen this mutual trust. i am fully in favour of strengthening europol and eurojust and will personally encourage those member states which have not yet done so to ratify all europol protocols. i fully support the idea that assets confiscated from criminal organisations should be put to good use and used for social purposes. mr catania pointed out that italian legislation, but also irish legislation, provides for the use for positive purposes of assets which organized crime used for negative purposes. this is an example which, in my view, could be exported to the other member states of the european union. finally, a call for the joint investigation teams to be made to function better and better. it is a very positive experience which has produced good results so far. i believe that if this experience is strengthened and if eurojust is strengthened - as i hope - we will be able to give a response to our citizens through concrete, united action by the institutions of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is the duty of the presidency of parliament to protect the honour of its members. it has been said in this house that there are politicians and representatives of institutions with links to criminal and mafia organizations. i believe that such statements are unacceptable and therefore i ask the presidency to take precautions to prevent such actions and to take all necessary measures to protect the honour of the sinn féin delegation to our group. i think that is unacceptable and i believe that the presidency of parliament must also take action to punish actions which do not respect the dignity of the european parliament and its members. (applause from the left)
i am very pleased that the majority of members do not share mr klamt's views on this matter. i am also pleased with the views expressed by the committee on development and the committee on women's rights and with the fact that the committee on civil liberties has substantially distorted the system proposed by mr klamt in his report. i am also pleased that commissioner frattini has expressed a clear support for the way in which the libe committee has dealt with this report. i think it is very important that the commissioner has chosen this method of consultation to draw up the action plan. i would like to dwell on one point. the green paper argues that by 2030, europe will need an additional 20 million immigrant workers to maintain its current economic standard and to meet the demographic decline. and here's the crux of the matter: will these 20 million immigrants be regular workers or not? do we want them to remain underground or do we want to regularize them and bring them into a healthy labour market? that's the knot to deal with. since, in my view, the instruments which have been used to stem illegal immigration over the years have produced clandestine work, a residence permit for job seeking and the right to vote are the best way to ensure that these 20 million workers are regular workers in europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already had the opportunity to point out to commissioner barrot, the transeuropean networks are without doubt one of the decisive factors in achieving the objectives of economic development and employment of the european union identified in the lisbon agenda. in this sense it is quite true that if there is no agreement on the financial perspective, it is very unlikely that we will see the transeuropean networks realised, because year by year planning would obviously jeopardise the fate of these large structures which need more far-reaching planning. moreover, although the subject has been identified as a key element for the achievement of the internal market and for the strengthening of social cohesion, it presents critical problems, especially financial ones, which are holding back the full implementation of the projects identified. in fact, only 20% of the targets to be achieved by 2010 have been achieved so far. the large resources required and the time constraints have prevented the use of financial instruments involving private capital and have made national governments reluctant to commit to projects of cross-border relevance. another critical element is that the 10 new member states are characterised by inadequate infrastructure and the almost total absence of crossborder networks. i therefore agree with the commission - and commissioner barrot has made this quite clear - that measures such as the european coordinator should also be introduced to encourage cooperation between the institutions at all levels. i also welcome the new proposal for a regulation drawn up by the commission which, in addition to defining the new financial framework, identifies the four criteria already mentioned, on the basis of which aid will be granted. i therefore agree with the commissioner on simplification, conditionality, the principle of selectivity and concentration, and the principle of proportionality. but another innovative element in the commission's proposal, which i support, is the use of new forms of financing: in addition to grants, interest subsidies are provided for eib financing, loan guarantees to cover post-works risks and risk capital participation. in the light of the discussions in the committee on budgets and the amendments which have been tabled, and in view of the difficulties connected with the large resources required for the implementation of the projects identified, i believe that it is appropriate to facilitate the use of private capital. i would therefore be inclined to reject amendments which propose bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of the projects themselves. i would also like to point out that, since there is already a list of priority projects, i do not think it is necessary to accept those amendments which envisage a sort of priority in the priority, since the van miert working party has already identified a list of priority projects. i also believe that financial support should be guaranteed for cross-border sections and that there should be agreement by the member states for the completion of these sections. i shall welcome amendment no 46 by the chairman of the committee on transport, mr costa, although i would point out that the italian text has not been translated correctly. i therefore propose that the english text be accepted and that the word 'binding' be voted on in split. i would be inclined to reject amendments which refer to assessments carried out by independent bodies and independent experts, because there are bodies in every member state which are responsible for this function and it would be a waste of resources to provide for others. finally, as regards the energy sector, i do not think we can speak only of funding for project studies, because most of the time they remain in the drawers and constitute, in my view, another waste of resources. i therefore believe that the development of the european energy market should be supported by financing infrastructure as well, since the energy problem is one of the factors limiting economic growth in the european union. i thank the commission for the excellent cooperation and i thank above all my colleagues in the committee on budgets who have had the opportunity to encourage and even correct the joint work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i'm a little more critical. hopefully, policy makers will begin to see that this high volume of traffic is not responsible for energy consumption, climate change, health problems, and environmental degradation. transport policy must be radically changed. otherwise, this is what happens. i dare to predict this using the brenner base tunnel as an example. a huge construction site is being built on the brenner for at least fifteen years. the tunnel is useless without a ramp. but the construction of the same is far, far away. the existing railway line is still being dismantled, mainly on the italian side. they are building an underground line for high-speed passenger trains and claim that they want to do something about road freight traffic. the construction is much more expensive than it says. the taxpayer bears all the risks, as with the messina bridge. the burden on people and nature along the brenner line continues to increase despite the brenner base tunnel. but a few people get richer. the brussels money pots have whetted the appetite.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the new psi, i thank rapporteur mauro and commissioner barrot for the excellent work they have done and for the important content of the proposal. at a time when europe is divided on many fronts, i think it is essential to send a message that we are willing to take concrete action on the need for cohesion within our borders. i therefore fully agree with the contents of the report: ten projects bring citizens closer together, reduce distances and disparities and abolish borders. they deserve our full attention. so yes to increasing the contribution to crossborder projects which bring europe closer to the local dimension, the public to the private. i would have liked to see more eu support for energy networks which, alongside transport, form the basis of a globally competitive european economy. i therefore hope that the new rules will be adopted as soon as possible and, above all, that the financial perspective for the period in question will be resolved quickly. i would like to make a special appeal to the british and austrian presidencies in this connection and i hope that the president-in-office, mr blair, will be able to give us some new positive elements tomorrow to revive the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this long procedure which has led to the vote on first reading, two questions have often come to my mind. the first: what is the budget? a cold accounting exercise or a preeminent political act? the second: the choices we make, rather than 'co-decide', are they really a priority for our citizens and are we the ones who have to finance these priorities, or would it be more appropriate for them to be financed by national or regional budgets? i believe that these two questions, which concern both the annual budget and the financial perspective, precede the analysis of the lines and categories of expenditure. they represent the basic elements of a debate which must emerge from the sewers of technicality, because it is a purely political debate. if the european union is to take certain actions and not others, it cannot be a subject which it can ignore by feeding a dialectical vacuum between the rigorous and the lax. it is a central issue on the european political agenda and i am surprised - i say this to the representatives of the council - that there is no room for these issues at tomorrow's summit of heads of state or government. how can the union's social agenda be written without also linking it to the choices made in the annual and multiannual budget? it is a mystery which i hope will be answered in president blair's speech today. the question of the financial resources to carry out our tasks is a real one. the time has come to face that question with courage. the theme is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether there are any responsibilities which call into question the supranational level? is there european added value in comparison with national public expenditure? what are these policies and programmes and what is their place in the european budget? i'll give you a few examples. the first: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. there is no doubt that social, economic and territorial imbalances still characterize the union. it is therefore essential to promote economic development by addressing structural weaknesses, stimulating sustainable growth, and making a significant contribution to boosting employment and competitiveness. this policy must be pursued at european level, because it is only at this level that it can be effective in terms of costs, rationalization and uniformity of procedures, sharing of resources, programming of objectives, exchange of good practice. second example: the research. is there a need for research policy at european level? or, rather, in addition to individual states and private actors, must there also be direct european involvement in research? the competitiveness gap which has made our continent weaker in recent years compared with emerging or established economies is obvious to all. can we close this gap only with protective measures or should we instead strengthen european research efforts by creating centres of excellence, bringing added value to industry, small and mediumsized enterprises, promoting cooperation between public and private actors, especially with regard to research infrastructures and public-private partnerships, disseminating knowledge, networking our researchers who are active all over the world? the european union -- and you know this -- trains more phds in science and engineering than the united states, but many decide to emigrate or pursue other careers. at present, there are about 85-90 thousand european researchers working in the field of scientific research in the united states. increased investment at european level can certainly help to reduce this problem. in this respect, a comparison of international data shows that the european union still has a long way to go to catch up with its main competitors. in 2001, the european union spent 1.9% of gdp on research, while japan spent 3.1% and the united states 2.8%. the key programme for these interventions, as we know, is the sixth framework programme and the seventh framework programme is now well under way. can we leave these instruments without adequate financial resources? third example: education, training, culture and youth policies. president blair is right when he points out, as he did in his passionate and much-appreciated inaugural speech of the british presidency in this very house, that we must modernise our social model, drastically reduce the dramatic figure of 20 million unemployed, raise productivity rates, train more workers in scientific subjects, and give priority to human capital. however, its position would be in danger of losing its effectiveness if it were not accompanied by consistent decisions on financial resources. we made some very specific choices: , by increasing the amounts for programmes targeting young people: perhaps there has never been such a significant increase in the three main youth programmes before this budget: socrates, leonardo and youth. we must send a strong message to young europeans, and be consistent with the pact for young people that governments themselves launched a few months ago, and launch new pilot actions, such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs and erasmus for students in secondary and higher education (aged 16-18). finally, the external actions. in recent years, a paradox has emerged: on the one hand, the european union has been rightly asked to play a more unified and decisive role in the world, and on the other hand, at the same time, it has been demanded that veto power be retained in foreign policy, especially by the member states, and that a totally inadequate financial allocation be maintained. it is therefore more legitimate for european citizens to complain about the union's substantial lack of influence in the wider international community. today the community budget, with just five billion euros or so, is supposed to be used for reconstruction in iraq, reconstruction in afghanistan, the tsunami emergency, humanitarian aid, the strengthening of democracy, the defence of human rights in crisis areas, the fight against poverty and misery, the mediterranean and balkan cooperation programmes and dozens of other important initiatives. and finally, it is rightly announced that we must now extend our aid to pakistan's reconstruction and to the emergency after the earthquake. a more substantial intervention to help the middle east peace process is also announced. all this creates an unbearable gap between these political declarations, these commitments, these duties - i dare say - and the financial allocation for heading 4, which is just five billion euros. this scissor, this contradiction, helps to paint us all - the european parliament, the commission, the european council - in the eyes of our fellow citizens as the classic princes without scepter. i think these are also the issues that concern our budget. i believe that the strategy adopted by the committee on budgets is based on the following principles: maintain consistency with approaches from previous years; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. ensure an adequate overall level of payments; ensure an adequate overall level of structural fund payments; give maximum support to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, through increased resources for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, the environment and, in particular, youth policies; the commission has also proposed that the financial commitment for heading 4, external action, be increased, since the ceiling does not allow for the financing of emergencies which, year after year, add to the previous ones - afghanistan, iraq, tsunami - and parliament's traditional priorities. i will spare you the figures, which you know as well as i do, and i will go to the political conclusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a strong and reasonable position for an ambitious but not pretentious budget, a position to which we have arrived thanks to the responsible contribution of all the political groups and i would like to thank all the group coordinators of the committee on budgets and all the colleagues who have contributed to our work and have made it possible to examine the more than 900 amendments and who have so far ensured our platform a very wide support. i thank the commissioner for the cooperation which has been established and which has gradually grown stronger and more valuable, to the point of pointing out positions of very broad convergence. i thank minister lewis, representing the council: i thank him today for the exquisite courtesy with which he has set up his dialogue with parliament. i would like to thank him tomorrow for the positive answers which i hope the council will give us in the conciliation. a grateful thought also goes to president lewandowski and the staff and secretariat who assist me, in particular my incomparable assistant - forgive this personal note but it is sincere and due - in the hard work of these months and, which i am sure, will continue to do so. my final message is once again to the council. we often say: "between the first and second readings there will be a terrible tug of war between parliament and the council". but is that so? i ask the council. is it inevitable that blood will flow in the golden halls of charlemagne? do we have to come with the article 272 gun hidden in our pocket? is it so difficult to understand that what is at stake is not a sum of bizarre corporate claims but, more simply and dramatically, the fate and future of europe, of our institutions, of the relationship of trust between us and our fellow citizens, a relationship which is deeply worn out but which can still be recovered and revived? this budget is a bridge to the new programming phase. it comes at a terrible time in the life and history of the union. it is also true that the european union has a long tradition of being a partner rather than a part of european unity. but it is also true that the union has to face challenges that no one can tackle alone, from cohesion to competitiveness to external action. the new scenarios for the planet, which were not even foreseeable when the current financial perspective was decided in 1999, raise urgent questions to which we must give an appropriate answer. i think that very few citizens want less europe, many want more europe. i hope that the second half of the british presidency will bring us two brilliant and decisive results to make up for the shortfall. together we can launch a good budget for 2006, together we can launch the new financial perspective by the end of the year, opening a new era of confidence in the european project.
member of the commission. i am very grateful for the way in which parliament is assessing the preparation for the adoption of the 2006 budget, the way in which mr pittella is assessing our growing understanding and cooperation between the commission and parliament and the way in which the whole debate and preparation for the adoption of the budget is proceeding. to avoid problems with translation, i will speak english. to avoid interpreting problems, i would like to give my more technical presentation in english. mr pitella has set us a fine example with his presentation. i shall go through the various headings. the commission will present its new estimates for agricultural expenditure under heading 1a within a week in accordance with the new market trends, which, according to our information, will mean a reduction in the estimates that the commission has proposed for agricultural expenditure. as regards the second heading structural actions , the gdp proposed by the commission was presented and established on the basis of observed trends and our revised estimates, which do not exactly correspond to those of the member states. the commission will submit a letter of amendment at the beginning of november, bearing in mind that we will be receiving the final data from the member states at the end of this month, so we will be coming to you in the first weeks of november with the final level, which will have to be determined in trialogue in november. on internal policies, parliament has tabled a lot of amendments, mainly on co-decided programmes. so, as usual, the commission confirms that it will support any proposals in the co-decided envelope, if this is agreed between two budgetary authorities. external action is the most difficult heading for all of us, especially because it entails pressure as regards the use of the flexibility instrument. next year we will need expenditure at least for the tsunami and for sugar reform, and it is becoming clear that two further items of expenditure will be needed: support for gaza and the earthquake in pakistan. this defines and distinguishes clearly how we should reflect or understand the flexibility instrument's use in the future, and i would like to re-confirm what i said recently in cobu: the commission and its legal service understand that, for 2006, up to eur 493 million are available under the flexibility instrument. on administrative expenditure and posts, i welcome the reinstatement of all the pdb requests we presented. i also welcome the reaction from council and parliament to our message sent in september about recruitment, and i would like to correct a point in mr dombrovskis' presentation. all 1480 posts for new member states have been filled as at present. there are no vacant posts left. we are doing our best. so if eur 16 million is to be reserved in the way proposed today, subject to very demanding conditions which cannot be met promptly next year, we will be faced with recruitment problems in respect of about half of the new posts proposed, some 200 to 300 posts. nevertheless, the commission will take the opportunity to comment on the amendments as a whole, especially those to be tabled and which are indeed of great importance to parliament in our letter on implementability. i will send this to you in advance of the second reading. we would like to wish the rapporteur and parliament a very constructive debate and successful vote tomorrow. the commission will be on your side, helping to reach a deal for 2006 in november or, at the latest, in december.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur's substitute, i should like to stress three points raised by the committee on foreign affairs. the first point concerns the european initiative for human rights and democracy, for which we do not accept the 25% cut proposed by the commission and we ask that at least the 2005 budget be reinstated. the second point concerns aid for the reconstruction of iraq. we would like to see community funds spent in a transparent way, entrusting them to the un agencies operating in iraq. we are also asking the council to be more clear when it reports on the use of funds for the union's special representatives. pending clarifications from the council, the committee on foreign affairs has proposed a cut of eur 1.5 million in the payment appropriations entered in the budget line in question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the doyle report on the reduction of harmful emissions into the environment for the protection of the climate. but today, october 26, 2005, the weather in strasbourg is beautiful, springtime, it's warm, and so is bergamo - my city - as well as athens. so i wonder if we really have to look at climate change as a negative thing, because it seems to me very pleasant. and above all, if china continues to pollute and thus negatively affect the climate, do we not want to do anything to avoid importing chinese products if they are made in an un-ecological way?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr florenz's report, which i welcome because it is aimed at reducing noise emissions which are harmful to the environment. i hope that, thanks to the silence that will result, governments will be able to hear the voices of pensioners who are asking for pension increases, since they have so far been unheard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my solidarity with mr klamt for the attempt, which was unsuccessful, by the left to distort the report in committee. as it is well known that sanitariums do not solve problems and do not improve the conditions of unemployed immigrants, i agree with the rapporteur that mass regularisation is neither a measure against illegal immigration nor a means of recruiting economic migrants but, on the contrary, it feeds marginalisation and widespread crime. while the ambitious proposal to create a european 'green card' system is welcome, a policy that makes entry arrangements more flexible for seasonal workers or those with fixed-term work creates a catastrophic and unmanageable situation. for immigration to be a factor of prosperity and development rather than instability, strict procedures and criteria are needed. the presence of a guarantor and the demonstration by the migrant of his ability to provide for himself, i believe, must be accompanied by other guarantees. the workplace must be a sine qua non for the admission of a migrant. it is not acceptable to provide for derogations and exceptions. i hope that the commission will put forward a coherent and pragmatic proposal with precise and not arbitrary conditions. economic migration represents an opportunity for a country but it cannot be the panacea for all dysfunctions, from ageing to labour shortages. that is why my group, the national alliance or the uen group, abstained in the vote on this report.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, you have today confirmed your ability as a performer and a magician, qualities which you could teach some of our friends, my fellow countrymen, on the occasion of one of your many visits to italy. however, this ability of his does not make up for the fact that the great summit of the relaunch of the european social dimension seems to have been downgraded to a friendly chatter among friends on the most varied topics, in particular on economic reform and competitiveness. on the other hand, you still refuse to discuss the common energy policy, which is already contained in the constitution, a policy which now seems to be serving to revive the old debate on nuclear energy. i think he could have chosen something better to bring europe closer to the citizens. let's be clear, if you drop the country of origin business, i think we can have a deal, or at least we can start to discuss it and have a deal. if you want to do that, let's try to discuss it. if you do not want to drop it, i think it would be very difficult to find an agreement with this parliament. i believe that in any case, even if you are trying to get a political agreement in december, you might have to wait a bit before claiming victory since we don't vote until january. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr blair, it is not enough to say that we need more research and more innovation, but we must, in my view, decide on what and in what direction. we would really like you to tell us what concrete proposals are possible to exploit the potential of european competitiveness in the field of renewable energy, environmental technologies and energy efficiency. it is not just nuclear power or the protection of the large chemical industry! this would help us to have a real synergy between the strategic economic benefits and the environmental challenges posed by globalisation. in your speech and in that of the commission we found the absence of clear proposals on the international dimension of the battle for the european social model, or a strategy to promote, at global level, those values of solidarity, democracy, rights and health which everyone wants to defend with words. president blair, we believe that there are no plans d or b that have: the real breakthrough for social europe, and for europe in general, would be to abandon the ill-conceived idea that the european project can be revived by cutting the union's budget. that's where we'd really like you to change your mind. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in june last, president blair has today delivered a speech full of good european intentions. today we have heard clear words on strategic areas for the revival of the european economy, such as energy, research and infrastructure. but these are only words, because everything depends on the agreement on the financial perspective and in this respect - despite the reassuring statements - we are not convinced that there is the determination necessary to conclude the negotiations. the new european social model has also been spoken of too little, particularly on the eve of a summit which should be devoted to this very subject. we are not convinced by tony blair's enthusiasm for the revision of the working time directive, which is likely to become a contractual blackmailing tool against an increasingly large number of precarious and atypical workers, nor by his enthusiasm for the so-called bolkenstein directive, which, as it stands, only puts workers' and consumers' rights at risk by creating, at best, only 600 000 jobs: an elephant giving birth to a mouse! in conclusion, president blair has been unconvincing on the european social model and if he had not gone off snubbing this parliament a little bit... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the content of mr blair's speech at tomorrow's summit, but i would like the council to look very closely at a fundamental issue which is already at the heart of mr blair's speech and mr barroso's: the question of the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the ageing of the population. the demographic rate and the working population in europe are declining alarmingly, and the data published just yesterday by eurostat tell us that we can only fill this deficit through immigration. the birth rate of 1.50 children per couple is well below the natural replacement level of two children per two parents. the working population in 2020 will decline by 20.7 per cent compared to 1980, which is equivalent to 20 million fewer workers. the ageing of the european population: in 2020, the elderly will be 19.1 percent more than in 1980. this has a negative impact not only on public finances, health and pensions, but also on the prospects for growth in europe because we are losing momentum. the reasons are many, and one of them is certainly the failure to safeguard and promote the family, the basic unit of society, one of the fundamental values of european civilization. we're finding that giving up our values, in addition to a social impact, has a very negative economic impact. , the lisbon objectives seem difficult to achieve under these conditions. what then? we must return to the values which inspired the founding fathers of europe to give birth to a dream that is in danger of being shattered just as it is about to be realized. that is why all the institutions have a duty to focus on the centrality of the individual if we are to really bring about a new european social model, a model which must be inspired by the principles of the social market economy, where competitiveness, competition and the role of free enterprise and entrepreneurship as a whole must have as their main objective the well-being of the community and full employment. there is much to be done for balanced growth, including the need to review - i agree with mr blair - the energy choices, to identify financial and project instruments. the council, the commission and parliament will have to deal with important issues in the coming weeks: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but if they work without a strategic plan based on the founding values of our society, all their efforts will be in vain. mr blair is right when he says that we have a great heritage to preserve. let's make sure we don't destroy it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to thank those who have been part of my core team, the long-term observers, those who have spent four months with me in this extraordinary but very difficult country in conditions which are sometimes very particular, very tense, very exciting but not always very easy. you'll never see them, but they're there, they were there under a european flag: i think they represented well the support for democracy which is the common ground between us all, the basic element we want to support. the mission will shortly publish, after consulting the commission, the final report on the elections and, for the first time, we will also undertake, in consultation, to draw up a report on democratization and its future steps. the whole electoral process has had its moments of failure, which we had already anticipated in the preliminary statement, but there have also been moments of concern, such as the arrest of mohaqui nasab, the journalist who edited the weekly magazine on women's rights, an arrest which was declared illegal by the head of the afghan authorities' media commission himself. i think this is a matter of concern and i hope that the european institutions will also be able to draw attention to or call upon our afghan friends and the authorities in the country to respect the rule of law and the rule of law. i would also like to stress two things about the future, as you said, of the follow-up to the bonn conference. first, we must be aware that this is a medium- to long-term commitment, whatever formula is adopted. secondly, i would like to stress the regional dimension, so important for the very success of afghanistan. whether we are talking about security, trade or economic development, the regional dimension is certainly an element to be taken into account. but it is also true that afghanistan is one of the countries where international involvement, particularly european involvement, can make a difference. afghanistan is a country that is caught between a possible future and a very hard past to die from. but there are human resources, in my view, to look to the future. when you see thousands of girls leaving school in black uniforms and white handkerchiefs, with ordinary books in their pockets, i believe that this is the future, although it is still many years away from its full realization. but it is in these areas that we can make a difference, though not alone. it is also necessary that our american friends remain in the country at this time, which is still difficult from the point of view of security, hoping that they will be able to adopt a more respectful attitude towards local traditions, which is not always the case. i remain convinced that a future is possible. it depends on the afghans, of course, but it also depends on us. i believe that this is the hope and the commitment that inspired your visit to us, the visit of the european delegation and our presence for so many weeks that, in my view, it has also earned the respect and appreciation of the afghan people themselves.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i confess that i suffered because i was unable to take part in the elections in afghanistan: i would have liked to do that very much, but the d'hondt system in parliament did not allow me to do so. i really believe that the processes of change in afghanistan are effective, effective, real. but they're slow, they're difficult, they're complicated. the example of the growth of democracy comes from a young woman, malalaia joya, 26, who i met when she was 18, when she was working clandestinely in afghanistan for women's education, and who was elected in a difficult province in afghanistan. it is you, by the way, who two years ago, in the loyal girka, very clearly said: "the warlords are still here". the fact that a woman like this, despite the difficulties and intimidation she had to endure, managed to be elected - and i am sure she will contribute to the building of democracy in afghanistan - is an extraordinary fact, because, in my opinion, these elections were positive. i also thank emma bonino, whom i trust, although we disagree on many issues, for example on the middle east, but i have great confidence in her democracy for her presence in afghanistan and i am very pleased that the european union has played such a positive role. if malalaia joya is an example of the new afghanistan, so is omar, a guy i met when the taliban were still in power, who said, "i want to live: it's not just for the women that i'm fighting against the taliban, but it's for me, because i don't want to have a beard and i want to listen to music". omar was also elected, and i think that is another extremely positive development. however, we cannot ignore the complexities and the difficult choices facing president karzai, who has in fact chosen not to punish the warlords, as human rights watch, for example, claims, but to take what is perhaps the only possible course at this stage, namely to allow the warlords to be elected. i also think that there is a serious problem with regard to, for example, isaf, which undeniably plays an extremely positive role, although i am against all war and all military participation. however, the role played by us forces is not positive for the end of the conflicts, reconciliation and development of afghanistan. i am not only referring to the horror of seeing two bodies of taliban burned - so-called taliban because in the end everyone is considered such - but also to the absence of legality and the absence of rules, as for example in bagram prison, where taliban are held without any kind of control. and precisely because we have to think, understand and change together, i believe we cannot hide from the truth that, from the reactions of the afghans we have seen on television, can create conflict. in this respect, i believe that the eu has a very important role to play in these matters. i am very grateful, not only to the commissioner but to the whole european union, which is working in a different way to make afghanistan pro-democracy. however, to achieve this, we really need to work to strengthen state institutions and to ensure that ngos and civil society can still make their voices heard.
azerbaijan is a strategic partner for europe, in economic, security and foreign policy terms. the eu has therefore welcomed him as a partner in its neighbourhood policy and is following domestic political developments with interest. the upcoming elections are a milestone in azerbaijan's history that will determine the direction the country intends to move in and its willingness to follow in the footsteps of other former soviet republics towards greater democratic participation, transparency and freedom of expression. on the eve of such an event, a certain nervousness is understandable. however, i do not think that the attitude of the present government, which seems to be deliberately creating a climate of fear that degenerates into violence and unlawful interference in the conduct of the election campaign, as evidenced by the withdrawal of several candidates from the lists, can be justified. the decision to use ink to limit the risk of fraud also came too late and after too many objections, which only cast a bad light on the goodwill of the government to proceed in a clear and transparent manner. the way in which this last week of the election, and especially the election itself, unfolds will determine the eu's future attitude and our openness to an ever more fruitful partnership.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her commitment to this report, but also the commissioner for her words of hope in relation to this troubled area of the mediterranean. in 1995 an irreversible process of closer cooperation between the countries of the mediterranean area was launched in barcelona. the pessimists will tell us that the results have been less than expected, that the economic progress of the southern shore countries has been insufficient, that political dialogue has been difficult and fragmented, that europe has failed to make itself heard properly in the field of human rights and democracy, that south-south economic cooperation is still in its infancy and that the results in the field of joint management of the phenomenon of immigration are not satisfactory. the international geopolitical landscape of the mediterranean area has certainly changed today, and the ambitious project of the barcelona process must be reshaped and adapted to the new international context if the euro-mediterranean partnership is to meet the current challenges. we shall start from what has been done. joint interministerial cooperation mechanisms have been set up, which will no longer be called into question, for the joint resolution of problems in the area in question. the euro-mediterranean assembly was set up as an accompaniment to intergovernmental cooperation, in which the rules of parliamentarism are applied. a programme of aid of 700 million euro a year, meda, has been defined for the purpose of transferring resources and planning from the north and south and the programme has now achieved quite interesting rates of implementation. it has been set in motion, but it has nevertheless begun a democratic process in some of the countries bordering on the mediterranean, lebanon, egypt, and to some extent also palestine. association agreements have been signed between the european union and all the countries of the southern hemisphere, and there is certainly no lack of cooperation, which is apparently secondary but very effective in the cultural field, and which has been initiated within the wider framework of the barcelona agreement. all this has enabled us to get to know each other better and more and opens the door with a certain optimism to a second decade, in which the positive aspects of the process must be consolidated, the current planning and objectives given further substance, any mistakes made corrected, so that stability, peace and democracy and socioeconomic progress can become results shared by an increasing number of countries and citizens in the mediterranean area. let me just mention the problem of culture, which is not only education and training but also cultural heritage. through the safeguarding of cultural heritage we can better know and respect each other in our diversity and identities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize three aspects of this process. the first concerns the projection of the euro-mediterranean partnership into the neighbourhood policy, as commissioner ferrero has mentioned. i believe that this should not only lead us to focus on bilateral action plans but should also lead us to structure a european and mediterranean geographical and political area. the political dimension is needed for all this, and we must say that it has grown because the european parliament has helped to create the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, civil society has built the civil forum, and what is missing are governments, where are the governments? i believe that to make progress in this process we will need parliaments, societies and governments to engage in a little more dialogue and that is where a more advanced dimension of human rights can also be built. finally, the sociologist edgard mo... rightly reminds us that it is not cultures, religions, civilizations that dialogue but people, individuals, men and women and, i i think the most serious limitation in all these years of this very generous and very intelligent process has been precisely that we have not been able to relate our different societies and so today terrorism and immigration risk deepening this gulf even further. i agree with our rapporteur that we must strengthen all the programmes and all the instruments which help our societies to get to know each other and to dialogue, and therefore education and culture, training and information. in short, we support our rapporteur because her report goes in this direction and the euro-mediterranean policy needs less rhetoric and much more concreteness.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr mavrommatis for his excellent report and the ombudsman. the first european ombudsman was set up in sweden in 1809. as an italian citizen, however, i would like to point out that it was giuseppe mazzini, whose bicentenary is being celebrated this year, who created the institution of petition, providing, in article 10 of the constitution of the roman republic of 1849, for the possibility of making individual and collective appeals. it was he who proposed a political association of the peoples of europe in a europe of free, federated national states, the precursors of the idea of europe which a century later found form and substance in the first nucleus of the present union. the annual report of our ombudsman, which we are considering today, gives us an idea of the desire of the citizen to interact with the community institutions. the fact that we should reflect on, however, is that of the more than 3,726 complaints received, 72 percent are not within its jurisdiction. it is also significant that 51 per cent of cases are reported by citizens of the enlargement countries. this means that the perception of the citizens of the union and its representatives is still confused, that it is undeniable that the community citizen is well aware of his rights and that he wants to exercise his citizenship through complaints, but it is also true that he is obviously unable to identify the addressee of his requests. the ombudsman and the institution of petition have been successful. this is a fact which cannot be ignored; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i believe that efforts should also be made to reduce the time needed to deal with complaints, as mentioned in the mavrommatis report, by improving the exchange of information and cooperation between the institutions wherever possible. ladies and gentlemen, the role of the european ombudsman was established by the maastricht treaty as part of european citizenship, a question which is now open and which requires new rights arising from the enlargement and complexity of the phenomenon of migration and globalisation. i believe that our ombudsman has fully met the three guidelines he had committed himself to: promoting the rule of law, good administration and respect for human rights; enlargement and thus bringing all citizens closer together, including a constant relationship with ombudsmen at european level. political analysis of the data shows, however, that europeans recognise and therefore use the community institutions, bypassing national institutions in practice. so even if citizens' perception of europe corresponds to a different entity - one with powers and competences - this often does not translate into reality. it is therefore up to us to direct europeans more closely to our institutions, by gathering popular signals to urge governments to be open to ceding areas of sovereignty in order to make european action more effective. as has been mentioned, the ombudsman is an independent and impartial body. he must cooperate with all the other institutions and i believe he will do so to the best of his ability, with our cooperation and with the cooperation of all the institutions.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in our view the european ombudsman's report for 2004 does not contain an overview of the principles, which was certainly needed, because, as many of the honourable members have pointed out, the result of the referendums, which in countries of great importance and with a long democratic tradition, rejected the draft european constitution, shows that there is a strong sense of impatience and widespread dissatisfaction among european citizens with the democratic nature of the european institutions. the european union is seen by the vast majority of european citizens as a moloch, and the european ombudsman should have felt obliged to give voice to this sensitivity which has been expressed so clearly, whereas the report before us looks like a document from a statistical institute: the commission's proposal is a very good one, but it is not a good one. it is enough to think, for example, of the sensitive area of grants and public funding, which is perhaps the most important part of the impression that european citizens have of the lack of transparency of the european institutions. who can the european citizen turn to when he sees a sign for a gigantic, perhaps useless, work with the words 'financed by the european union' on it, and thinks of the tax money he has paid? why did you not think of asking that wherever such signs are displayed or a project financed by the european union is carried out, there should be an indication of how the citizen - the quidam de populo - can address the institution that should protect his desire for transparency. if i think of what happens every time the anti-mafia committee in our country puts its finger on the use of european funds in certain regions, i wonder what an honest citizen from sicily, apulia, calabria or campania thinks when he sees such public works being carried out, perhaps through opaque contracts. i believe that the institution of the european ombudsman needs to be transformed and that the essential and sensitive issue of the role of a modern democracy in europe needs to be addressed. the report speaks in general terms of contacts with fellow national ombudsmen, without specifying the subject matter of these meetings, nor explaining the spirit of this collaboration or the way in which the work of this network - which is certainly positive and which we welcome - can be carried out through the presence of national ombudsmen in the individual states. the report gives a somewhat 'super-bureaucratic' view of the role of the european ombudsman. mr diamandouros, your declaration of intent for the first five years of operation is also very general: the commission is simply saying that citizens must know their rights, without mentioning that a measure is being implemented which is dangerous to the freedom of citizens, such as the european arrest warrant. then let us defend the freedom of the european citizens!
the rapporteur. before proposing some technical adjustments, mr president, i should like to thank all the members for the excellent, even brief, debate that took place yesterday and for the loyal cooperation they have shown so far and which i hope will continue during the vote and in the following phases. as every year, before we vote, i ask that certain technical adjustments be accepted. in the second indent of row 15 06 06, relating to special annual events, the words 'to the new museum of europe' should be deleted. in relation to 19 03 06, concerning the european union special representatives, in order to be consistent with the title of the line, the word 'envoy' in the comment should be replaced by the word 'representative'. the remaining part of the comment to the same line is missing due to a technical error and therefore that part of the text should not be deleted. amendment no 771 in block 4 should enter the total amount of payment appropriations for budget line 22 02 01 01 on the line and finally on the lines relating to the european development fund a 'by way of remembrance' should be inserted to restore the preliminary draft budget. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training and the development of the staff of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if this amendment were to be adopted, i would ask that the standard phrase which we have used for all similar amendments, namely 'part of the appropriation is earmarked for', be adopted as well, because we cannot make a reservation of specific funds.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid confusion during the vote, i propose that we vote on amendment no 74 with regard to the comments and amendment no 223 with regard to the amounts.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what i said before applies to this amendment as well, namely that if it is adopted, the standard phrase must be used, because we cannot make a specific reserve of funds. "part of the appropriation is intended for"
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr dombrovskis spoke in english instead of in polish. i am aware that many of my colleagues know english better than they know polish, but all languages have the same dignity and therefore interpretation must be available to all or to none.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report deals with a wide range of social policy issues. it is to be hoped that these fine principles will be taken into account in concrete initiatives, particularly in the economic field, to a much greater extent than in the past. otherwise, the satirical saying 'the road to hell is paved with good intentions' would have to be translated for the eu as 'the road to neo-capitalist globalisation is paved with beautiful eu social policy sayings'. the report does not yet provide a clear picture of the relationship between poverty, the economy and environmental degradation. for example, the world energy outlook 2005 of the international energy agency paints a frightening picture: global co2 emissions will increase by 52% by 2030. there is a great conflict of objectives between environmental destruction and poverty reduction. the poorest are the ones who suffer most. it is the task of politics to set clear framework conditions for the economy. multinational corporations must take much greater social and environmental responsibility, as for example is reflected in the triple bottom line approach. the consumer can be guided to a more responsible consumption, as in the case of the eco-label. consumers have the right to know whether a product has been produced fairly, in accordance with ilo standards and not exploited. i would like to say one more thing about the wto: i am disturbed by the excessive respect for the world trade organisation. many politicians treat it as if it were a force of nature. the wto must become more democratic. elected bodies must redefine the objectives of the wto and monitor its activities. here too, the eu must play a much stronger role.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i find mr brejc's approach to a very sensitive subject, namely the social implications of globalisation, very effective. this is a very topical subject, which was also the subject of a very lively debate at the recent informal summit of heads of state and government held on 28 october in hampton court. globalisation is a complex process, which presents opportunities but also challenges. it must be managed in an appropriate way in order to take advantage of its positive aspects and at the same time to try to reduce the economic and social imbalances that accompany it. the union can make an effective contribution to this end by promoting its development model at international level. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to relaunch and strengthen the lisbon strategy, which highlights the interdependence between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. i also agree with the honourable member that investment in human resources, vocational training, research and innovation is a key factor in achieving development that is geared to social justice. however, this is not enough. as the events of recent days in the french suburbs show, even in the most industrialized countries of the union there are strong social imbalances, which cause entire sections of the population to feel marginalized. good global governance is not enough to solve these problems, but better interpretation of local needs is needed. to survive and thrive, a global economy must have stronger foundations, promote broader and more inclusive social action, and be compatible with local needs. that is why we must think globally and act locally. "glocal" is, in my opinion, the key word. the european model must therefore be revised, so that, without compromising the important social achievements of the last century, it can, by being closer to the citizens, better meet the needs of a society in constant change and of an economy that is now on a global scale. europe must look to the future with courage and cannot afford to lose the challenge of globalisation.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. he spoke, but he did not even have the courage to say that we were not talking about secret prisons in general, but about actual torture centres put at the disposal of the cia and the usa by certain european states. commissioner frattini, you are denying the evidence. it denies what has been admitted by some authoritative us sources. we ask you to investigate, but if you don't want to find the evidence, you'll never find it. commissioner, are you not aware that on 17 february 2003 in milan abu omar, the former imam of the mosque in via jenner, was kidnapped and that the milan magistrates found irrefutable evidence of the direct responsibility of the cia and asked for the extradition of 22 us intelligence agents? what position has the european commission taken in the face of this evidence? what concrete steps has the council taken, in the face of this violation of the right to sovereignty, to ensure that the us authorities comply with the convention on human rights and torture? the commission has done nothing. if this is the past, i think there is little to hope for in the future action of the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that a complex and multifaceted subject such as terrorism cannot be tackled with a one-sided approach. citizens of one or more sovereign states have the legitimate right to live their lives in peace, devoting themselves to their work, their family and the life that each of them freely chooses to lead. wars have been and still are crucial stages in social life, they upset every point of reference and have clear military positions, precise battlefields, visible opponents and rules. terrorism, on the other hand, does not operate in the context of a declared war, does not involve only the military and does not take place on the battlefields. it is a subtle way of hitting innocent people in their homes at the most unlikely times and places, with no clear purpose, no social purpose and no value whatsoever. it is indisputable that everyone must respect the rules, the laws and the sovereign states. it is indisputable that everyone must respect not only the most basic human rights but also the principles on which any civil society and any relations between nations are based. however, before accusing countries which are undoubtedly democratic, i think it is necessary to know the facts and circumstances exactly. we must also think of the families of the helpless victims who have been slaughtered by terrorism in recent years, and of the millions of citizens who continue to live with the threat of attacks. we cannot think of using educational programmes to prevent terrorism, but we cannot blame democratic countries on the basis of mere assumptions. between terrorism and democracy, i believe that each of us chooses democracy. mr president, let us leave the judges to their task, without looking for evidence to blame countries which certainly do not deserve it. i share the view of commissioner frattini and i hope that we will only take decisions on this matter in this house when we are sure that democracy is being respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that the denials to which vice-president frattini referred in relation to the countries concerned are very formal and unconvincing. in top secret cia documents, which are covered by virtually all the european press, the clandestine prisons in poland and romania, reported by the washington post and human rights voices, even have a name, they are called "black sites". i am that no man's land where it is never possible to invoke the law or to apply habeas corpus. these facts, if they are proved, are serious and bring us to a critical point, namely the search for that difficult balance between the protection of citizens' rights and the fight against terrorism. i would like to point out, paradoxically, that in a few minutes, in the committee on civil liberties, parliament will be discussing the subject of data retention and will again be trying, with a great sense of responsibility, to find a political and legal agreement that can keep rights and emergencies together. it is about the need to protect the rights of citizens and to fight terrorism with all the means at our disposal, at a time when we are finding that the countries of europe have become the backyard of the cia. mr frattini, the serious thing is that we have no right to wonder. two years ago, as you are well aware, as is apparent from ongoing judicial inquiries, citizens of the community and non-community countries were kidnapped in european countries by american intelligence services. however, we are very recurrent in our distraction. we take note of what you said at the end of your speech, namely that if the incidents we are discussing today were proved, they would constitute serious violations of articles 6 and 7 of the treaty establishing the european union. i think that is an important statement and we ask you to work on it by undertaking a thorough and thorough investigation of the facts we have been called upon to discuss this evening.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barroso, for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barroso, for his report, which is a very good report. this was a sign of an economic and social crisis, which also affected european policies, i.e. liberal policies. we needed a breakthrough, which did not come, even after the french and dutch referendums rejected the constitutional treaty. there was a temptation to dissolve the people instead of changing the policy. it was then the turn of mr blair to present himself as the solution to europe's problems, whereas it is clear that he is an integral part of these problems. in fact, its six months are coming to an end and not even an agreement on the budget has been reached yet. this is a failure for which you, mr barroso, are jointly responsible with mr blair, because you and your commission have supported all the crisis processes that are taking place, and have even accentuated them. what can we say about his most recent indications, when he spoke to us about simplification, which would in fact mean not doing the good things, like the reach directive, and instead doing the bad things, like the bolkestein directive? the point is that the liberal road is leading europe into a dead end. the problem is not europe, enlargement or turkey, but liberalism, and today you have again proposed this dead end. it takes more than that. it is necessary to define a plan for the revival of qualified development and social cohesion, capable of reproposing the european social model as an alternative to the north american model and not as a bad copy of it. this requires a more substantial and not reduced to the bone budget, a package of rules that promotes upward harmonization and not the social dumping of the bolkestein directive. we need cooperation within europe and with other countries to revive qualified development and not foolish competition or the failed dictatorship of the wto. we must put innovation and the environment first and not the ridiculous and disastrous revival of nuclear power. we need communication networks that respect the environment and do not allow it to be destroyed. we must grant citizenship to immigrants and ensure that there are no more incidents like those in lampedusa or melilla. democracy must be guaranteed and not the so-called security packages, which are a violation of democratic prerogatives and have been rejected by the british parliament. we must choose peace over war. we must give priority to a democratic parliament and not to a bureaucratic power among others. finally, we need left-wing governments that look to change and not to large, untenable coalitions. we propose an alternative european left, increasingly united to a european society that wants to change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. europe is facing clear and urgent challenges. without a doubt, the 20th century brought the old continent to levels of freedom, progress and prosperity never before achieved. however, this extraordinary growth has also generated new problems, which cause imbalances, risks and tensions. the recent events in the french suburbs are a clear sign that security problems are no longer exclusively about dangers from outside our borders. once again, the news is calling us to look at what is happening in our own homes and to find solutions to everyday problems, which are so common and familiar that they too often escape our attention. we are living in an era of extraordinary development accompanied by exasperating stagnation, of potential that opens up a better future but also of germs that bring threats, of an increase in well-being that has nevertheless led to the emergence of new diseases. it is clear that there is still a long way to go. we share the highlights of the proposal under consideration. the commission's work programme, presented with conviction by president barroso on time, is rightly focused on a number of key objectives, namely prosperity, solidarity and security and the role of the union as a global partner. these are issues which require a sustained effort, an effective strategy and, consequently, adequate resources for the implementation of measures which can have a real impact on the european socioeconomic fabric.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate president barroso on the report he has presented this morning. however, i too, like many of my colleagues, ask him to set priorities in such a way that we clearly define the package of proposals and the objectives we want to achieve in the next five years. we all remember that the previous prodi commission was able to achieve only 50% of what was originally planned in its programme. i think that these initiatives are not useful, especially for a europe which needs to believe in europe. the first suggestion i would make to you is therefore to combine and to establish as much as possible a priority order among the objectives we want to achieve. then we will certainly have to deal with the other big issues. the report you presented this morning covered a great many points. as coordinator within the epp and the committee on women's rights, i would like to stress one particular point, on which you have undoubtedly committed yourself to doing something important, namely the creation of a road map on gender equality. i would also like to draw attention to the issue of work. you know that today in europe there is a clash between those who have more rights and those who have fewer rights, between those who have a job and those who do not, between those who can afford a school and a quality education and those who do not have access to it, as is happening in the suburbs of paris. this is a problem which affects one country today, but which may affect others tomorrow. in this respect the role of women in the community and especially the role of women in the world of work are fundamental. it is therefore necessary to address, in the framework of the lisbon strategy, the issue of the low participation of women in the labour market, who are often forced to perform unskilled and underpaid work.
i thank mrs gröner and i assure her that, as far as the bureau is concerned, we will immediately forward this report to the quaestors' office, to verify first of all whether the initiative was actually authorized and to ascertain whether, in relation to its content, the conditions exist for requesting its immediate suspension.
we accept the motion within the time-limit laid down in the rules of procedure.
as regards the last point, i can assure mr posselt that the bureau has no intention of censuring him in any way. we have only to check, through the quaestors, whether the practice and the procedure for authorization have actually been respected and whether, in the content, the forms and the images, the initiative and the demonstration are in accordance with the rules of parliament and the practice which we follow on every occasion, a check which i imagine will be promptly carried out by the quaestors' office, without the latter becoming censors.
the rapporteur. i have to inform the house that if this text is adopted as it stands, agreement has been reached with the council on it and it could therefore be adopted at first reading. i would ask the commission, however, to take account in its work on other regulations of certain amendments tabled by colleagues from the pse and the ppe which, for legal reasons, we have not been able to include at this stage. these are amendments concerning birth and adoption allowances and therefore the possibility of introducing these social security schemes within the union and of encouraging the mobility of workers. i therefore ask that these aspects, on which there was already a common view, be included in the forthcoming regulations.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the technical amendments which the daul report proposes to introduce into the regulation on the common organization of the market in wine are aimed at further developing the practices of oenological treatment and therefore, in my view, seem to be moving in the direction which i would like to see a greater extension of the european offer of products in this sector. moreover, in view of the indispensable need to protect the consumer (now that fraud and counterfeiting of foodstuffs are not 'stepping up' despite the efforts of the institutions and the police), and in view of the competitiveness of european products, which can only 'keep' on the international market by winning the quality challenge, it is all the more essential to ensure better control of the production process and the subsequent stages of product preservation. i also support the proposed derogations for sparkling wine production, because they are in defence of the italian market, but also of the artisan culture and tradition, which i will not tire of safeguarding. finally, i also think it useful to extend the scope of the labelling of products. i therefore supported and asked the unattached group to support the excellent daul report.
in writing. mr president, this is yet another mad proof of the vain, harmful and empty pretence of this parliament to ignore and be distant from the popular sensibilities of the european citizens it claims to represent. instead of "social dimension of globalisation" we should read "defence of the criminal dimension of globalisation". rather than vote no, perhaps i should have simply walked away from the courtroom.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! i would like to start this debate by congratulating all the committees and many individual members of those committees who have taken part in the debate on reach. reach is one of the most far-reaching proposals the commission has ever adopted. the committees and their members have done a tremendous amount of work to analyse this proposal in detail and to come up with suggestions for improvement. i would like to thank in particular mr sacconi, who, as rapporteur for the committee responsible and as a staunch advocate of improvements in health and environmental protection, was open to compromise. i would also like to thank mr nassauer, who, as the author of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and as a defender of the policy objectives of competitiveness and innovation, was also prepared to make sensible compromises. i thank mrs ek, who drafted the opinion of the committee on industry. it has also been very active, raising concerns of industry without losing sight of the important aspects of health and environmental protection. the organisational effort for this legislative project was also enormous here in parliament. the commission also found it difficult to find answers to over 1000 amendments and to reach agreement. we will be able to explain in detail our position on the compromise package of mr sacconi and mr nassauer and also give details of the amendments tabled at an early stage. i would ask for your understanding that the amendments tabled just before the deadline for tabling amendments are no longer being dealt with in full by the commission, and i must therefore withhold the commission's position on this. but we shall take a position as soon as possible on the other motions which will be voted on by a majority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission supports the compromise proposals by mr sacconi and mr nassauer on registration and exchange of information. we believe that they strike a very good balance between the need for the competitiveness of our industry on the one hand and progress in health and environmental protection on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. however, there will also be situations where companies are not interested in cooperation for cost reasons, for example, and where substantial business interests are adversely affected by the exchange of information. i am therefore grateful that a system has been found which ensures that the burden of this system on businesses and the agency is kept to a minimum in terms of the conditions for data exchange. the amendments in this respect are motivated by three elements: the first is to define the scope of the directive in terms of content. secondly, to exclude from the scope of application certain other substances for which no risk is identified, and thirdly, to avoid duplication of legislation. the commission accepts the clarifications for exemptions from the scope of the regulation, in particular for waste, food, biocides and pesticides. we also accept that it is made clear that the rules of the cosmetics directive on the prevention of animal testing cannot be changed or circumvented by reach. as regards certain substances, we accept that the requirements for minerals, ores and ore concentrates, as well as for naturally occurring substances, are being clarified. the requirements for downstream users: the commission supports the introduction of a threshold of one tonne per year for cases where downstream users are required to prepare their own substance safety report. this is necessary to ensure that downstream users are not placed at a disadvantage in relation to their suppliers and also to ensure that the system is more generally acceptable to them. risk assessment: there is a clear desire on the part of various committees to strengthen the role of the agency. the commission accepts the merits of such an approach in the light of a more uniform and consistent application of the rules of the regulation. we must be careful, however, about the actual design. the reality is that there is only a limited supply of expertise. much of this expertise is held by the competent authorities of the member states or by scientific institutes in the member states. it is important that these resources can be used in an optimal way in a joint way. the authorisation procedure: this is one of the most important, if not the cornerstone, of the whole reach regulation. on the one hand, we want to find an efficient instrument to provide incentives for companies to substitute workable alternatives for substances of concern. but we do not want to create a system which puts manufacturers of substances in the eu at a competitive disadvantage. many hightech companies are affected and the innovative use of chemicals is crucial to maintain the competitiveness of such companies vis-à-vis the us, china and other asian countries. we must also avoid over- and inefficiently burdening the agency and the commission. we must also maintain the concept of risk as a key concept in the authorization procedure and thus the effort to control risk appropriately. in addition, companies must be able to demonstrate that they are successful in this respect. we can agree to a procedural step where the agency publishes information on its work programme for authorisation, namely which substances it will select to propose to the commission as candidates for the authorisation procedure within a foreseeable timeframe. this is good for industry, as it will increase the planning certainty for businesses. we could also accept that the agency's approval of substances would be accompanied by a review clause on a case-by-case basis. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the substance in the products. this is a difficult debate, which is not politically controversial, but is motivated by objective factual difficulties. the first is to create a level playing field for manufacturers and importers of products. the second is to address problems arising from the importation of products whose ingredients would not be subject to the same requirements as products made from registered substances. imports also affect many components which are processed by european industry into end products. finally, it is essential to comply with wto rules which require risk-based regulation. the commission therefore supports proposals which are practical and wto-compliant. the proposed regulations for substances intended to be released from products appear to the commission to be sound. for other substances in products, it is necessary to find a system that is easy for companies to apply and that is geared towards identifying risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used for other purposes. others want to reduce the list and have more information available for publication on the internet. the commission considers that its compromise proposal strikes the right balance in the end. our aim should be to make information available on the internet that is really needed to ensure the protection of the health of our citizens and the environment. over time, the agency will play an important role in communication and also in consumer information. however, this is not the main stated objective of the reach regulation. on the other hand, we must not be complacent. europe and the companies have a great deal of knowledge and experience in the use of chemicals. this knowledge would certainly be of great economic interest to competitors outside europe. and within europe too, we must ensure that the competitive position of individual companies is not undermined. it is therefore possible that we may need to make some changes to the text in order to bring the practical application of reach into line with the provisions of the aarhus convention. this concerns in particular requirements for tight timeframes for opposition decisions. the amendments deal with many other specific issues. time does not allow me to address all of them. but i would like to point out amendments concerning the agency: they concern a wide range of issues concerning the mandate of the agency, they concern the cooperation of the committees within the agency, the composition of the administrative board and the appointment of the director. the commission's position on these amendments is based on pragmatism. we are open and constructive to proposals to make the agency more efficient. we must avoid placing additional burdens on the agency. the more tasks we put on the agency, the greater the risk that we jeopardize the successful launch of the agency. in this context, i would also like to stress to the budgetary authority that the transfer of additional tasks to the agency must of course be accompanied by a corresponding increase in financial resources. the commission therefore hopes that parliament will be able to give its consent to the compromise package presented by mr sacconi and mr nassauer. we believe that this package can help to build a broad base of support for a piece of legislation that is among the most difficult, complex and certainly controversial since the founding of the european union. the commission has always seen its role throughout the debate as being to help find a sensible, pragmatic solution to reach, one that strikes the right balance between economic requirements and health and environmental objectives. we believe that this balance will be achieved by the compromise proposals. we do not see this as weakening the commission's original proposal. i want to make this very clear. we believe that this compromise package makes the proposal easier to manage, more effective and also more cost-effective and that even the environmental and health policy objectives are better achieved in this way. that is why the commission has reached this positive conclusion at today's meeting. i hope that this will also be a strong encouragement to the council to adopt the overall package later this year. the proposals on which the commission has given a favourable opinion are very dense in comparison with the proposals already put forward by the british presidency, so that i now see an extremely favourable opportunity to bring this very difficult piece of legislation to a successful conclusion before the end of this year.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament for the very intensive work it has done on this proposal at first reading. i would like to congratulate in particular the chairman of the committee on the environment and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and, of course, the rapporteur, mr sacconi, who, with his tireless and always constructive efforts, has made a decisive contribution to the progress of this proposal. i would also like to thank the committees on the internal market and industry and their rapporteurs, mr nassauer and mrs ek, for their constructive proposals. they all worked together, they all put in the effort and they came up with this compromise solution that they are proposing with regard to one of the main elements of the reach system, registration. reach is a very important legislative initiative to improve the protection of the environment and human health and, when implemented, will significantly increase our knowledge of chemicals, improve their safety and enhance consumer confidence in the chemicals with which they come into contact. it will also stimulate innovation and encourage the substitution of safer products. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament and the council are finalising their position on the proposal. in this way, the two community institutions are converging in their views and now have related approaches on many issues related to reach issues. the compromise package on the issue of registration proposed by mr sacconi and mr nassauer and signed by the european people's party, the european socialist party and the liberal, democratic and reformist party is a positive step forward in one of the most complex chapters of the reach dossier. the compromise package is a balanced proposal. by focusing the proposal on substances with the highest degree of risk, this compromise improves the functionality of the reach proposal, particularly with regard to substances produced or used in small quantities. at the same time, it ensures a high level of environmental protection by requiring more information where the risk is greatest. although this approach for substances produced or used in small quantities differs from the commission proposal, it is nevertheless a significant improvement in the protection of health and the environment compared to the current situation. the commission supports this package as part of the efforts to find a compromise solution. the compromise package is aimed in the same direction as the discussions in the council. it also has many similarities with the compromise proposal tabled by the british presidency on 28 october and which was widely accepted at coreper last friday. the commission fully supports the british presidency's objective of reaching a political agreement before the end of the year and will make every effort to that end and will contribute positively to that objective. there are many important aspects to the reach initiative but, for lack of time, i would like to mention two of them. the scope of the proposal and the provisions on licensing. the scope of the proposal is a rather complex subject, mainly because of the large number of community legislation texts concerning specific products containing chemicals. the commission is able to accept several of the amendments tabled in parliament, such as the exemption from registration of waste, foodstuffs and minerals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. on the subject of licensing and substitution, i am pleased to see that members of parliament have tabled a significant number of valuable amendments which place time limits on licensing and increase the pressure for substitution and thus will enhance the protection of human health and the environment. the commission agrees with the need to authorise substances that cause a similar degree of risk concern to the most dangerous substances listed in the commission proposal. the carcinogenic, mutagenic, resistant bioaccumulating and highly resistant and highly bioaccumulating. we also agree with the time limit for authorizations, but the duration will be decided on a case-by-case basis by the european chemicals agency. at the same time, we believe that this regulation, in conjunction with article 52, as amended by the british presidency, will have a positive impact on substitution, as companies will be pressured to intensify their efforts to find substitutes and safer substances. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again all the members of the european parliament who have worked so hard over the last nine months to make progress on the reach proposal. in this way, the european parliament is making a decisive contribution to improving the level of protection of health and the environment in europe, while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the members of this parliament for their hard work on reach, and in particular the key committees and their members. it is an honour to be invited here to speak on behalf of the uk presidency. firstly, i would like to emphasise that reach is a very important dossier for the uk presidency. this legislation offers a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to achieve proper protection for humans and the environment while at the same time being workable and maintaining the competitiveness of european industry. we all want to find a good solution on reach, one that both enhances protection of public health and the environment and maintains industrial competitiveness. this objective can only be attained with the cooperation of all member states, the european parliament and stakeholders. reach will feature strongly at the competitiveness council on 29 november, where we plan to hold a serious and substantive policy debate, so your views will be important in feeding into that. we recognise that we are very close to a deal, and we still intend to achieve political agreement before the end of the uk presidency. i am heartened by the commitment shown by the european parliament in having its first reading this week. we welcome the work done by the rapporteurs to achieve a balanced and workable compromise on the key aspect of reach, namely registration. the main elements of this compromise, co-signed by the three main political groups, are very close to the ideas that the council is working on. therefore, adoption of a european parliament opinion along these lines should pave the way for an early adoption of reach. this would be good news for the environment and for industry, bringing an end to uncertainty, and indeed good news for everyone. it would finally provide a more effective system for managing the risks presented by chemicals in order to protect human health and the environment. the presidency’s compromise text aims to represent a balanced consideration of the views expressed by member states in the discussions to date. it acknowledges the concerns of industry and meets them. it maintains the objectives of reach in the field of protecting human health and the environment. we look forward to taking on board contributions from the european parliament once you have completed your considerations. in explaining the direction the presidency is taking i hope to further inform this debate. let me start at the beginning, with registration. the challenge for us all is to agree a registration package that collects the information necessary to assess the risks. at the same time it must be proportionate. we must avoid forcing companies to provide data just for the sake of it. we all share the same concerns and want to ensure reach does not adversely impact on small firms. the following number among our shared proposals on registration: firstly, having a single pre-registration phase to simplify the procedure; secondly, requiring data sharing through ‘one substance, one registration’. this could deliver savings of up to eur 600 million. we have also introduced flexibility by proposing clear criteria for companies to opt out of submitting a joint information package. it is generally accepted that the sharing of animal test data should be mandatory. however, to simplify the system, the sharing of non-animal data has been made mandatory only if requested by a potential registrant. like parliament, the council is concerned about the impacts on small firms. to reduce these impacts, a proposal for targeted information requirements for low volume substances has been put forward. below ten tonnes, a full data set only needs to be provided on a substance if it meets simple criteria identifying it as high risk. under this approach, not as much information will be provided about the substances as in the original commission proposal, but it does mean that we can apply a simplified risk-based approach for the 20 000 low volume substances, and focus on those of concern in the first instance. in order to reduce the burden on industry, and particularly on small firms, the chemicals agency will provide tools to facilitate the submission of data. we have reduced the cost of registration in the higher 10-100 tonnage band by removing an expensive test from the data requirements. this led to a saving of around eur 80 million. in addition, the ability to waive certain tests under annex vi has been strengthened to minimise the burden for testing at the higher tonnage bands. i want to emphasise that this can be done in a way that still delivers the necessary information about the hazards and risks of substances. i now turn to evaluation. here the registration is checked for compliance or referred for further scrutiny. the compromise text gives the chemicals agency, based in finland, a more central role in this phase of reach. we want to ensure that evaluation is carried out more efficiently and consistently across the eu and that the agency has the tools and resources to ensure this happens. again, i do not think that the council’s position is too far from that of parliament on this. a similar approach has been taken in the reports from the parliamentary committees which have given their opinion. a key part of this proposal, of course, is the authorisation stage. reach requires any substance of very high concern to be banned unless a strong case for authorisation is made justifying its continued use. in the council, we have clarified the scope and have strengthened the authorisation provisions to provide a greater drive towards substitution. the compromise proposal retains the possibility of a first authorisation based solely on adequate control – that is, you can continue to use a hazardous substance if you can demonstrate that the risks are contained. but – and it is a big ‘but’ – adequate control must be tightly defined. it is now tighter in our proposal. it is clearer. it is right that all decisions should be made on a case-by-case basis. therefore, an amendment has been introduced in our proposal to require all authorisations to be subject to a review. this would enable further consideration of the availability of alternatives in the future. in addition, substitution has been further encouraged in our proposal by the requirement to provide an analysis of possible alternatives. i look forward to the opinion from parliament. if i have not managed to persuade you of the vital importance to all the citizens of europe of securing an early agreement on reach, then i have failed. i hope i have been able to give you an insight into the discussions taking place in council. for our part, we will continue working in our role as the presidency to do all we possibly can to get agreement this year. we believe we can. we look forward to receiving the contribution of the european parliament. let me repeat, this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. let us not throw it away.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the speeches of the two commissioners and minister lord bach, who represented the british presidency, i have reflected on the long way we have come to get to this point. you yourself have heard how close the positions between the three institutions have become and i think i can say that on no principle, on matters such as registration, authorization and other matters that have been mentioned, are there any significant differences of opinion. it is difficult to sum up this long journey in a few minutes, although this is the longest speaking time i have been allowed to have in my time in this parliament. i shall therefore only say a few words on two key concepts: balance and responsibility. these are words that have come to mind this weekend, which i spent almost entirely doing some sort of soul-searching. even after the attacks last week on the compromise i signed, i have really wondered whether the right decision was taken and whether a balance was actually struck, and i feel in all conscience that i can answer in the affirmative. we have not only safeguarded but also strengthened the balance between those two essential aspects which are of paramount importance to us all, namely the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the competitiveness of the european industrial system on the other. it is easier to strike that balance when we adopt a political resolution, because then we are only dealing with words. it is a little more difficult to find a balance in a regulation of this size, when so many interests are at stake, often in conflict with each other. in such circumstances, it is also necessary to deal with technical data of great depth and importance. from this point of view, i feel that my conscience is clear. as regards human health and the environment - and i shall merely mention some of the improvements in the commission's proposal which i particularly attach great importance to - we are moving forward with the registration of persistent bioaccumulative substances and introducing the chemical safety report - if, of course, this parliament will approve this choice - also for the lowest tonnages, as well as for the most dangerous substances. if parliament approves the position taken by the committee on the environment on thursday, we will establish an authorization mechanism for the substitution of the most dangerous substances, very similar to what the british presidency was telling us a short while ago. i'm particularly proud of that. i shall only mention the most important things that have been done in the field of enterprises. by maintaining the burden of proof, we have made the recording mechanisms for small tonnages more flexible and we have introduced something very important for small businesses, namely data sharing, which has become mandatory, even with certain opt-out mechanisms. i would also like to point out that together with mr nassauer we extended the period for data protection and research and development in extremis. i think they're all concrete facts that go in a very specific direction. in this connection, mr nassauer, i must say that during my weekend of reflection and examination of conscience i was somewhat struck by the fact that, after the compromise reached, you also considered it appropriate to table your old set of amendments. i would like to say that if, unfortunately, our compromise is not adopted, i will of course support the other block, number 2. i am optimistic about this. i would now like to turn to the second word, responsibility, to which i would add the word autonomy. we have been subjected to a great deal of pressure, albeit legitimate, on the basis of interests which we must all represent in some way, and we have tried to strike the best possible balance, one which is compatible with a majority in the european parliament. we have come close to that objective and in the meantime the positions of the various institutions, and in particular of the two legislatures, the council and parliament, have also come very close. i think it is now up to parliament, so to speak, to strike a blow. we are aware that many aspects of the european construction are in crisis at the moment. however, today, on such an important subject, the european parliament can send a very strong and clear message to citizens, businesses and trade unions about its capacity to decide and to strike a balance which is, by definition, as representative as possible of all the interests at stake. mr. president, my work here ends. of course, i'll have to pay attention to the voting list for the next few hours, but let's just say that the bulk of my work is done. as lord bach and commissioner verheugen have said before, we must now seize the opportunity to speed up the decision-making and legislative process on this dossier which has seen us so committed. i recently said that an agreement is like a fruit: if it is not reaped in its season, when it is ripe, it will rot and become bad. i have been carrying an apple in my pocket since this morning, which is not very pretty, it is small and also full of bruises, because it is organically grown and does not contain any anti-cryptogams, but i think it will be delicious so i will eat it later. i therefore urge parliament to take advantage of this opportunity and in so doing we will also help the other institutions, in particular the council, to finally close this dossier and to convey the message i have just mentioned.
before i go on, i would like to remind you that rule 122 of the rules of procedure on personal statements gives members who are mentioned in speeches the opportunity to ask to speak, which will be granted to them at the end of the debate. if everyone quotes mr nassauer, it is clear that at the end of the debate he will be able to ask for dozens of speeches on his own behalf.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to take up the point made by mr sacconi, who spent last sunday reconsidering this measure, which is certainly balanced but which also entails great responsibility. i think, however, that mr sacconi has made some fundamental mistakes, especially in terms of reports, because, in order to reach a compromise, he should have had to think about it together with the committee on the environment, otherwise it is a purely personal position and not a position of the committee. that is why, mr sacconi, i think you have made a mistake in the first place by refusing to look for a solution which could be as general as possible. in this connection, i should like to make a few comments on the osor system. i think we should try to find a solution which separates the osor system from the reach package, because in this way, as has been pointed out on several occasions, small and mediumsized enterprises are not protected. it would also be useful to have a talk on tonnage in cases where costs become too high. however, i believe that in the case of dangerous products, the costs of tonnage should be duly considered without ever losing sight of the hazardousness aspect. i also disagree with the decision to divide the list of products into two parts, as this would discriminate against certain dangerous products and certain companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of such a far-reaching measure, it is important to strike the right balance between the insurmountable need to protect the health of citizens, workers and consumers on the one hand, and the need to support the economic and employment weight of the chemical industry in europe on the other. this industry is not only represented by the large enterprises of a few countries, but also by the small, sometimes very small, and mediumsized enterprises of countries like my own, italy. i therefore believe that the work of convergence and rapprochement between very different and distant starting positions, which has been done in the compromise, can be considered positive, because it takes account of all the many reasons and realities at stake. the points i consider important are the need to protect the health of citizens, consumer information, support for small and mediumsized enterprises in the implementation of reach, including support for research, the creation of a strong agency with real powers, the simplification of procedures for small and mediumsized enterprises and, finally, the importance of the osor programme, without providing for too many exceptions, as i believe that data sharing and cost sharing are important elements for our small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, i believe that certain rules should be defined for imported products, since the same rules apply to these products as we apply to european products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, against reach there is a real clash of forces which we can call anti-european. they are the forces of the wild market, deregulation, profit speculation on health and the environment. all these forces represent a distortion of the principles underlying a harmonized social and environmental europe. we have not, frankly, appreciated the behaviour of commission president barroso. we believe that these forces must be met with firmness and determination. that is why we have not shared and strongly criticised the bad compromises that have been reached, which risk draining reach enormously, without even countering the forces that want it dead. that is why we are proposing again in this house - and i think also with the support of the broad movement which is trying to get this parliament to legislate better - all the necessary texts to have a strong reach regulation, that is to say what is really needed for a modern europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing today has among its main objectives the protection of human health and the environment. however, it has also set itself the objective of maintaining and strengthening the competitiveness of the eu chemical industry and increasing transparency in the interest of consumers. in this connection, it is necessary to emphasize the impact of this new regulation on small and mediumsized enterprises in the member states, which are the ones who will be most affected by the new administrative and bureaucratic costs that will result. this is linked to the economic role of small and mediumsized enterprises in the chemical industry. of the 22 000 chemical industries in europe, 96% are smes, accounting for 28% of production. it is therefore necessary to reflect on the negative impact on production costs, which will be heavier and more burdensome for smes, and on the loss of competitiveness inside and outside the common market due to the higher cost of finished products. in the light of the above, i consider the application of the osor principle and the possibility of forming consortia between companies to reduce costs and unnecessary experiments to be very important, but at the same time i am suspicious of the many opt-outs provided for by the compromise on registration, which seem to undermine the principle itself. secondly, i believe that it is essential, for the very purpose of implementing the priorities and objectives that reach aims to achieve, that all imported products are subject to safety standards equivalent to those in force for products manufactured in the european union. i would like the european union, which is often at the forefront of difficult environmental battles - think of climate change and the kyoto protocol - to take on these needs and negotiate with the wto the extension of these rules to all countries producing substances and articles, insisting on the need to apply the principle of traceability of substances. that is why i am also opposed to the extension to products destined for third countries.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make just three very quick remarks. first of all, i would like to respond to the criticism that has been levelled at me by various colleagues, including mr breyer and mr foglietta, that i would have expressed my personal position and not that of the committee on the environment. it may be that i was wrong, and in that case i sincerely apologize. however, as the parliament's lead rapporteur, i feel i have a responsibility to the house to work towards building the broadest and strongest possible majority. it is for this reason that i have considered the compromise we have been talking about to be useful, possible and necessary. to get to reach, a compromise had to be reached. before we assess whether reach is a strong regulation - we will have time to do a careful analysis after the vote - we have an urgent need for a reach regulation and we know the fundamental attacks that have been made on it in recent weeks. on the other hand, i think that the principles which i had publicly declared to be inapplicable have not been overcome, since the burden of proof has been retained for small tonnages, whereby 30% of those substances will have to be subject to full documentation. i challenge anyone to contradict my assessment on this point. i would like to mention here the example of the osor principle, which for the first time, thanks to the compromise, has been widely accepted in parliament, whereas it had previously been adopted only by the committee on the environment. the opt-out criteria are certainly being tweaked, but the final word on whether to opt out of data sharing is up to the agency. finally, i would like to thank all my colleagues, especially the rapporteurs, but above all those very important resources which we should perhaps put to better use, namely the officials and the secretariat of parliament. we have come this far also, and perhaps mainly, because of the extraordinary work of so many officials.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the second stage of enlargement is a further step towards the european union's full reunification. may 1st 2004 is a date which has entered the history of our continent, not only because of the greater political weight it has acquired, but also because of the cultural enrichment it has brought. it is important to continue along this path, but only after consolidating the present union and without losing sight of what must be the fundamental precondition for the accession of other countries, namely respect for the acquis communautaire and the founding principles of the union. this is not a purely formal matter, but becomes a substantive one when the legislation of the countries which have applied for membership violates these principles. as i pointed out in my written question of 26 october last, discrimination against italian citizens in croatia continues in terms of access to the housing market, which is guaranteed to other countries of the union. i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether it is acceptable for a country which is seeking to join the union to discriminate against the citizens of a member state, in clear violation of community principles, and whether the commission is prepared to include in the negotiations the recognition of free access to the croatian property market for italian citizens. discrimination, even before it has negative legal effect, has an incalculable civil and human impact. institutions that practice it cannot consider themselves credible and trustworthy. the principle of equal rights distinguishes civil and democratic countries from those which cannot be so unless this principle is embodied in their legislation. we are not opposed to croatia's accession to the european union, but only on condition that it respects the standards of property ownership that have been established throughout the west and that it finally settles the long-running dispute with the dalmatian exiles who are still awaiting justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the views that commissioner rehn has put to the attention of this parliament with regard to the countries of the stabilisation and association pact area. several colleagues have already pointed out that this area, although still fragile, is showing positive signs in a process which has already characterized the other enlargements of our union. enlargement has been positive since its preparation. the prospect of opening negotiations has often accelerated the transition of eastern european countries from totalitarian regimes to convinced and well-established democratic regimes, and has inspired delicate and difficult reforms in turkey itself. however, i must also take account of what mr brok has said. we are facing an enlargement which consists of ten countries which have already joined, to which are added bulgaria and romania, countries which i believe should be commended for their efforts, as the commissioner did in presenting his report last month. i also think it is appropriate to reflect on the new candidate countries. i have noticed that the words of my colleague, mrs muscardini, have caused a certain amount of hilarity among some of my colleagues, whereas they should be taken very seriously. i believe that croatia should show greater consistency in the various problems that have arisen in relation to free access to the housing market. this is a matter which must be taken seriously, because i believe that consistency has no latitude or longitude. we ask that the countries wishing to join the union should demonstrate this consistency, not only in terms of full cooperation with the international criminal court, as the commissioner has pointed out, but also in terms of all those conditions which must be common to all countries which believe in free markets and the freedom of democracy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this debate is of strategic importance in the context of the policies of the european union. the problem which has been brought to our attention is that of the bohunice nuclear power station in slovakia and the concomitant problem of the use of financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. the first concerns the application of protocol no 9 annexed to the act concerning the conditions of accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia. article 3 of the said protocol provides for the continuation of financial aid for the decommissioning of reactors 1 and 2 at the bohunice power station. we believe that the greatest financial effort should be made to secure bohunice 1 and 2 as part of their decommissioning. however, the problem i want to raise is that of the overall security of our continent and the concomitant problem of how that security can be pursued together with appropriate and effective energy supply policies, such as to ensure the adequate financial competitiveness of the european system in the face of the challenges of innovation and development. there are 155 power reactors operating in europe today, of which at least a third will have to be decommissioned in the next few years. the decommissioning of 50 or 60 power reactors will entail a cost that realistically approaches eur 50 billion. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the nuclear power stations in the new member states are equipped with the necessary safety equipment and that the necessary safety equipment is provided. a second problem concerns the need to prepare a detailed study of the costs and benefits of a nuclear power station, comparing these parameters with the installation and decommissioning costs, which are obviously related to the average life of the reactors installed. on the basis of the results of this study, it will be possible and necessary to make definitive and courageous choices in one direction or the other. a final and no less serious problem concerns what happens outside europe. today, there are 440 reactors operating worldwide, with 25 under construction. after chernobyl, world public opinion was astonished by the state of degradation and grave danger to humanity of many reactors, many of which are located in the former soviet union. in view of this, does parliament not consider that it should recommend to the commission that negotiations be opened with the united states and russia and all the countries concerned in order to initiate a policy of security and rehabilitation for the whole planet?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. iraq is struggling, but with determination, to lift its head from the bloody and in many ways insane dictatorship of saddam hussein and from the events of recent years, which have undoubtedly opened the way to change, but have also caused deep wounds to the iraqi people. the next step, under the auspices of the international community, should be the progressive involvement of all the arab states in the region in the whole process of democratization and the fight against terrorism. the extraordinary success of the recent election campaign is a historic event, but it is our clear duty to continue to stand by the iraqi people and the free authorities who are running the country. we must give practical help to the many young people who, with great courage and often at personal risk, want to fight to make iraq a free, democratic and just country at last.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the elections, the referendum and the new vote scheduled for 15 december show that a genuine democracy is emerging in iraq after decades of bloody dictatorship. this is a success for the iraqi people who, by their participation in the vote, have shown that they want to make a strong contribution to the building of peace in the middle east. at great cost and with hundreds of innocent victims, the supporters of democracy are defeating the small minority who, in the name of fundamentalism, practice terrorism. however, the ultimate goal has not yet been achieved and much remains to be done to defeat al qaeda and its allies and to bring final stability to iraq. the european union, although late and after overcoming many divisions, has begun to make an important contribution. i agree with the words of the council representative and commissioner ferrero-waldner. however, we must do even more for those people, of course together with the un, which, with resolution 1546, allowed 35 countries to make an important contribution to the birth of this new democracy. this is an economic contribution, like that collected by the united nations democracy fund, but also a political and military contribution. many european citizens are taking part in the peace mission and it is to them that we must be grateful for what they have done and continue to do, even offering their lives, in order to make a fundamental contribution to the resurrection of iraq. these military and civilian personnel, among whom there are many italians, have given rise to thousands of projects for the construction of infrastructure in the fields of agriculture, transport, education and culture. the strategy of success is leading to a reduction in military contingents, which will leave iraq in agreement between them and the legitimate government in baghdad. today, many critics of this peace intervention are coming to their senses and are realizing the importance of the mission. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that it would be wrong to think that the solution of the iraqi crisis will be sufficient to bring peace to the middle east. we must resolve the israeli-palestinian crisis, with a major contribution from the european union, by creating security for israel and a palestinian state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not a mere exercise in style, but it needs roots which have not yet been planted in iraq. let's face the facts. the kurds went to vote because they see the independence of their provinces looming on the horizon, the shiites to respect the order of their religious leaders and the few sunnis to avoid being completely forgotten in the new rearrangement of the country. the primary conditions for democracy to take root are security, economic security, the existence of a functioning state apparatus and the equality of all citizens before the law. the reality is that the project of exporting democracy on the wings of fighter-bombers has failed and that the military occupation of the country by western powers is now preventing any solid and tangible progress. on the other hand, iraq has become an exporting country, and not just of oil. the bombings in jordan have shown this: iraq is now exporting its terrorism. the suicide bombers who blew themselves up were actually iraqis. a woman who was supposed to be involved in the bombings but survived, explained that her family was decimated during the us offensive in the sunni triangle. i too therefore strongly urge that the un investigate the use by american forces of banned white phosphorus bombs. iraq thus looks dangerously like a new afghanistan. bush wanted to fight terrorists in afghanistan so he wouldn't have to fight them elsewhere, but today the terrorists are already elsewhere and we wonder how far they will go. europe is therefore faced with two challenges: the stubbornness of those who continue to claim that the iraqi campaign is a success and the murderous determination of those who prove every day that it is a dramatic failure. to get out of this quagmire we need neither propaganda nor reassuring stories, but lucidity and courageous statesmen, capable of recognizing their mistakes and of drawing up a new strategy, a strategy of peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greenhouse effect is the greatest problem we have to face, because it involves a structural change in the conditions of life. the ability to deal with this problem must be a primary element of our action. to this end, we must take the kyoto strategy and its implementation as a priority for all our choices, as a legal and planning basis and as a key element of europe's internal and international policy, starting from montreal. the kyoto protocol's two pillars, convergence and reduction, tell us that development and economic models must change radically and be geared towards a more rational and equitable management of resources. i think you can get to one tep per human. this commitment must lead us to save and use renewable alternative sources, managed democratically. in view of this objective and this need, any idea of resorting to nuclear energy, which is a finite resource with a very high risk, with unsolvable problems such as waste, and an undemocratic resource, is truly unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that mr wijkman's report - and i hope the honourable member does not blame me - is wrong from the very title. man has never won and will never win the battle against climate change, because his influence on it is limited and not yet scientifically proven. i think that the wish to reduce harmful and potentially climate-altering emissions is one that can be shared by all, but there is a big difference between that and the approval of a document of dubious scientific merit, even presumptuous in its objectives. in this connection, it is sufficient to quote paragraphs 2 and 3 after recital m, which seek to limit the average increase in the temperature of the planet to two degrees above pre-industrial levels, for which, among other things, there are no reliable records and data. i also disagree with the claim that the european union should commit itself to helping china, india, brazil and south africa financially to develop sustainable energy strategies. it would be more appropriate to apply sanctions and trade restrictions to the industrialized countries, including the united states, and the developing countries mentioned above, if their production continues to harm the environment and is, more generally, of very little social interest. i therefore, in the light of what has just been said, cast my vote against.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister straw, to paraphrase your opening remarks, i am here and i disagree. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the european union. firstly, the commission's long-awaited platform on the european social model has proved rather disappointing. there is no real strategy and no ambition for a genuine recovery of the european economy, but rather a policy of harm reduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. as far as president blair is concerned, the political balance is certainly not positive. in fact, despite the continuous façade reassurances, there is no agreement on the financial perspective, which is obviously the core of the problem. in conclusion, there is no real intention to discuss the unfair british cheque. this is a privilege paid for mainly by italy and france, which are draining our respective countries of valuable resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems as if the heads of state and government meeting in hampton court were discussing this under a glass bell. the major social, economic and political issues, which have been raised in many previous speeches, have been achieved very poorly. i think it is very serious that, while cities are burning in half of europe, we are talking in such general and approximate terms about immigration and the social and economic emergency which is the cause of what is happening in paris, strasbourg and brussels. the challenge that these young people in revolt are throwing at us is a very serious and dangerous challenge, one that we should think seriously about when we talk about immigration. i do not mean to point the finger at these young people, but rather at those who have drawn up these wrong policies, against those who still speak of immigration in such bureaucratic, generic and superficial terms. we lost the immigration challenge. immigration policies have been a failure for europe and i think it is our duty to take note of this and discuss it. i think that this summit should have given some indication of this and i think that the solution proposed by the commission, namely the allocation of a handful of money to the paris banlieues, is not an appropriate response. we must instead act upstream, change policy and curb the divergent choices, such as easy family reunification or easy nationality recognition. in short, we need a serious immigration policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr president barroso, the meeting of the prime ministers and heads of state at hampton court is a significant recognition of the difficulties facing the european union today. the climate of renewed calm among the 25 after the tensions of recent months and the willingness to conclude the negotiations on the financial perspective by december must be viewed positively. i would, however, like to draw the council's attention to the fact that no agreement can be reached on the basis of a lower price and, above all, that parliament's position cannot be ignored. the priorities identified by tony blair for the revival of europe, namely research, innovation and lifelong learning, are proposals to be shared, and they are also contained in our report on the financial perspective. the need for a european energy policy, increased community aid to the countries of transit for immigrants and the compensation fund for globalisation are also priority objectives for europe, but they require adequate financial resources. the citizens of the union are aware that no government can now, on its own, provide an answer to the most serious problems of the day, such as unemployment, precariousness, loss of competitiveness, international terrorism and illegal immigration. only europe can respond positively and guarantee the well-being and security of our countries. a meagre budget will not make it possible to meet these challenges, and the european council in october is a positive prerequisite. that is why we are looking with moderate optimism to the december summit.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to deal with two specific points and then comment more widely on the debate. mrs riis-jørgensen asked me about the court of auditors and she asked for a yes or no answer. my apologies, but i have to give a yes and a no because this matter is in the hands of finance ministers, and you know what they are like! the answer is that the ecofin council on 8 november adopted conclusions listing a range of actions for both the commission and member states. they talked about a roadmap which they said was vital, not least because it focuses greater attention on member states’ responsibility to improve their systems of auditing and to take responsibility for the money spent in their countries. my judgement is that where member states have control of the money, they ought properly to account for it as well. if they do not have control of it then the european union will have to account for it, but i am with you on encouraging our finance ministers to get a grip on this. nevertheless, this is the responsibility of the commission and of this parliament together. we all have responsibility for this. on the issue of transparency, which mr kirkhope raised with me, we will shortly be circulating an options paper with ideas for improving transparency, and essentially will be putting two options before the council. it will be up to the council to take a decision on the basis of a simple majority, as with all procedural issues, so i am glad to be able to satisfy you in this respect, mr kirkhope, if not in any others. colleagues here have been very frank, so i will be frank in return. my problem with what a number of colleagues have said is that people refer to the need for change and then say that the future for the european union nevertheless lies in the past. all i can say to colleagues here is that globalisation is a fact of life. the french, my comrade friend, may not like it, but we either have to deal with it or it will engulf all of us. i did not invent it, president barroso did not invent it and nor indeed did president chirac, but it is a fact of life. it has come about as a result of other policies that we have pursued over many years, namely to build up the world trade organization, to encourage free trade and to lift countries in asia, africa and latin america out of poverty, meaning that they now want to share in trade and they want to work to their competitive advantage, just as we have done in the past. that means that the old european economic and social model will not work to deliver prosperity, social justice and jobs in the way it used to. this is a big challenge, especially, if i may say so, for the country you represent, and for a number of others on the continent. however, i simply do not understand why you continue to clutch at old methods, such as inflexible methods of labour regulation, including the working time directive, which may have worked in the past but which cannot work for the future. france is a country which knows that, and it is for that reason there is a higher level of evasion in france than in other countries. france is one of those countries which goes in for saying, as we understand it, that people can be assessed on whether they work 48 hours a contract rather than 48 hours an employer. we do not want to be lectured about our employment practices when we enforce the law, even if it is inconvenient, by countries which bang the drum for enforcement and then go through the back door to ensure that the law is not enforced. this is a fact, and this parliament undermines confidence in its own measures if it turns a blind eye to what is going on when everyone knows that this has happened. moreover, it is better to be flexible. there is no european-wide requirement to set a minimum wage, which in my view is a fundamental human right. there is no requirement on it, however, and it is left to national governments. some countries have a minimum wage and some do not, so why should there be a dirigiste requirement across europe regardless of national circumstances and the nature of employment contracts, to set limits on working hours when the test for that ought to be health and safety? the countries that apparently have slightly longer hours actually have a better health and safety record than some other countries, including, my friend, your own. turning to the important issue of the budget, i listened very carefully to president barroso’s speech. he said that the defining issue of the british presidency will be the financial perspective, which is a test of whether europe is on the move. it certainly is a test of whether europe is on the move, but we do not regard it as the defining issue. if you asked me to bet on what historians will judge to be the defining issue of this presidency in ten or twenty years’ time, i would not bet on it being whether or not we reached agreement on the financial perspective in december, although i hope we do. i think it will be judged on the fact that on 3 october we agreed to start negotiations with croatia and turkey. that is what will help to shape europe for the future. i would remind colleagues that the last financial perspective was not agreed until the equivalent of the march council 2006, rather than the december council 2005. we very much hope that we can reach agreement, but it is going to be difficult. why? well, mr jonckheer spoke of not allowing this issue to be dominated by national egos. i agree with that but would say to colleagues – and they know this to be true – that this debate is bound to be dominated by the different national perspectives and by whether a country has traditionally been a high contributor or a net recipient of funds from the european union. that is a fact. if one ignores that or abuses those of us – including germany, the netherlands, sweden and a number of other member states whose citizens have real concerns about the amount they have paid in the past and the amount they will pay in the future – by saying that this is all about national egotism, we will not get anywhere. i would remind those colleagues from belgium that their country has been a net recipient, despite the fact that it is a wealthy country, and will continue to be so under any of the exemplifications of the budget between 2006, 2007 and 2013. luxembourg – a country that i like very much – is the richest country in europe but will continue to be a net beneficiary. if we were in that happy position we would be saying to the presidency: ‘come on, do a deal’. if the only issue was whether we ended up with eur 3 billion or eur 6 billion in our pockets, that would be easy. the problem, however, for a number of member states – and not just the united kingdom – is that we have historically been very high contributors. i am just saying this so that colleagues can understand the problem we have within the united kingdom. we might as well lay our cards on the table and be frank. the problem is that over the latest financial perspective the uk has paid eur 39 billion, france has paid eur 28 billion, italy has paid eur 24 billion and germany has paid eur 77 billion, which is another extreme. however, the uk has still paid eur 39 billion, which in population terms is much more than those other two countries. spain has benefited by eur 48 billion and portugal by eur 14 billion, so that puts a different perspective on things. i agree that we have all got to pay our way for enlargement. with any, even the most minimal, change to the financial perspective, or no change at all, the united kingdom would be paying another eur 11 billion – getting on for another third more – towards the next financial perspective to pay for enlargement. the issue is not whether the united kingdom or the better off countries pay a bit more for enlargement – though some better off countries would not pay anything extra – but of how much more one pays in a context in which the united kingdom has, over the last 20 years, paid 2.5 times the equivalent of say france or italy, notwithstanding the fact that our gnis have been equivalent over that period. that is the problem. we are working through it. we see our responsibility as being to the union as well as to our publics. no one can accuse my prime minister of not being courageous or of not being very committed to this union, as we have done a great deal. i just wanted to make that clear so that everyone understands the difficulties we all face. the last thing point i wish to make, on a more hopeful tack, is that president barroso spoke very eloquently about the fact that the european union has to do less in some areas and more in others, and i think that is exactly the right way of looking at things. this is not about a minimalist europe, because europe’s achievements have been astonishing over the last 60 years when one recalls the condition of conflict which had characterised europe for three centuries prior to that. when i look around other areas of conflict today, particularly the middle east, with horror, it reminds me of the britain that i grew up in as a young child just after the war and of the even worse conditions that existed on the continent. that is the european union’s achievement. what we have to do for the future, however, is to build on that achievement and recognise that the challenges are a little different. one of the areas in which we can do the greatest good, and are doing so with the great leadership of javier solana and the commission, is in the field of foreign, defence and security policy. take what was agreed yesterday by condoleezza rice and javier solana. take the fact that the european union is now the third party in that agreement to allow palestinians to travel in and out of gaza and the west bank. we were not always regarded by the government of israel as the third party in such matters. take what we are doing together with respect to iran, take the joint declaration we have just agreed with afghanistan and take the tangible increase in aid of africa. it is here that we can see real progress being made by europe collectively. it is in this area, as well as in many others, that we need to do more, and at the same time rebalance what the union does compared to what national, regional and local government does in respect of domestic policy. this presidency has been a great privilege for us, mr president. i have certainly enjoyed it, and i look forward to another six weeks of interesting times here in strasbourg, brussels and in other cities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the british presidency and tony blair are in fact victims of the great expectations which the british prime minister raised in his speech to this parliament on 2 july. it is obvious that when you have high expectations, you will be disappointed. time is running out, results are scarce and i think the british presidency should not be surprised by the criticism that parliament is voicing in this debate. in fact, it was more than an informal council, it was an inconsistent council, which should have discussed the european social model the previous month and instead found itself faced with a 360-degree discussion of the world without taking any decision. i will not burn in the streets for this constitution, but i think that a limit on the six-monthly presidencies is emerging with great force. each presidency inherits the agenda of the previous presidency and adds a new layer of commitments, raising the index of decisions to be taken and lowering the chapter of decisions taken. we keep adding ingredients to the cake, but the cake never comes out of the oven. i would like to quote an example i gave to president barroso last night. it is true that europe has experienced other deep crises in the past. i am not nostalgic for the europe of the six, nor do i believe there is a golden age to look back to. however, when you are divorced from your fiancée at 18, life seems very hard but you are aware that things will go on anyway, whereas when you end a marriage at 45, with five children and a mortgage to pay, everything is more complicated. it seems to me that europe, in this post-enlargement and pre-constitution phase, is in a situation much more like the second case than the first. i am not afraid of the institutional crisis, the financial perspective or the lisbon strategy per se, but i am afraid that all these elements taken together are doing serious damage to the european union. the british presidency still has six weeks to complete its work and i hope it will be able to send a positive message to the europe of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, i am one of those who have appreciated and appreciate the effort made by this presidency to try to revive europe, with its hopes and its challenges, at a dramatic moment. this was done by means of concrete actions and commitments. i am referring to the positive solution to the turkish problem, which would not have been possible without the strong commitment of the british presidency, and to the ability to indicate a path, a perspective and clear objectives which were then put into practice, at least in vocations, at hampton court, namely university, energy, security and defence policy. but i must say that, looking at these great ambitions and the few concrete results, i am increasingly convinced - and i invite you all to reflect on this point - that there is a huge contradiction between the vocations of this europe and the illusion that these results can be achieved with a europe that has fewer resources than necessary and, above all, is not prepared to change its rules. i mean, if we want to achieve even half of those goals and if we want to be loyal to each other, we have to go deep into the knots of the crisis. these nodes imply more resources, which must be used better, less intergovernmental europe and more europe of integration, more political europe, that is, new rules for the commission, precisely to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. the definition of a new institutional architecture and the increasingly shared policies are now a necessary path for the future. the maintenance of the status quo, which is perhaps the greatest achievement of the british six months, will inevitably lead to a renationalisation of policies, aggravating the crisis, increasing the veto power of governments and the inability of summits to take decisions. i hope that this semester will convince even the most sceptical of us that it is not enough to have good ideas and good will, but that we must recognize that either we have the courage to change, to take a leap forward on the path of integration, or we die.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too have agreed on the need to support this debate, because we want the european parliament to give a firm and unanimous response to the serious statements made by iranian president ahmadinejad about the existence of the state of israel. the socialist group believes that the gravity of what has happened should not be underestimated, since these words were spoken at a very delicate moment in the middle east. in fact, in the days that followed we were fortunate to hear statements by leader khatami, which went in a completely different direction. he spoke out against all kinds of crusades, war and violence, calling them immoral. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the middle east, and we are all aware of the fact that the negotiations are being conducted in the context of the peace process. peace, democracy, freedom and social justice are the values we want to see established in the middle east and we want europe to play an increasing role in this perspective. we therefore welcome the responsibility which the european union has assumed in controlling the rafah border, which we hope will be one of the borders of the palestinian state in the near future. iran is a great country and we don't want it to be isolated from the international community. on the contrary, we believe that its choices, starting with a clear and unquestionable renunciation of nuclear weapons, can contribute to the peaceful stabilization of the whole area. israel and palestine are bound by the same destiny and to erase israel is to erase palestine. i say this because it is time to expose those who, in the name of defending the rights of the palestinians, are helping to fuel their drama. unlike president ahmadinejad, we will work to add a new state to the geographical map of the middle east. we must also remind israel that europe cannot forget the holocaust, because that would be tantamount to destroying the very reasons for its existence as a political project.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of hatred and violence by the iranian president, aimed at wiping the state of israel off the map, are a danger to the whole of the civilized world. iran is a country of 68 million inhabitants, covering 1.7 million square kilometres and a major oil producer, which its present president is trying to transform into a state which is the expression of the deepest islamic fundamentalism, by supporting or not condemning terrorist acts and by striving to produce nuclear energy without the endorsement of the international community. if the iranian president does not clearly change his position, he will be a threat not only to israel and the region, but also to all of us, to peace and democracy. such a threat must be met with the strongest possible response. the unilateral nuclear rearmament of iran must be prevented in line with our resolution of 13 october 2005 and the conclusions of the general affairs council of 7 november. we must also find a diplomatic solution that dispels legitimate concerns about iran's nuclear programme. if this threatening trend in iranian policy is not stopped, we must speak out in strong terms about the diplomatic and economic consequences, because statements inciting violence against a democratic and sovereign state are a danger to the entire democratic community. as institutions, we should continue to encourage relations with the population. we express our utmost solidarity with the state of israel, which has received statements of support from that part of the islamic world which rejects terrorism and which has had the spontaneous support of the citizens of many of our countries. the pursuit of lasting peace requires firm condemnation and the necessary and consequential action against all those who are instigators of hatred and violence. we call on our institutions to be even more attentive to opposition movements in iran which denounce the systems of a violent and freedom-threatening regime which is also against its own people.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the code. this is a fundamental measure which should be the main instrument for introducing amendments to the code in the future and which has already made it possible to improve it, making it a dynamic instrument able to adapt from time to time to the problems and changes related to arms exports to the european union. it is enough to think of the accession to the european union of ten new countries which, thanks to this revision mechanism, have been able to make a valuable contribution. the most important development introduced by the sixth report concerns the possibility of converting the code into a common position, thus making it legally binding. the council must act without delay in this direction, because an arms export control policy based on a legally binding common code can play a fundamental role in the fight against terrorism and in conflict prevention. the second positive new element is the tool box, which is intended for countries for which the embargo has just been lifted. in this connection, i think it is right that the report should reaffirm the courageous position of the european parliament, which is opposed to the lifting of the embargo against china until there is a substantial improvement in the respect for human rights and civil, religious and political freedoms in that country. there are of course some aspects of the report where we would have liked more concrete progress, for example on the exchange of information and the system of notification of refusal. however, the positive results achieved so far give us hope for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report highlights the union's commitment to promoting the universalisation of multilateral agreements on non-proliferation and the development of new generation weapons. the report calls for the development of principles for sanctions to be applied to countries which do not comply with un security council resolution 1540. however, while it is true that the member states of the european union are parties to multilateral non-proliferation agreements, it is also true that two member states are nuclear states, that turkey, a candidate country for accession, is a nuclear state and, even more seriously, that us tactical weapons are deployed in the territories of many member states, including germany, italy, greece and the netherlands. while little has been said on the 100 points of the resolution in question concerning israel, india and pakistan, which are not parties to the non-proliferation treaty, the resolution on iran's civilian nuclear programme ignores the legitimate economic and regional security interests of this great country and calls on the government to provide verifiable guarantees as to the peaceful nature of each of its nuclear programmes. it is a ridiculous resolution, which would even require the european union and nato to persuade the us administration to abandon its programmes and which expresses satisfaction with the enormous amount of european taxpayers' money, amounting to hundreds of millions of euros, which is intended to be spent on the strategy of reducing weapons of mass destruction. the report we are proposing is a blatant mockery of common sense and is therefore absolutely untenable.
, in writing. the european union's approach to weapons of mass destruction has been defined, and now we must convince other peoples of its validity. the eu must prevent the failure of future npt conferences, and must necessarily strive for the accession of all countries to the treaty, its observance, the re-engineering of verification mechanisms, with the full support of the un authority and with the help of sanctions where necessary. we call for a strategy involving all eu countries, more incisive, that severely sanctions activities that contribute to proliferation and reinforces the prohibition of chemical and biological weapons. a strategy that involves the european parliament more, with the aim of imposing a code governing arms exports and clearer rules on military procurement. we also stress the need for a moratorium on depleted uranium munitions. the european parliament's firm commitment to combating the use of weapons of mass destruction is based on the awareness that such use causes not only the loss of human lives but, above all, the disappearance of those ethical values, the heritage of the peoples of the eu, which are the basis of our history and which motivate the existence and future of our community.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i actually asked to speak because i was afraid that the vote on the amendments would have a different outcome. i think that the vote was very positive and that it strengthened the balance of the regulation. i also believe that for the parties, such as the one on authorization, on which we voted a very strong position, there are all the prerequisites for reaching a convergence as soon as possible with the council, which the other day, in the debate on all the key chapters, showed that there is a great possibility of a meeting between what we are about to vote - and i hope with a positive final outcome - and what has matured in its work.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his kind words. it seemed almost impossible to speak in this beautiful chamber during the debate on a measure of such importance as reach. the uen group has chosen to vote in favour because we are satisfied with the registration and we fully agree with the content of the regulation with regard to the osor principle. we have some concerns about the authorization. however, in general terms we agree with this project and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sacconi, for his commitment and for the work he has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is extremely important and useful, particularly because it aims to make the code of conduct binding and calls for it to be legally recognized by all nations. i also think it is important to call for the logic of marking and tracing of weapons to be followed. the problem is that if this code of conduct, which we discuss every year, is not adopted by the commission and the council, it risks remaining a mere declaration of good faith. it is extremely important that we should also include in this regulation those instruments which can be used for both peaceful and military purposes. finally, i consider it equally important that the decision to reiterate the arms embargo on china should be taken.
, in writing (ni). on behalf of the new psi, i thank mr martens for his work and the british presidency for its willingness to increase the eu's commitment to africa. i fully support the call for this strategy to be given the appropriate tools and resources, and precise timetables, so that we can assess its progress. i also agree with the priority of coordinating the policies of the various member states to avoid duplication of effort. it is important, however, that the eu finally takes on its rightful role as a world leader in the fight against poverty. africa, with the highest concentration of people below the poverty line, the worst communicable diseases, infant and maternal mortality, and a lack of education and health facilities, is the main challenge in achieving the millennium development goals. the european union must therefore be accompanied by a firm policy of international diplomacy which consistently promotes appropriate economic and social policies in the international organizations, first and foremost the un, the imf and the wto. and to promote dialogue with all beneficiary countries so that they finally take an active role in defining their strategies and managing the programmes, with the full participation of all civil society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission must show courage in hong kong, starting with the chinese emergency. china has invaded the european market with an avalanche of seemingly cheap products, but in reality they cost a lot: in china, products - from clothing to agro-food to high-tech equipment - are produced without respect for human rights, with ridiculous wages, without regard for the environment, without guarantees for consumer safety, often with the use of child labor. all too often, these goods are counterfeited, thus encouraging a huge market which finances criminal organisations, a market which, moreover, directly harms european companies and devalues their professional heritage. our companies do not want privileges, nor do they enjoy the benefits of positions: they want to be able to compete on the international arms market on equal terms, with mutual respect for the rules! unfair chinese competition is killing our businesses, putting millions of jobs at risk. we therefore call on the european commission to act with courage and to take action to defend production and employment in europe. in view of the hong kong round of the wto, we call on the commission to call for the introduction of social and environmental clauses to stop unfair competition from china; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, in particular clauses against social and environmental dumping, protecting workers and the environment, and making the movement of goods de facto subject to the protection of rights. we cannot make deals with those who exploit, damage the environment and fail to guarantee respect for human rights. europe must commit itself to promoting a social dimension to globalisation, while also fighting to protect european businesses.
we are aware of the importance of the doha round, both for the developing countries and for the european union. the commissioner was very categorical about agriculture, however, saying that there was no need for further offers because the change in agriculture would also bring other opportunities in other sectors. but when the european community approved the fischler reform of the common agricultural policy, it was explained to our farmers that this was a necessary reform to present themselves to the doha round negotiations with a credible and defendable position on the international scene. the efforts imposed on our farmers by that reform and the effects it has had have not yet been stabilized. however, instead of pointing out to our partners the efforts already made, the commission is presenting a new negotiating proposal which calls the cap into question and imposes further destabilising sacrifices on our farmers, that is, an additional variable which is unsustainable for them. in order to ensure greater market access, the commission is proposing tariff reductions which are putting our producers in unsustainable competition with imported products. the commission has clearly not fully assessed the impact of such liberalization on community agriculture: for some products the reform has resulted in a significant reduction in the price level and a substantial fall in exports. in short, the cap is being sacrificed in order to obtain more concessions in the field of services and research. as regards geographical indications, the commission has made the whole of the negotiations conditional on their recognition by the international partners. the commissioner himself reiterated yesterday before the ep's agriculture committee that he would not consider the negotiations concluded without these demands being met. it does not seem that our interlocutors are prepared to meet such a request. we therefore ask the commissioner to take a firm stand in favour of the creation of an international register of all geographical indications, which will help to safeguard our traditions of quality. finally, i think that an equally strong signal is needed with regard to export refunds. we cannot commit ourselves to eliminating our export subsidies until a similar commitment is made by those countries which, through different mechanisms, still support their exports.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in cambodia, laos and vietnam is particularly worrying. the aim of today's debate is to support strong and decisive action by all of us - parliament, commission and council - to defend fundamental human rights: the right to life and the promotion of freedom. after the end of the war - thirty years ago the war in vietnam came to an end - the fall of bloody communist regimes - such as that of pol pot - or violent coups by anti-government states - such as that in laos - the international community has actively cooperated for development and democratic support in the former indochina in the international community. but what can be said today, 30 years after the end of such terrible and tragic events for a part of humanity? much has been done, but not enough. the basic guarantees of human rights are still not respected: the right to life, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and opinion, not to mention the right to religious worship, the restrictions on christians, catholics and the united buddhist church in vietnam. and what about the sordid, shameful sex tourism that knows no bounds, where young women - almost girls - are thrown on the sidewalk like meat for the slaughter? it's a disgrace that must be prevented and stopped. it should be acknowledged that some progress has been made with regard to religious expression rights: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but more must be done to win the battle for democracy and human rights. in three years' time we shall be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. i would hope that by then - by making greater use of the instruments at our disposal, starting with financial instruments - we could have a genuine policy for the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms. mr president, in order to achieve this, i believe it is essential that the european parliament be involved in the work of the council working groups and the eu-laos and eu-vietnam committees on administrative reform, governance and human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian and elected representative of piedmont, i have recently been involved in a number of meetings and events relating to the forthcoming winter olympics in turin. there's a demonstration on the third floor of our building to celebrate the olympic truce. there has been a lot of talk about the economic and tourist benefits which the olympic games will bring to the city of turin, but not as much - or too little - about the social dimension, the role that sport can play in promoting development, health, education and peace, as has been done in this house. through sport, we can educate, we can make low-cost, high-impact projects, which should be supported and promoted with energy. we must, however, be vigilant so that sport is not used as a propaganda tool - i am referring, for example, to cuba and totalitarian regimes in general - or as a tool for the spread of hatred and racism, referring to the unfortunate incidents that have recently occurred in some italian stadiums or when the fundamental values of sport and competition are betrayed by those athletes who use doping substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the olympic truce or 'ekecheiria', or 'raise your hands' - the greek language is always relevant and extraordinary in giving political action meaning - is a concept as old as the olympics themselves, when - in order to allow the games to take place - the inviolability of olympia and the safety of those who went there to watch or participate in the games were guaranteed. i believe that the olympic truce is more than a simple call for a pause in the fighting. it's certainly more than that. it is a great opportunity to use sport as a message for building a real and lasting peace on a planetary scale and for social promotion. also on the occasion of the 20th olympic and paralympic winter games, which will take place in turin from 10 to 26 february 2006, the organising committee of the games and the city of turin in collaboration with the province of turin, the piedmont region and coni have undertaken to develop a rich programme of initiatives to support and promote the olympic truce. it is a series of events at national and international level on the themes of peace, justice and solidarity. we believe that the european parliament too must give its full support to this initiative in order to reaffirm a spirit of peace and mutual respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the olympic games, the city of turin has promoted an initiative of international cooperation between cities with the aim of supporting and promoting the olympic truce. in ancient greece, the olympic truce was a period of cessation of hostilities: the whole known world stopped. on the occasion of the upcoming olympic games, turin has launched a message of hope for peace and is running as a sacred and safe city, supporting the olympic truce even in modern times. turin is trying to make cities protagonists in the peace process between nations. "unite the cities to unite the nations", said a great italian, giorgio la pira. the first initiative of the modern era was in 1992, when, following the appeal of the international olympic committee, athletes from the former yugoslavia were allowed to participate in the barcelona games. on 3 november 2005, the united nations general assembly adopted the torino 2006 olympic truce resolution, which was submitted to italy and signed by 190 nations. today the olympic games are showing their values. the truce is a call for peace that does not take into account any political colour and as such cannot be exploited by anyone under any circumstances... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wish to speak on this subject, since - as the delegation from parliament's committee on petitions has just reported from val di susa, piedmont, italy - the valley has been militarized in order to force the inhabitants of that community, who are all against it, to build a 54 km railway tunnel. the inhabitants are rightly concerned about the environment and their health, given the presence of asbestos. they have proposed serious, valid and documented alternatives. but instead of listening to them, we are using force, as the ill-treatment of my colleague, mr agnoletto, has shown. the delegation called this an insult to the people and said that an independent judge was needed to check any infringements of european standards, which would be all the more unacceptable for a work that would be included in the community standards. i think that the european parliament should adopt the proposals of the delegation from the committee on petitions, because it is right that the susa valley should also enjoy an olympic truce.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the unilateral attribution of blame or responsibility is as wrong as blaming wild birds for the spread of this disease. science has shown and proved otherwise. it's been more of a media event than a real medical event compared to many other developments and worse diseases. the commission's response to the crisis has been to provide a comprehensive and coherent response to the crisis. we need to have more control over development. i hope that all those concerned will be involved in this development. it is essential that those living and operating on the site are involved in monitoring, for example those who hunt, have the knowledge and are thus the first to come into contact with wild birds. in this sense i hope that the parish report the honourable member has done a good job will be adopted tomorrow, and i would like to congratulate the commission once again on its wise attitude.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members for their kind words and support. in light of the challenges we are facing, the support of parliament has been a great encouragement and a great help. i would like to touch on a few issues. firstly, with regard to the issue of research, we are already carrying out and financing research. there is, however, still a lot to be done and that is why my colleague, mr potočnik, will soon ask for proposals for further research into the vaccine. we are currently doing this and i agree with members that we have to develop a better vaccine, which is easier to use, more effective and does not hide the disease and infection. at the same time, there is still much to be learned about the involvement and effect of migratory and other wild birds in spreading the disease. we have to work on the assumption – as this is what the evidence shows, contrary to what we thought in the past – that the disease is spread by migratory birds. however, it also exists in other species such as sparrows and pigeons in south-east asia. there is still therefore a lot to be learned. with regard to surveillance, we are using hunters and have asked other groups to also support us in this effort. in addition, we need to know a lot about the virus itself. we therefore not only finance the surveillance programmes and the study of wild and migratory birds, but we will also support the actual research into the virus itself and how it behaves – it is a tricky virus and it changes continuously. thankfully it has not mutated into a human strain yet, but it behaves in a different way in different birds in different regions. acquiring as much information as soon as possible is therefore very important. on the issue of vaccination, it is correct that the new legislation changes the approach. we do not discourage vaccination. it can be used if certain precautions are taken. these precautions are necessary as mistakes could lead to serious consequences. without such precautious, the worst case would be that the vaccine would hide the infection and allow the disease to spread despite the birds having been vaccinated. we have had support in the past with italy. we supported a project and gained important experience, especially with a system that allows vaccinated birds to be distinguished from infected birds. there is flexibility in this legislation. it takes into account the current limits of the vaccination. the file has to be properly applied and monitored. this is very important. nevertheless, we will support research in this field so as to have a more effective and easy-to-use vaccine. on the issue of the plans, i will not say much about the human health aspects, because we discussed this at length a few weeks ago. i can, however, confirm that all member states have national plans. only two days ago we adopted both a community plan for dealing with a pandemic of influenza and a more generic plan. at the same time, this exercise has proved that there is inter-operability between the plans; we do not have 25 or 27 separate actions. we have synergies and coordination. there is clearly always room for improvement. this is why we had the exercise: to identify the weaknesses. the systems worked and that is good. the exchange of information and the communication also worked. in addition, the early warning response system of the community worked very well. on the topic of vaccines and anti-virals, it is indeed true that there are concerns. not all member states have reached the same level of preparedness. the industry is not, at this point, in a position to supply the quantities required by the member states and by the rest of the world. that is why i have been having meetings with the industry and i will report to the council on 9 december and see how we can improve and enhance the production capacity. i now turn to the issue of the low pathogenic form. as mentioned earlier, i know there are some views – i see mr parish is smiling – that would also support a stamping-out policy for the low pathogenic form. the commission takes a different approach. the legislation does not encourage it, this is true, but does not prohibit it either. it therefore gives the member stats the option to apply it if they feel that this is the appropriate policy for that specific area, for their own region. we have taken into account the advice of efsa and ethical concerns as regards mass culls. this is the reason why we reached such a conclusion. finally, i would like to say that we take into account the issues of animal welfare and the breeding aspects of animals and birds. you will see this in our animal welfare strategy which will be adopted soon – by the end of the year, hopefully, or early next year. i have to point out, however, that the disease has spread to farms in south-east asia where animals are bred in a natural way. this has not protected them from the virus. i would like to conclude by stressing the unpredictable nature of the virus, which behaves in strange ways. this is why the greatest emphasis is to be placed on research, so as to enable us to gather as much information as possible. i should like to thank members for this interesting debate.
the creation of a common strategy to deal with a crisis is of paramount importance for european consumers and industries. the more the eu can take charge of the urgency, the more citizens will feel that our interference in their daily lives is not merely bureaucratic, but tangible and efficient. it is therefore necessary to achieve the maximum possible co-financing, i.e. 50% for the slaughter of animals affected by the virus and at least 50% for other expenditure in the veterinary field. italy has a very high-quality production sector employing 80,000 people. it is one of the countries that, in addition to participating in the development of the new h7n1 vaccine, is better equipped to deal with the risk of an epidemic: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the vaccination is covered where necessary, to strengthen veterinary services and to introduce a labelling system which indicates the origin of the product. these measures, which guarantee both consumers and the recovery of consumption, must be properly recognized at european level. the commission cannot take any action against a country that protects its citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal to allow manufacturers of generic medicines to manufacture and market patented medicines for export to countries which are not entirely self-sufficient must be welcomed because it is a positive development. the regulation allows licences to be issued, but stipulates that the conditions for issuing licences, which are mandatory for exports, are identical in all the member states of the european union. i believe it is a sacred principle to avoid distortions of competition for operators in the single market by applying uniform rules to prevent the reimportation into the territory of the european union of pharmaceutical products manufactured under compulsory licences and at a lower price. in doing so, the european union is setting itself up as one of the international actors most committed to ensuring access to medicines at reduced prices for citizens in the most disadvantaged countries. although i am a firm believer in the proposal, i would point out that the measures contained in the act in question appear to be an attempt to reduce the protection afforded to intellectual property rights. it would therefore be reasonable to allow patent holders to intervene in the procedure for the compulsory licensing of the manufacture and sale of medicinal products for export to the countries of the world trade organisation. that power of intervention is exercised by the right to submit observations to the competent national authority in order to enable, by the completion of an adversarial procedure, the adoption of a decision on the substance of the matter which minimises the sacrifice of the intellectual property right. in particular, in the case of a marketing authorisation, it would allow the holder to penetrate the european union market in circumstances which would not otherwise be allowed to the holder.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my view - and i believe that the vast majority of members of this parliament share this view - the judgment of the court of justice in case c-0176 is a success for the european parliament, not only because the court of justice has taken up the guidelines set out by parliament in september 2003 on the basis of a report by the legal affairs committee, which i have the honour to chair, but also because it has obliged the council to respect articles 24, 29 and 47, which clearly state that the ec treaty takes precedence over the eu treaty. the council will therefore no longer be able to use title vi to decide unilaterally on criminal sanctions, without the involvement of the european parliament as co-legislator. i think this is a great step forward, a great achievement, which is to the credit of the european union as a whole. it is clear that without the intervention of parliament a fundamental principle of democracy, namely, nulla poena sine lege, would have been circumvented rather than reaffirmed. the court of justice, while acknowledging that the community obviously cannot lay down criminal sanctions or harmonise criminal law, has provided that 'where criminal sanctions are indispensable to the attainment of essential objectives laid down by the treaty and for the purposes of the treaty, it may require the member states to lay down and apply such sanctions'. this means that, while the community has the power to regulate conduct in order to achieve a particular objective, it also has the power to decide whether such conduct can be punished at national level by administrative or criminal sanctions. the european institutions are therefore called upon to implement the judgment of the court of justice and - i am addressing myself in particular to the commissioner - the european commission has given some indications as to how it will act. i believe that the mere transfer of provisions contained in a framework decision to a community directive is unacceptable if such a transfer is not carried out in full respect of the prerogatives of the european parliament. parliament must be able to intervene in this matter if the legal basis provides for its being a co-legislator. as regards the pending legislative proposals, i would welcome commissioner frattini if the commission were to withdraw them or replace them with new proposals in accordance with the case law of the court of justice. the legal affairs committee will ensure that community law and parliament's prerogatives are respected. the commission has already asked for authorization in good time and the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights will make a commitment to this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i join those who believe that it is useful to review, but not to abolish, regulation no 4056 of 1986, and i hope that this review will be aimed at ensuring the efficiency of services, adequate timetables, precise deadlines and fees in line with the costs of operation. as has already been stated, the exemption for conferences has historically played a balancing role in the maritime sector, but it is also true that the decline of conferences is a fact made evident by the figures concerning individual traffic - the 1994 law - and by the emergence of large independent and efficient operators. in general, today's rates fall when demand falls and rise when supply is limited, and it is well known that conference agreements do not seem to have been able to impose coordinated increases on traffic affected by a fall in demand. the proposal to exclude the advance fixing of rental rates, which is the main effect of the conferences' actions, is sensible and therefore to be welcomed. but we must be vigilant and see whether this will not ultimately have an effect on the reduction of calls, on the identification of calls based solely on the interests of shipowners, and on the artificial reduction of fares. it 's already happening with the established trades: we know that chinese exporters with negative quotations are coming to europe where the differential gap is recovered at the landing by paying outstanding sales duties, which are then reimbursed to the chinese exporter himself. we must therefore pay the utmost attention to and monitor the aspects of artificial liberalization practices which could become such if our shared objective is to have a competitive european merchant navy along the lines set out in lisbon.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened with interest to the debate. it is clear that the introduction of competition in the liner shipping sector constitutes a major change. such a change is positive not only for shippers, the consumers of liner shipping services, but also for the liner shipping industry itself. i am committed to finding a balanced solution, one which furthers the interests of both shippers and carriers. i believe that the way forward is to repeal council regulation (eec) no 4056/86, which would lead to lower prices and would not negatively affect carriers. it will be important to continue discussions with the liner industry. this should ensure that the few positive effects of the conference system are retained. this means the exchange of information between carriers, but not such as to allow collusion. on this basis, i believe we can find a fair and reasonable way forward to the benefit of liner carriers and of the eu economy as a whole, and one which all participants in the market can support.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are about to have this evening is part of the forthcoming review of the regulatory framework. the question is therefore whether this framework has worked, whether and how it has been applied, whether it has been able to promote genuine openness, genuine competition and transparency for all operators and, at the same time, to promote the necessary investments. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we must therefore ask ourselves whether we should give operators more leeway - as some are calling for, especially in the new markets - or whether we should keep the services regulated. these are the questions we must try to answer when we are about to review the regulatory framework. i personally, following the committee's consideration, would like to make a few points. first of all, it is a key sector for the development of the european economy, both according to lisbon and because an economy of knowledge, innovation and research has a cornerstone in telecommunications. telecommunications are technologies that drive innovation throughout the productive world and accelerate labour productivity. we must therefore focus on this strategic and investment-intensive sector, which requires infrastructure, research and continuous innovation, in which we must create a market open to new players, with a wide range of consumer choices and in which the principle of access to networks is fundamental. at the same time, however, we must avoid penalizing those who are already strongly present on the market with a substantial size, since we must also compete with the giants of the non-european markets. this is a market characterised by continuous technological evolution - broadband, third generation telephones, the intersection of voice, images and data, the new market for voice over ip services - innovations which need to be supported and encouraged. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal. the commission's report shows that the situation in the various countries is very different, and this is a weak point in a market which is truly integrated at european level. the directives are not always applied properly and, where they are, the bodies, the national regulatory authorities, which are essential for this purpose are not always in place. so we have to understand that there is still a lot to be done in terms of implementing the existing regulatory framework before we change it. this is an important point, mr president, because the very nature of this legislation, which requires flexibility and often ex post action to avoid market dominance, means that the whole system must work. it is difficult to act with ex post legislation unless all the players who have to intervene at institutional level to ensure transparency in the market have first played their part. in our report, after parliament's consideration, we suggest several points: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the role of the commission must be strengthened, the role of the european regulators must be clarified and defined precisely, and the member states must be asked, including parliament, to ensure that genuinely independent and authoritative authorities are set up, capable of working in a completely transparent and energetic manner. this is an essential point. i therefore propose that the commission should intervene: why not think about a european regulatory authority under the new regulatory framework? in addition to this clearer definition of the institutional actors, their powers and tasks, parliament must be involved. we ask the commission to draw up a report at regular and periodic intervals, which will also give the commission the greatest possible clarity in its analysis of all the parameters of the operators' invoicing, as well as guarantees on contract and price developments, in order to inform parliament and to encourage it to play a more decisive role. we want more openness in terms of the presence of operators, we welcome the growth of unbundled access to the network, but we think more needs to be done to allow further openness and entry of new operators; we've seen that investments come from the incumbents, but some of them are also coming from the new entrants. finally, the centrality of the user and the consumer: the roaming issue is essential, we appreciate what the commission is doing and what the european regulators group is doing, but we are asking for something more which is in our document to the commission also on roaming. finally, the reduction of the digital divide also involves action leading to an expansion of users, including the european elderly population and the disabled. i 'd like to end with an appreciation of the volunteer codes for protecting users ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. mr president, let me first express my very warm thanks to the european parliament and to mrs toia in particular for this excellent report. it is very encouraging to see that parliament shares the commission’s policy priorities and concerns as regards implementation of the regulatory framework for electronic communications. this support is important, especially when we have to make difficult or unpleasant decisions with regard to member states. you know that the electronic communications sector is a major driver for a knowledge-based society and economy. our regulatory framework, which has been in place since 2003, establishes conditions for competition, investment, growth and jobs, while guaranteeing basic consumer rights. our objective has been and will continue to be a single market with choice, quality and low prices for all european businesses and consumers. the rapporteur is right, we are taking responsibility for ensuring that member states implement the framework correctly. the fact is that they do not always do this. we maintain a constant dialogue with the european regulators group and the national regulatory authorities, in the context of the monitoring of this market. when instances of non-conformity or incorrect implementation arise, we launch infringement proceedings against the member states concerned. although some objectives have not yet fully been achieved, i can assure you that progress has been made since last year and this will certainly be reflected in the 11th implementation report which we are currently preparing. i would now like to answer the specific requests made by the european parliament. the commission shares your views about the importance of adequate frequency allocation and the need for sufficient flexibility in that respect. we also fully share the parliament’s concerns on data retention, which is why the commission has made a balanced first-pillar codecision proposal. in the same way, broadband access and ways to reduce the digital divide are key priorities and will remain so under the i-2010 action plan. you will know also that roaming charges are an issue to which the commission has paid great attention. in relation to the issue of transparency for consumers, we have set up a website with information on roaming prices in the member states. i can inform you that since this website came online a lot of europeans have used it and prices are falling. i take note of the concerns expressed in the report on the role of the erg. the erg is an advisory body and a good forum for national regulators to exchange views and experiences. i also take note of the request for the commission to carry out regular studies on the transparency of invoicing, contract guarantees and trends in the market and prices. this information is already available and specific studies are unnecessary, but i can assure you that if problems are identified, they are included in the annual implementation reports. i would like to assure parliament that the commission will remain vigilant to ensure that measures relating to national markets do not jeopardise the completion of the single market in electronic communications. we will continue to monitor member states’ activities relating to the regulatory framework, and will submit an annual implementation report, which will be adopted by the commission in february 2006. a few words about the future. the report makes reference to the need to open an institutional debate. that debate has already started, and will go on until the first half of 2006. in the summer, the commission will publish a communication with the conclusions of the debate and will make concrete proposals by the end of 2006. the european parliament will of course be fully involved in this process.
the tenth report on the regulation of electronic communications markets is a very important document for the sector, since it provides an objective and thorough analysis of market trends, both in terms of technological and economic developments in the sector and in terms of measures to combat competition. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs toia, on her excellent work, and i agree with her that the ict sector is of enormous importance to the community economy and to the economy of individual countries, given the considerable contribution it makes to job growth and the development of new technologies for improved and more immediate communications. the european legislation is needed to regulate the relationship between producer and user, to enable and guarantee that digital technologies are available to everyone, that governments invest more in infrastructure, but above all to support free and fair competition, thus ensuring a higher quality of services at increasingly advantageous prices. five are the thematic areas addressed in the report. firstly, the improvement of the international roaming service, with a reduction in tariffs and greater transparency in billing and contracting. secondly: the commission is also proposing to establish a clear framework for the regulation of institutional relations between the european commission and the european regulators group, to give greater responsibility to and to operate national authorities - thus restoring competitiveness - and to encourage investment, especially for new emerging markets. thirdly: the strengthening of power line offerings so that broadband is available to all without territorial limitations and in the shortest possible time. fourthly, the protection of the health of the user, as the rapporteur for the ppe group has said, and he fully supports the rapporteur, mrs toia, and hopes that the european parliament will accept the recommendations contained in her report. finally, i would like to congratulate mr reading on the work he is doing and will be doing on the research report, which the group of the european people's party fully supports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i join my colleagues in this, at the risk of repeating the same arguments and the same positions. in some member states the experiment with reduced vat was conducted, unfortunately for all, at a time when the european economy was not particularly bright, especially in many of the larger member states. in fact, therefore, such experimentation in high-labour-density sectors, insofar as it has supported a not insignificant share of employment, has made an even greater contribution than might have been imagined. the fact that the overall economic situation in europe is changing slightly, albeit still very weakly, is an additional argument in favour of continuing this experiment, and therefore a halt to the experiment would have disastrous effects. secondly, the experiment was a success in that it resulted in almost structural adjustments in some countries over a period of six years. in my country, italy, for example, the experiment with reduced vat was accompanied by a measure to encourage the renovation of buildings - through income tax - which was very successful. this is a real success, both because it has allowed a large part of the country's building stock to be improved rapidly and because it has improved its economic and financial situation. from a financial point of view, the formula of 'income tax-vat reduced' has brought out a huge amount of undeclared work - a taxable matter for the country itself - while, from an economic point of view, it has probably been the most important measure to support the country's overall demand at a time when consumption is languishing in italy, productive investment is reduced and exports are falling. i have two further points to make in favour of the experiment. i hope, therefore, that the council will finally listen to the european parliament, thanks also to the intervention of the commission.
mr president, i very much regret that mrs de palacio, on behalf of the commission, has already ended the application of the olympic truce in the suze valley during the 2006 winter olympics. even the piedmont region has called for this truce to put an end, during the games, to the tensions and disturbances caused by popular opposition to the work on the lyon-turin high-speed line. autonomy for the suze valley, free piedmont!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a cement ship, the margaret, sank on 2 december off the port of la spezia in the gulf of the poets, a beautiful gulf in the mediterranean. the crew was saved, the sea dark system reported a hydrocarbon leak of about 90,000 liters. the cost of securing the equipment will be at least two million euros and the operation will last for several months. the rescues and professionalism were excellent, but it is emphasized that stricter controls are urgently needed because it was a sea-going cart registered in the ukrainian naval register, which was travelling with proper documents. the possibility of a technical investigation after the accident is therefore being considered, in order to determine the causes and responsibilities, but this case should also be considered within the erika ii package of proposals so that we can really say that the controllers are being checked.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy has been at the centre of today's debate. in the wake of the zoro case, saying "dirty nigger" is not considered an offense. the political responsibilities are clear. one footballer even went under the curve chanting fascist symbols. i believe that this is due to a clear responsibility on the part of the political authorities, who are increasingly inclined to criminalize immigration. i would like to give you a very serious example from just two days ago: a moroccan national in italy, suspected of being a dangerous terrorist, after being tried in two different trials and acquitted on both occasions, was expelled from the national territory because he was considered a danger to the security of the country. i think this is a serious matter, since there is no precise information on the whereabouts of this moroccan citizen. it would appear that he is now being held in a moroccan prison where human rights are notoriously not respected. i think that the member states should not be complicit in torture in third countries.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. for europe, this means ensuring security of supply, which makes us too dependent on the outside world. the massive cost increases that will affect the union's economy must be addressed and the environmental impact and greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced in order to meet the kyoto targets. the first line of defence is to focus on energy saving and efficiency. the directive is not as strong as we had hoped; the compromise is far from perfect, there are no mandatory targets but only indicative ones. the 1% per annum target for nine years is far below the savings potential of over 30%. the public sector will not be subject to the more stringent requirements which parliament had called for. the transport sector is only marginally affected by the directive. however, the decision to sign the compromise is based on broader considerations. the directive can create incentives to reduce energy demand immediately. the need for more transparent energy billing systems has been recognised, which can help users to adopt energy-saving behaviours. the indications in the energy efficiency action plan can be an incentive for member states to behave well, especially if the audit system can ensure a qualified verification of results on bottom-up systems. the hope is that the directive will help to create a genuine market for energy services, guaranteeing equal opportunities and quality of services through targeted incentives. a strong political commitment to energy-efficient technologies is essential to boost innovation and european competitiveness, and to become an effective tool for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. it's a way of investing resources in creating new jobs instead of continuing to pay the big oil companies. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mrs rothe, and all the shadow rapporteurs for this success.
member of the commission. mr president, over the past few months energy issues have grabbed the headlines. we have seen the debate on the north european gas pipeline. we have also had headlines on the transit agreement between ukraine and russia concerning gas supplies. there has been an accident at a depot storing oil products near london. these issues usually grab the headlines. energy efficiency is now attracting attention but has not yet made the front page. however, there are indirect indications that the policies the european parliament and the member states are pursuing are producing results. i shall mention just two examples that are encouraging. firstly, china has started to use the target approach: it aims to decrease its energy intensity by 20% by 2010. that is not a huge step, but it is the same target-based approach. it is ambitious, but perhaps it could be even more ambitious. secondly, i am encouraged by the reaction of the opec countries on the oil price forecast for the near future. they forecast strong growth in consumption in the united states and china. they have avoided mentioning europe. so, from their point of view, europe is doing reasonably well. however, we must not be complacent. this directive is really necessary. i would also like to make a few comments on what has been said. i am really grateful to both representatives from the new member states, mrs herczog and mr jordan cizelj, because the biggest difficulty we had in the council was with the new member states. that was paradoxical because the issue had been seen as perhaps an obstacle to growth. in fact, it is the opposite: it gives a chance for growth. i will continue to explain to the new member states that they do not in fact need to consume a lot of energy per capita, and can even now gain the benefits. i agree with mr reul that this is a huge opportunity, and we should use it. i agree with mr guidoni that perhaps we could be more ambitious in the air transport sector, but it is there in the directive, and this will also provide an opportunity to deal with energy efficiency in that sector. concerning the danish example, i believe that, in this directive, all other member states will follow because the suspicion will not be there. i think that industry will discover that its profits will not decrease because of energy efficiency being in place – indeed, perhaps the opposite, as it provides new chances for growth in that sector as well. i believe that metering and billing are important because transparency will make a real difference to the consumer. we need to change not only the approach of the supplier but that of the consumer. that could be done through clear, transparent and correct information. only then will the consumer start to change. the directive also takes into account the initial situation on energy efficiency. we will not punish the countries that started earlier. they could use this for achieving the target. but at the same time, i think that, with the development of new technologies, there will be a huge opportunity for energy savings and energy efficiency even in the most progressive countries. the strange thing is that the country that had been supporting mandatory targets was denmark – from which, in other circumstances, we could have expected bigger opposition – and the countries that have done most in terms of end-use potential said that they had no particular difficulties with mandatory targets. so, by doing, you learn something. i think that the energy services market is extremely important. it gives opportunities not only for energy efficiency, but for employment and growth in the union. with this recommendation amending the text of the common position, we are very close to finalising the legislative process on the energy end-use efficiency and energy services proposal. i am pleased to confirm that the commission can accept the outcome of the compromise between parliament and the council. i would like to invite parliament now to support the compromise package which reflects important changes that the rapporteur, together with the shadow rapporteurs, has achieved during a long and difficult process. although, given the challenge to parliament and also the council, it was not so long, it was a very difficult compromise. but, at the end of the day, there were very fruitful negotiations, and i think the proposal, as it stands now, is perhaps even better than the initial proposal. i would again like to thank the rapporteurs for this achievement. now we need to deliver from the commission side and also from the member states’ side.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has been the subject of a very important and positive debate in committee, and i should like to begin by thanking all the members for this. the reasons for suggesting the introduction of a consolidated common tax base for companies operating in several countries of the union relate to the reduction of barriers to the completion of the internal market and are inspired by the lisbon strategy. this is for two reasons in particular. the first concerns the need to simplify and reduce the administrative and management costs for companies which today face 25 different tax bases and which will then be able to fulfil their tax obligations more easily, while also receiving an incentive to invest and operate in a european dimension and not only in a national one. the second reason is one of transparency, because the unification of tax bases will make opportunistic behaviour more difficult, since a common tax base will allow - while not interfering in any way with the levels of taxation in the different member states - to finally make the different levels of taxation fully legible and comparable. these two reasons, fully acknowledged by the experts and business representatives we heard during the drafting of the report, convinced a very large number of committee members. it is a very difficult operation, both politically and technically. the political difficulties are due to the fact that a number of countries - albeit fewer than a few years ago - are showing difficulties and reluctance to deal with taxation issues, even if in this case it is not about rates. the main technical difficulties are to be found in identifying a homogeneous basis of indicators for a common tax base. the commission has been working on this for some time and has set up technical groups. the commission's report is a welcome expression of our appreciation for the work of the commission, encouraging it, urging it and offering some guidance. the intention and commitment of the members of the committee was to promote a broad and strong statement by parliament, which i hope is possible, although this will of course involve some concessions and some discipline on the part of the political groups. taxation is a very difficult matter. it is no secret that the positions of the various groups and the various member states are very different. that is why we in the committee have drawn up compromise hypotheses which focus on the subject of the question, namely the consolidated common tax base, without going into the wider field of competition or tax convergence, which remains open and has not been dealt with here. this approach has enabled us to give substance to the report and to give some useful and precise indications. the report shall request the drawing up of a regulation, indicating the contents deemed necessary. it also provides for the possibility of using enhanced cooperation if unanimity cannot be reached, and for a gradual approach to the introduction of the common base, optional at the outset, with a mid-term assessment to consider whether a mandatory introduction phase should be followed. the subject we are presenting is therefore well defined, but it is nevertheless an important subject which i hope will be taken up by a large majority of parliament. for this reason, although i also share some of my own views in the amendments which have been tabled, i think it is essential to preserve the profile of the report in this debate and in the votes in the house, a balance achieved in committee which i believe is essential for the success of this initiative.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr minister, we have successfully concluded the budgetary procedure. it is a success for all of us, but, if i may say so, it is first and foremost a success for parliament, which has been able to fight to defend its political priorities. i thank all the political groups, all the members, the president and the secretariat of the committee and all those who contributed with their expertise and generosity to the successful outcome of the procedure. the result speaks for itself: we have asked for a decent level of payments, based on sound spending discipline, but also on the need to have sufficient funds to pursue the union's fundamental policies. we have obtained a budget of eur 112 billion and the joint declaration which will lead to the presentation of an amending budget if, as we believe, there is an acceleration in the expenditure of the new member states, especially on the structural funds. we had asked for priority attention to the budget lines for growth, competitiveness, education, research, small and mediumsized enterprises, youth, environment and culture policies, and we have obtained the renegotiation of the amounts for as many as six programmes co-decided and the allocation of additional resources of eur 100 million. i am particularly pleased that we have achieved the objective of sending a strong political signal to young europeans by strengthening the socrates, youth and leonardo programmes. we asked the council to consider the inadequacy of the level of expenditure set in berlin for external action and we have produced irrefutable evidence on this matter. we have recalled the solemn commitments made by the heads of state and government on issues such as iraq, the tsunami, sugar and afghanistan, to which parliament intends to contribute without sacrificing geographical programmes, humanitarian action, initiatives essential for human rights and democracy, and solidarity for development. we have for the first time achieved the breakthrough of the fateful ceiling of eur 200 million for flexibility in external actions. it 's perfectly clear: the fact that we have 275 million more for external action and a protocol which is more respectful of parliament's role in foreign and security policy is not a trophy to show off but a necessary response, a choice which is due to what we are called upon to do together in the world. we are also satisfied for other general reasons: in recent years, the european union has been able to achieve historic successes, to build and defend peace at home, to break down borders without resorting to force, to promote its values without imposing them, and to promote growth and cohesion in a world that is often turbulent and unstable. today we are facing a profound crisis of the european project, but it is not an irreversible crisis. as saint-simon wrote, at such times we need a force capable of uniting the will, of concentrating the movements, of making shared interests and commitments firm. even in the 1980s, stormy winds were shaking our european project, but despite the warning of storms, there was a strong political leadership that knew how to find a way to drag us out of the storm even stronger than before. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must respond to negative cycles by reversing the course and, after the defeats, we are marking a positive point this week, we are scoring a goal, together, with the annual budget. as minister lewis and the commissioner know, we could have used the annual budget as a front for the financial perspective, but we did not want to do that, because we are responsible and aware that the european union does not need interinstitutional conflicts. the council must know that it cannot propose a small europe, a small europe, nor can it believe that the european parliament will accept petty compromises which will mark the end of european hope. the european parliament has made an important contribution to the 2007-2013 budget with the excellent report by mr böge, which has been unfairly ignored so far. the proposal made by the british presidency, on the other hand - and i am sorry to say this - is unacceptable because it is the exact opposite of the virtuous project that president blair himself had launched before parliament, since it relieves the states of their obligations towards europe, sticks small gifts to this or that, without triggering a process of budgetary reform and greater financial breathing space for the union. it is not just the robin hood of the other way round, as some have suggested, but there is also the danger, which i would like to banish, of becoming the hope-takers of european revival. we, on the other hand, give a positive answer with the annual budget, and i thank minister lewis and the commissioner for that. we remain convinced that, in an age of uncertainty and anxiety, only the investment of european financial awareness will represent the foundation of a fruitful and confident european integration. (applause) i would like to thank
i have just returned from the montreal climate conference, where a very important result was achieved: fully implement the kyoto commitments and prepare to move forward, making the agreement live well beyond 2012, with very important reduction targets. the conference showed a determination to choose a different development path, to focus on alternative energy sources and savings, to choose the path of multipolar cooperation, making this the most important mission for a world grappling with the environmental crisis and the contradictions arising from ever greater inequalities. on this road, europe played an important role at that conference, engaging in dialogue with china's decisive openings and isolating the bush administration's attempt at sabotage. there is no significant trace of this in the work programme which is being presented to us. president barroso is proposing liberalism and dumping, the bolkestein directive and the time directive, wild globalisation which produces increases in transport emissions, which are the ones that are breaking through all the roofs. mr blair, together with mr barroso, in the present situation of crisis and bankruptcy, is proposing a budget reduced to the bone and even nuclear. in the face of the montreal conference and those who, like china, are calling for renewable energy, savings, alternative and clean sources. i insist . these liberal policies have proved to be a failure. we need a new mission for europe and we are called upon to seek it out. we need social cohesion, innovation, environmental quality, reconnecting economies and territories, cooperation, democracy and peace. another europe is possible, but more and more another europe is indispensable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 168 of the rules of procedure, i ask that the wallis report be referred back to the committee responsible immediately, since the procedure followed is incomplete. the committee did not vote on the reasons, but only on the conclusions. i ask my colleagues to support this request, which is an important test of transparency and internal democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of equality and rights, i think that this parliament is showing a certain intolerance towards unwelcome opinions. i heard yesterday a minister of my government and even our highest judicial official accuse, with much applause, the much-vaunted independence of the judiciary, because it was felt that certain expressions - perhaps unpleasant and perhaps uneducated - certainly constitute an offense. but mentioning ethnicity or certain characteristics does not always constitute an offence linked to racism. but in this parliament, it seems to be taboo to talk about certain subjects. i believe that everyone has the same rights, including freedom of opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that a serious injustice has been committed today in not protecting the immunity of mr gollnisch, who spoke - and i will not go into the substance of what he said - as a member of parliament. we should, and i use the conditional intentionally, be protected when we speak as members of parliament, regardless of what we say. this is not the first time that a colleague has been protected for speaking, writing or speaking outside parliament. that is not the case with mr gollnisch. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the basis of the report, but that it should be able to take action on the basis of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a democratic and transparent way, i have skillfully taken a few seconds off the agenda in the only way possible for those who do not belong to the so-called big groups. this does not mean that the parliamentary immunity instrument should not be subject to other rules. what i have said is very serious and any member of parliament, whatever his political views and projects, should take it into account, because one day he could be faced with what is happening to mr bruno gollnisch today, simply because, in the course of a debate and in the full exercise of his duties, he has had the audacity to make statements that others do not share. it's a shame. i'm not going to.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the efforts of parliament and the council to reach agreement at first reading on the rapid adoption of urgent measures to combat terrorism and crime are commendable. i have always maintained that, in the face of a constant threat to world peace and stability, the citizen, in exceptional circumstances, accepts a limitation of his private sphere, if the other side of the coin is greater peace and security. i think it's legitimate to temporarily limit privacy when the community can benefit from it. i think we can be satisfied with the positive compromises that have been reached, despite the usual obstructive attitude of a certain section of the left, which often acts as a guarantor only for convenience and in words, demanding freedom and security for citizens but not following up with concrete action and thus showing greater interest in demagogy and easy propaganda. i think it is well established that in the fight against terrorism, we need specific and restrictive measures, with due regard for proportionality. i believe that the outcome of these negotiations will be a text of undoubted value if it also includes those corrective measures on which, moreover, the eu ministers have already agreed. this would be a text combining strictness with the protection of freedoms, providing for extended periods of data retention, and at the same time containing a series of provisions aimed at regulating typical aspects of protection, providing for sanctions against those who use such data unlawfully. the text would leave member states free to retain data on unanswered calls, but would impose technical limitations to reduce costs. in this connection, i would like to cite italy as an example, one of the few member states which has already adopted specific legislation on data retention. as the italian legislation is proving to be effective, i think it is acceptable to retain data for two years if special circumstances require it. i hope therefore that italy, which is always open to consultation, will be able, in the context of harmonizing the various national provisions, to maintain its legislation, the effectiveness of which has been proven and, moreover, recognized by the commission, which would have already expressed itself in favour of a notification of a derogation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wondered why the british presidency wanted to speed up the process of this directive at all costs. obviously the desire to achieve at least one result in this failed presidency has also dictated the timing of the discussion of this directive. i would like to express my solidarity with mr alvaro because i believe that the compromise amendments proposed by the pse group and the ppe are worse than the text presented by the commission and that they demonstrate two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this directive is disproportionate because it puts security before freedom and democracy. we are facing a slow, gradual and inexorable transition from the rule of law to a police state, and this process of americanization of the european union must be stopped in every way. we asked one thing: "can you show us that data retention can curb terrorism?" this question has not been answered.
the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. but i think that the level of non-implementation by the tunisian government is very high and i think that very specific action is needed. we are in fact faced with the establishment of a quasi-police state, which denies democratic rights and principles. for months now, european funds for the tunisian league for human rights and other associations have been blocked. the human rights defenders, whom i welcome here today because they are with us in this parliament, have told us about the political intimidation and physical threats they face. freedom of the press, as was seen in this last conference, is non-existent and torture is a practice in tunisian prisons. the opposition has no means of expressing itself and any demand for democracy and reform is suppressed. we therefore call on the commission, which has been courageous in informal relations, to do much more and to ensure that the eu-tunisia association council is convened immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two lessons to be learned from the tunis summit. first, the assessment of what happened: the summit is focusing on the knowledge society, and is asking how new technologies and services can be used to develop a high-tech society, which is also aimed at spreading more freedom, giving opportunities to all and guaranteeing access - think of the computer designed for the so-called third world - to information, knowledge and the expansion of freedom. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in a debate on how to expand the space of freedom and respect for rights, we are instead faced with a blatant reduction of freedoms, intolerance and the prevention of discussion. what happened is serious. we call on the commission and the council - which have already done so - to speak out strongly against what has happened, recalling that we have an association relationship with tunisia which also includes the human rights section. finally, i would like to mention the evaluation of the negotiations and their outcome. we believe that, thanks to europe's role, significant progress has been made, but we ask and believe that more must be done in terms of the commitments made, the forum to be held in athens and the awareness that internet governance also poses problems for europe with greater strength and cohesion to resist, let me use this word, or at any rate to respond in positive terms, to those who are today dominant positions and who try to override the idea we have in europe of balanced development, of a pluralist governance and respectful of diversity, which also sees a principle of democracy prevailing in the society of knowledge and technology.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i can sum up this debate fairly briefly and, i hope, at a reasonable pace. the european union wishes to see tunisia maintain and develop its security and its prosperity. we welcome tunisia’s record of promoting economic and social reform, notably on the position of women and the right to education, but we need to continue to work with tunisia on a number of human rights issues and see progress made, particularly in the areas of the right to expression and association. we will continue to work with the tunisian authorities to implement the commitments on democracy, good governance and human rights that it signed up to in its european neighbourhood policy action plan. as i made clear earlier, implementing those commitments will be an important element in developing eu-tunisia relations. i thank the commission for its contribution and, indeed, each of the members of the european parliament who have spoken in this debate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the honourable members for their genuine support for the two items on the agenda, positive support for internet governance and negative support for human rights in tunisia. it must be acknowledged that, as some members have said, economic and social reforms are a success in tunisia. but we also need the tunisians to rise to the challenge of being pioneers in human rights, and we are very far from that. the association committee will meet early next year. it will be followed by a meeting of the association council and we are determined to put human rights issues on the agenda. as for the subcommittee on human rights, tunisia accepted its establishment. there is informal agreement on all points, except for individual cases, and this seems important to me in view of the discussion we had. at the end of the discussions currently taking place in the council, we will make a formal proposal to tunisia. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament who have shown their solidarity with all those who are working in the council, the commission and parliament to make human rights and freedom of expression a reality and not a toy for governments of this world. despite the very deplorable events in tunis in the field of human rights, the summit had a positive outcome. in the future, the two processes, the stakeholder forum and the enhanced cooperation between governments, will enable us to put the issues of freedom in information and communication technologies back on the agenda at all times and to make these freedoms a reality in all countries of the world.
six motions for resolutions were tabled in the minutes by the socialist, green, european united left, european people's party, alliance of liberals and democrats for europe and union for a europe of nations groups. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
tunisia is a very important partner in the dialogue between europe and the arab world. one of the cornerstones of this cooperation is respect for human rights, as enshrined in the eu-tunisia agreement which entered into force in 1998 and the european neighbourhood policy action plan which was launched this year. the tunisian government has always shown a particular openness and willingness to accept commitments to the international community in the field of human rights, democracy and governance, as demonstrated by the recent establishment of the eu-tunisia subcommittee on human rights and the same willingness to accept the hosting of the world summit on the information society. tunisia is an active party to the six main un treaties and, compared to other arab countries, pays particular attention to the secularism of the state and the protection of the social and economic rights of its citizens. of course, efforts are still needed to achieve a state of freedom worthy of a fully democratic country, and incidents such as those which have recently occurred are evidence of this, but we must nevertheless acknowledge the efforts and progress made so far and assure tunisia of our full support.
the agenda includes the commission's communication on the preparation of the white paper on the new audiovisual content directive.
the commission's vice-president madam president, mr minister, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, if we are today on the verge of obtaining agreement with the council on such a sensitive proposal at second reading, it is primarily thanks to the excellent work, and i dare say to the perseverance, of your rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool. let me, madam, congratulate you most warmly. i would like to recall the approach behind the proposal for a directive. the first thing to do is to find answers to the imbalance and the risk of inefficiency that the transport system in europe is facing today. these problems were identified in the white paper on the common transport policy. our response is that if transport users are progressively made to bear the costs of the transport they use, this will help to reduce pollution and congestion and to provide additional funding for investment in transport infrastructure. the text under discussion today amends the current directive dating from 1999, which regulates the application of tolls and user charges on europe's motorways. the current directive is both restrictive and ineffective. binding, since it prohibits the application of tolls on any road infrastructure other than motorways. moreover, it requires infrastructure costs to be the only element in the calculation of the toll amount. it is not effective, however, since it does not provide any methodology for implementing these provisions. the absence of a methodology for calculating infrastructure costs is detrimental to fair competition and favours discriminatory treatment of users. the commission has proposed several amendments to deal with this situation. first, geographical coverage applied to the whole transeuropean road network. secondly, a start - only a start, it is true, but a start nonetheless - of taking external costs into account: the framework for the practice of discounts, the introduction of the principle of allocating toll revenue. the council, mr minister, had more difficulty in reaching a decision, while parliament was able to deliver its opinion on first reading quickly. it took four council meetings before we could reach an agreement, and i, in turn, want to thank you. understandably, transit states are seeking to shift more of the external costs of road transport onto road users. the peripheral states want to ensure that transport plays its role as an integrator of their national economies into the single market, and this divergence of views between transit and peripheral states makes the discussion difficult, but it has also made it possible to find this compromise. since then, the three institutions have worked hard to reach agreement at second reading. significant improvements have been made thanks to the amendments of the european parliament and thanks to you, mrs wortmann-kool. the text now on the table is in line with the concerns which the commission has expressed in the form of statements. the first concerns the step you take on the path towards internalising external costs. the new directive will allow for the partial internalisation of external costs and will allow for the use of overlaying in mountain areas. the revenue from this surplus should be used to finance alternative transport infrastructure. the new directive will also allow for greater variation in tolls, depending on the pollution of vehicles or congestion on the roads. finally, as regards the analysis of the internalisation of external costs, i am pleased to say that the modelling and impact analyses requested by parliament can be developed and published by the commission in the next two years. on this basis, the commission will be able to assess the need for further community action. the second concern is the geographical coverage of this directive. the new directive will allow member states to apply tolls and user charges to all roads. and your amendments are designed to ensure that the application of tolls by member states will be based on clear principles for the calculation of tolls so that they are fair, non-discriminatory and in line with community legislation. as regards the possibility of overcrowding in urban areas, the compromise you propose is reasonable. it is perfectly clear that if member states wish to introduce urban toll systems to reduce pollution and congestion, they are free to do so, and in this respect the example of london seems to me to be quite interesting. finally, on the question of vehicles covered by the future directive, you have defined the deadlines and the exceptions to the inclusion of vehicles over 3.5 tonnes in the scope of the directive. these are sensible proposals which will make it possible to implement the directive better. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the commission can accept without any difficulty parliament's amendments, which reflect the compromise negotiated between our three institutions.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i am very pleased to be here in strasbourg to represent the council at your last part-session of 2005. i am grateful to you for the opportunity to say a few words in your debate on the eurovignette dossier. when mr darling addressed the committee on transport and tourism in june he said that the uk would do all it could to secure an agreement between the council and parliament during our presidency. however, he also warned that this would not be easy because the council had little room for manoeuvre. i know that this is also true for parliament. i am therefore very pleased that parliament and the council have been able to work together to bring this important and highly political dossier to what, i hope, will be a successful conclusion. i particularly congratulate mrs wortmann-kool, your rapporteur, for her hard work and the dedication to find an agreement acceptable to both parliament and the council. the amendments to the existing directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles will make a real difference. in particular, they will allow member states to do the following: levy charges on all roads rather than just motorways; charge goods vehicles down to 3.5 tonnes and not just vehicles of more than 12 tonnes; benefit from much more scope to vary tolls to influence hauliers’ behaviour to reduce congestion and pollution; impose a mark-up in mountainous regions to combat congestion and pollution and raise new funds for major trans-european network projects. the directive will provide for the commission to develop a model for the assessment of external costs in no longer than two years. this model, together with an impact assessment, will, if appropriate, allow the commission to bring forward a proposal for further amendment of the eurovignette directive. i am sure that i do not need to say that these are important achievements on a new directive which will balance the interests of the peripheral states and transit countries, hauliers, environmentalists and, most of all, will benefit the citizens of europe. i should like to congratulate all concerned once again for managing to find a compromise that satisfies both the council and parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am here first of all to declare my loyalty to the compromise reached and to recommend to my colleagues that they support it by their vote. of course, more could have been done, or perhaps should have been done. infrastructure charging will only have its full positive effects if it allows the two principles to be fully combined: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. only the combination of these two principles will make it possible to bring the two functions together: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. the compromise reached today applies only the principle of 'the user pays'. on the polluter pays side, we must be satisfied with the fact that the transition from financing infrastructure through general taxation to financing infrastructure at least partly through tariffs is a precondition for the possibility of internalising external costs, which we are promised after the commission has been given yet another opportunity to study the matter in depth, and which, as we have been told, will be done within the next two years. the polluter pays is also involved in other ways. to an obvious extent where variations in the toll are allowed in relation to the emission categories to which the vehicles belong and the time or day of use of the infrastructure, or, less directly, where the possibility of a mark-up is recognised, an increase in tolls in the case of crossing sensitive areas such as mountainous areas. the latter, en passant, is certainly a rule which can also be of help in overcoming difficult situations such as the one which is at present affecting the section between turin and lyon in the val di susa. paradoxically, however, the greater attention paid to environmental, congestion and safety problems in this measure is due to a waiver of jurisdiction: the commission has not sought to assimilate urban areas and sensitive mountain areas, but has instead recognised the full compatibility of the euro-vignette with livingstone-style urban tolls designed directly to regulate congestion and combat pollution. it's a first step, let's just settle for it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that i cannot support the report by my dear colleague mrs wortmann-kool. despite his very valuable work, his efforts are assumptions decidedly antithetical to the introduction of the euro-vignette. the latter is a worrying new tax which the union wants to impose, this time on commercial road transport, in the absurd belief that it will help to rebalance the competitive relationship with the railway carrier by producing those environmental benefits which we all want. i also take this opportunity to condemn what is happening in italy, in the susa valley, where those who should be vigorously supporting the railway company, as they did when the decision on the corridors was taken, are now trying to block the implementation of the corridors, even by rather questionable methods. in essence, i see in the euro-vignette the first clear direct tax that the european union wants to impose and that could open the way to further odious slanders. i shall therefore vote against this proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. this is a situation which unfortunately occurs with alarming frequency and which requires the adoption of this regulation as a matter of urgency. thanks to the efforts of the rapporteur, mr evans, and the willingness of the council and the commission, we have reached a good compromise which will allow us to approve the rules at first reading and to implement them quickly. this regulation is important for disabled and elderly passengers, as it guarantees a number of fundamental rights: first, it provides for the right to free assistance and prohibits the refusal of boarding to passengers with reduced mobility. this measure will put an end to abuses and discrimination. secondly, the airport operator is the only contact person with general responsibility for the service to which passengers can turn, and it will also allow airlines which have provided quality assistance to date to continue to provide the service, provided they comply with the standards set out in the regulation. finally, rules are established for equal assistance for all, regardless of the size of the airport. assistance will have to be provided by the external arrival points at the airport and not just by the check-in as is the case today. compensation will be provided for the loss or damage of wheelchairs and other equipment, and mandatory training for staff responsible for assistance will be provided. the information will be available in formats that are accessible to all and privacy will be guaranteed. these are fundamental guarantees for the protection of the right to mobility without discrimination and therefore an important step forward in the defence of the rights of the individual whose european parliament is the guarantor.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the new italian socialist party. once again, the european union is in the difficult position of having to reconcile compliance with its international trade obligations with the adoption of policies that favour the development of its poorer partners and the defence of the interests of its citizens, particularly those working in risky sectors. i therefore welcome all the measures taken by the commission to limit the adverse effects of sugar imports from the producing countries and to compensate for any losses which may result. as a member of the committee on development, sensitive to the problems affecting the poorest countries, i support the proposal to provide the reform with additional aid for the 18 acp countries which are parties to the protocol. it is extremely important to support our partners during the transition period to enable them to overcome their economic dependence on a single product, a dependence which makes the economies of entire countries extremely vulnerable not only to market fluctuations but also to the natural disasters which increasingly affect the caribbean and pacific regions. i also agree with the rapporteur's proposal - for which i thank him - to encourage the conversion of the sector to non-food products such as bioethanol. once again, it is important to maintain the coherence of these aims through sufficient financial allocation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr koterec for his work. this is less state aid and more targeted aid in order to respond effectively to the challenges posed by economic globalisation, enlargement and the need to boost competitiveness in the union. however, there is a risk that some territories will be penalised: state aid must be used to promote competitiveness and innovation, research and development, throughout the european union. in this context, it would be particularly desirable to create a transitional mechanism for statistical regions. i therefore ask the commission to take account of the new wording of paragraph 7 of the text of the koterec report, as approved by the regi committee. and i call on the european commission to take note and to act accordingly, and to take greater account of the unemployment rate of a region in determining its status.
state aid is targeted at particularly disadvantaged regions and contributes, even more specifically than other policies, to the achievement of the lisbon, gothenburg and barcelona objectives. they are therefore an important tool for the states to help the most disadvantaged regions, such as those affected by the so-called statistical effect of enlargement, or less-favoured areas, such as islands or mountainous areas. reducing and better targeting of state aid is essential for effective competition, but attention must be paid to the parameters proposed by the new guidelines. they impose too high differentials between the 15 and the new member states, generating a waste of incentives which hinders further results in terms of attracting new businesses, leads to a displacement of non-competitive businesses which can only survive through subsidies, and creates surreptitious competition between the poorest areas of europe. it is therefore necessary to restore more moderate intensities and to reduce the gap between the ceilings of the regions whose development is lagging behind. finally, the 'flexibility' of aid to large enterprises should be emphasised.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot but regret that we only learned of the british proposal on the union's financial framework at the end of the presidency and that this new proposal has not been tabled in this house today either, showing very little regard for a parliament that is praised in words but despised in deeds. we all know that the recovery of europe - which is now in difficulty because of an international situation which has led to the process of globalisation being driven and not suffered, and which is seriously breaking the rules which are the only guarantee for fair trade and fair competition - requires political and economic measures based on appropriate budget lines. for this reason, we would have liked to see a more calm and in-depth discussion within the council and all the european institutions in the past few months. the late proposal, which is less than the luxembourg proposal, further undermines the possibility of reviving the development and social policies needed to tackle the problem of the more than 40 million poor and the more than 20 million unemployed. the british proposal also ignores the geographical diversity of the member states and cuts those structural funds which are vital for southern and eastern europe. this proposal lacks ambition and diminishes europe's role in the world. mr president, you have spoken about terrorism, and it is true that we must strengthen the structures for monitoring and combating terrorism, but we must also improve the quality of life inside and outside the union, and to do this we need political will and funding, not just good intentions. the fact that president barroso himself and the various heads of government, while continuing the negotiations, clearly expressed their disagreement with the british proposal shows that this proposal was probably put forward at the end of the mandate precisely because it undermines the united kingdom's will not to deal realistically with the longstanding problem of the british cheque. a good agreement implies for some countries the ability to renounce certain privileges, even substantial ones, which at a certain moment in the history of the community and under specific circumstances were granted to them and which were justifiable at that time. the union, in the absence of a new treaty, is in dire need of financial balances which do not penalise anyone and which are the prelude to a new economic policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am rather embarrassed that i and my colleagues from other political forces, members of the committee on development, would have liked to see this debate as a more relevant cause for discussion and not just the enunciation of a document which we have drawn up and which is certainly positive. we would also like to see an evaluation, because there are in fact many positive elements in the european consensus on development, although budget cuts seriously affect the implementation of this vision of development policy. the european parliament was involved, first with the commission and then with the council, in the analysis and discussions that took place. we also attended several seminars. in this process parliament has done a great deal and gained a great deal, even though this document does not mention, for example, the need for the democratization of international financial institutions and does not give an assessment of the reasons for the lack of growth in economic equality, while economic disparity is growing and so is our responsibility, for example, for the consequences of the weapons we produce. there is no doubt that the process of redefining the eu's development policies, financial instruments and framework of economic agreements is a challenge for the future. in this sense, the trade issue is still of paramount importance in our document. i would also like to add that in this document, which would require another debate, although there are many positive elements, many are still missing. i would really like the presidencies and the commission to respond appropriately to what we are doing on development policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tony blair has finally chosen to take on the role of sheriff of nottingham: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if there are no last-minute changes, the london proposal risks being the seal of a resounding failure. in fact, we are facing a much deeper crisis: blair has chosen only to escalate the confrontation, to expose europe's weaknesses and to explode the contradictions; the european parliament has only highlighted the problems of a europe torn by selfishness, unwilling to make any effort to support enlargement, incapable of facing the challenges of the third millennium and of establishing itself as a unified political entity on the international scene. italy, as a founding country of the european union, has always done its part, always ready to make sacrifices looking ahead. for 20 years, as a net contributor country, it has paid 25 percent of the british check. but now we are at a crossroads: we cannot pay the costs of enlargement alone, we cannot be the only ones to take a step back this time.
mr president, mr minister, mr president barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming european council is a key stage in the difficult process of building the union. an agreement on the financial perspective would restore certainty to political action and confidence in the integration process, a failure to do so would open a serious political crisis. however, the need for an agreement cannot be confused with a willingness to accept any compromise. in his inaugural speech in this house, blair had envisaged the revival of europe and strong budgetary innovations. today, unfortunately, we have to admit that the proposal is modest and low-key. the commission's proposal to reduce expenditure to eur 871 billion was a difficult compromise to accept, but the further reduction to eur 846 billion, with substantial cuts to cohesion policies for the new member states and rural development, is unacceptable. i would also point out that the contribution requested from italy would be higher than that of france and england. the poor regions of the old states would thus be penalized, while the privileges of the states which would like a budget at a lower level would remain almost untouched. this is a solution which contradicts all the british prime minister's premises and cannot be accepted by this parliament. the only way out of national narrowness and to give our europe new impetus is to find an ambitious agreement that combines competitiveness and cohesion, solidarity and innovation. in closing, may i quote a man from the future: alcide de gasperi, who we mentioned yesterday. to unite europe, we must throw away a world of privilege, a world of cowardice and resentment. we speak, we write, we insist, we do not give a moment's respite to keep europe on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is important because it gives voice to the discontent in europe with a european summit which, given its approach, will only lead to a failure. if this is the case, then for the first years of programming, i.e. from 2007 onwards, it will be impossible to use resources effectively and the damage caused will be severe. but it is better to take that risk than to put the project of a strong and united europe in jeopardy and accept the europe of the 1%. the 1% is a bad deal and the european parliament cannot accept it. and it is even more serious that this bad deal comes about without a substantial reduction in the british reimbursement. to grow, europe must be competitive and to be competitive it must be cohesive. with a budget that cuts spending and sets the ceiling at around 1%, a budget that only guarantees the privileges acquired, that invests neither in growth nor in competitiveness nor in cohesion, mr president, europe is betraying itself. it is a europe we do not want, a europe in which we do not recognize ourselves. we will do everything we can to ensure that parliament fails to reach an agreement on this minimal europe, which is not the europe that parliament wants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the data retention directive, firstly because it is an intrusive and technically inapplicable directive. the only threat to security is the threat to the right of citizens to privacy. the directive does not concern suspects, suspects, victims, but it is an eye and ear on everyone, without distinction. this directive is intended to institutionalize a horrible discrimination against the vast majority of citizens, who are honest and peaceful people, and whom we should be defending against this kind of abuse. we cannot allow a continuous and unjustified, unnecessary and costly system of controlled espionage to exist in europe. we cannot institutionalize the failure to protect the right to privacy. for these reasons i voted no.
i would like to inform mr alexander that we are not talking today about the fight against terrorism, but about hundreds of flights across europe, about the kidnapping and torture of european citizens or refugees by the cia, and about torture in prisons in europe. all this is already apparent from certain elements of the council of europe's investigation and commissioner frattini rightly asks us to look into these matters because we have to get to the evidence. there is a symbolic case that, in itself, contains all these elements and that shows that there is evidence for all these events. this is the case of abu omar, who was abducted in the center of milan by cia agents, transferred to an american italian base and tortured for 12 hours, then transferred to egypt where he was detained and tortured for over a year. he was eventually released and ordered not to talk about the abuse and violence he suffered. he broke the law and after 22 days he disappeared and was never heard from again. all this is evidenced by the fact that the cia agents who carried out the kidnapping left behind traces: phone calls, calls to home, calls to cia headquarters, credit card hotel checks, and even data left on the car's tracking computer. i think all these elements should be examined in depth. there are 22 warrants for 007 from the cia and we're still waiting for the italian government to file extradition requests. it is therefore clear that the italian authorities were aware of the abu omar case, as it is clear that many european governments are aware of these events. in fact, as stated in the agreement concluded in athens in january 2003 between the united states and the european union, the use of transit points for the transport of foreign criminals must be strengthened. i think we need to establish the truth, we need to establish the torture and the detention, we need to establish the flights and the transfers. we need a committee of inquiry to shed light on all these elements. we have an obligation to know, and this is for the good of europe, that it cannot preach human rights and tolerate violations and abuses.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the extremely serious problem raised by certain newspapers, and if what is at present only conjecture or fantasy is confirmed, i too feel it is my duty to ask parliament to contribute to bringing clarity and total transparency to relations between the european union and all non-member countries, even though i believe that it would have been more useful today to spend our time discussing more concrete facts. i do not want to go too far back in time, but i would like someone to stand up and tell me whether, in its time, the united states trampled on the sovereignty of the european member states when it sacrificed thousands and thousands of men to save europe. it's always you leftists who remind me of these things. but then, is the united states a friendly people or not? they can't be when it's convenient for us and they can't be when it's not convenient for us. i am still not able to understand how it is possible that even some people who are in institutional roles and who should be able to maintain an objective position, avoiding destabilising statements, can express themselves with condemnatory statements when there is no evidence of the facts and when, by the way, the states involved themselves deny any illegality. no one wants to deny the crucial role of parliament in ensuring and monitoring respect for human rights and the protection of individual and peoples' freedoms. that said, no one is allowed to make lawsuits, to express judgments on assumptions, suspicions, based on a few newspaper articles. however, i am in favour of setting up a working party to look into the matter, drawing on information from the council of europe, which, according to the european convention on human rights, is the only institution mandated to investigate possible violations of human rights in the member states. i do not want this whole attitude, this aversion to a state which is a friend of europe, to be the result of a perverse sentiment, which is evident from the speeches of some members of parliament and certainly not from my political party. in conclusion, i have the feeling that in this parliament, and especially in some of its committees, there is a veiled but widespread feeling of ideological anti-americanism. some groups seem to be imbued with anti-americanism, with a visceral anti-westernism of ancient memory that evidently reveals old soviet loves that have never been quenched. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days in ceuta and melilla, some members of the libe committee have been able to see for themselves the pleasant methods used by the guardia civil, which the present spanish government has entrusted with the delicate task of turning away illegal immigrants. the members were also able to admire the brilliant invention of the double-network system in which the same illegal immigrants are then treated, as we have heard. it is not that this has caused all the scandal that has been discussed in recent days, because of news that has appeared in the press and which i think should first be verified by a committee. condoleezza rice said european governments must also take responsibility and that america had acted with the more or less declared consent of the governments concerned. european policy should also be free of hypocrisy, from the idea shared by all that the fight against terrorism must be carried out primarily through the instruments of intelligence. first of all, let us ask ourselves why the violation or abuse of the right of asylum by so many people has been tolerated, and why they have abused this right and set up centres in europe, in our cities, for the training and support of terrorists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike mr alexander, who is very young and very zealous, this parliament is not at all pleased with what mrs rice has said, or what she has said, or - and above all - what she has not said. there is no anti-american sentiment in this, we are simply saying that the balance between security and freedom, between human rights and the fight against terrorism, has been broken to the detriment of rights. this parliament is no longer satisfied with the solemn declarations of the governments concerned. history is full of lies, equally solemn, from those same governments and the story of the chemical weapons in iraq reminds us of this. at the moment, the commission says, there is no evidence. we need to agree on what we mean by evidence: the public confession of a prime minister who appears on television to say: "is it true that on the territory of my country i hosted secret prisons run by the american secret services, where torture was practised"? i find it difficult to require this kind of proof. mr president, we believe that the statements by condoleezza rice - who claims to have saved many lives in europe thanks to the preventive work of the cia - are more than an admission of guilt. i would also like to remind you that we claim the sanctity of evidence only for governments, sometimes forgetting about citizens, who are quickly transformed from suspects into terrorists, without the necessary judicial guarantees. we have many good reasons for calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry which is not to support an accusation but to seek the truth. we appreciate the firmness of commissioner frattini and share his support for the work of the council of europe, but we cannot delegate the responsibility for political oversight and the duty of truth to any other institutional body: it's our job and our responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in each of our countries, during the resistance and the cold war, people died under torture in order to protect the most precious thing we have: freedom. and from this sacrifice europe was born, based on a precise idea: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the alternative is not between the life and death of one or more people, but between the civilization of democracy and the barbarism of arbitrariness. our continent has thousands of years of experience in torture and knows that not only is torture misleading in the information it extracts, but above all it irremediably corrupts the very values of civilization it claims to protect. it is an insult to our freedom and intelligence, reinforced by vile blackmail, to claim that torture has thwarted even one attack in europe or elsewhere in the world. today we have a duty to shed light on the allegations of abductions and ill-treatment of suspected terrorists by the cia and of illegal transfers to other states, with the complicity of certain european governments. the action of the milan prosecutor's office in connection with the disappearance of imam abu omar, in connection with which 22 members of the cia are under investigation, and the initiatives of the council of europe are a concrete expression of the rule of law, and those who have nothing to hide have nothing to fear. we must do our part with a committee of inquiry in our parliament - whether temporary or ad hoc - which is committed to finding out the truth. our parliament also calls for another america, one that is not shaped by the fanaticism and economic interests of the george w. bush administration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i have already expressed my support for romania's accession on several occasions. i am sorry to note, however, that no progress has yet been made on the issue of intercountry adoptions, pending at the time of the 2001 moratorium, despite repeated recommendations from this parliament and opening statements by the bucharest government. specifically, on 14 january 2005, the romanian prime minister assured the italian press that all pending cases of intercountry adoptions would be analysed one by one by a committee of international experts. however, to my knowledge, neither the families concerned nor the european union itself have been informed of the procedures and conclusions of this working party. the european commission, which i asked for clarification, was not able to give me any clarification and i was also disappointed by the answers given by commissioner rehn to my questions, in which he defended the current romanian law, which no one is questioning, without making any commitment to resolve the pending cases before the entry into force of this law, as expressly requested by parliament. even from the romanian government - to whom i myself appealed through the ambassador in brussels - i have received no useful information or cooperation and i have wanted to inform my fellow observers of this today by means of a letter, hoping that they will take my appeal seriously. europe, always open to candidate countries and human cases from all over the world, might for once deserve more recognition, seeing a rather simple request for a de facto solution rejected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two months after the last report by the commission and the council on romania's preparations for accession to the european union, we are again reviewing the progress made. we can agree that progress has been made, but it is undeniable that in order to be able to achieve accession in january 2007, other conditions must also be met, as stipulated in the accession treaty and which today, as the moscovici report shows, are even lacking. these include freedom of expression, justice, the fight against corruption, anti-discrimination measures, the protection of children and persons with mental health problems, excessive use of force by police authorities, waste and garbage management, food safety and environmental protection, and the implementation of legislation providing for the return of immovable property; i would like to emphasize what has already been said by a colleague on the problem of international adoptions, which is not solved even in the light of the new law, which has no retroactive legal effect but which has in fact blocked families with an adoption process already in place at the time of the entry into force of the moratorium. mr president, this is a human rights issue. denying a family to a child who has already embraced, known and loved his possible adoptive parents is in no way justifiable. the best interests of the child must always be paramount. we have therefore asked that the committee which has been set up should analyse all the issues and all the situations. however, we have not yet received any answers. we also made an amendment in committee with mr podestà, which was then taken up. today, further amendments have been tabled by the greens and the socialist group, which we as liberals will support because we want the romanian authorities to recognize this situation and find a solution. we therefore believe that the contribution which the observers, who have been present in parliament since 26 september, can make to the government in fulfilling the commitments it has made will prove to be strategic, also through the exchange of experience with colleagues from other countries. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of mr podestà, chairman of the committee on relations with romania, and i shall therefore deal in particular with the situation in that country. we agree with the fundamental points made in the moscovici report. the important progress made by romania is also evident in the progress report presented by commissioner rehn at the last part-session. on 22 and 23 november the eu-romania joint delegation met to discuss the current and real state of progress of the candidate country. the meeting was also attended by vice-president frattini, commissioner rehn, the romanian observers in the european parliament and the representative of the romanian government. it is in the wake of all these reports, which testify to the efforts made by romania, that we reiterate the need to support that country's commitment so that it can join us on 1 january 2007. the european union has made considerable and undeniable progress in the field of freedom, communication, the media, education and human rights for the ethnic minorities present, as well as in the economic field. the situation on the romanian market today is no different from that of spain, portugal, greece and the 10 countries of the fifth enlargement 12 months before their accession. recognising that there are important areas for improvement, such as justice and the fight against high-level corruption and the return of confiscated property to others, the romanian government launched an action plan at the beginning of december setting irrevocable deadlines for meeting the conditions agreed with the european union. the control systems and the reorganization of the institutions responsible for these sectors have been in operation since last april and it is now necessary to give them the time necessary for the activities to take effect. the serious problem of children already in contact with their potential new families, however, remains unresolved, due to the new legislation banning international adoptions. in this connection, we will support amendment no 38 to paragraph 14 of the moscovici report, and hope that the romanian government will take decisive decisions on this matter immediately. in any case, i would like to wish my colleagues from romania and bulgaria well, so that they will be able to sit with us in this parliament on an equal footing from 1 january 2007.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position defined by the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 95/16/ec on machinery [5786/2/2005 - c6-0267/2005 - 2001/0004 (cod)) ] (rapporteur: andreas schwab) (a6-0338/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote on the request for an early vote will take place at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the rapporteur again for her report. i would also like to thank all the speakers for their remarks, for the determination they have shown on the subject of equal opportunities for women in fisheries, and for the proposals that they have made to the commission. on women’s networks, let me state again that the european fisheries fund aims to support networking and the exchange of experience and best practice among organisations promoting equal opportunities. the european fisheries fund will also provide for educational and social needs in the fisheries sector, with particular emphasis on women. women’s networks in fisheries are already benefiting from community funding under programmes such as equal, and certainly this funding will be enhanced with the entry into force of the european fisheries fund. the focus in the fund on young fishers will also help in the field of equal opportunities. an important milestone in the reform of the common fisheries policy was in the field of governance through the creation of the regional advisory councils. i can only express the hope that women’s organisations will take up their place in the regional advisory councils in the same way as they have already done in two out of the three existing regional advisory councils. participation in such governance fora will see benefits for equal opportunities at various levels. on the point raised with regard to shellfish gatherers, i would like to point out that they benefit from assistance from the fifg under the spanish operational programme. i trust that such funding may also be requested by the spanish authorities under the european fisheries fund and i am confident that the commission can continue to support such activities. in fact, such an example can certainly be promoted further. in conjunction with the commissioner responsible for equal opportunities, i will do my utmost constantly to underline to member states the importance of promoting equal opportunities in the fisheries sector. as i stated before, there will be another conference in 2006, following the conference of 2003. the purpose behind that conference is to take stock of the situation concerning equal opportunities in the fisheries sector and then to consider what further initiatives can be taken in conjunction therewith. i look forward to parliament’s constructive contribution to that conference.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the agenda includes the report by the committee on fisheries on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community financial action for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the field of the law of the sea (com (2005) 0117 - c6-0131/2005 - 2005/0045 (cns)) (rapporteur: catherine stihler) (a6-0340/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following:- report by mr paulo casaca, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 2004/465/ec on a community financial contribution to fisheries control programmes implemented by the member states (com ((2005) 0328 - c6-0273/2005 - 2005/0136 (cns)) (a6-0339/2005) and- oral question to the commission on community sanctions in the fisheries sector, by mr philippe morillon, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0111/2005 - b6-0344/2005).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr philippe morillon, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of seychelles on fishing off seychelles for the period 18 january 2005 to 17 january 2011 (com (2005) 0421 - c6-0321/2005 - 2005/0173 (cns)) (a6-0385/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is customary at the beginning of the vote, the rapporteur-general has made some technical corrections. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments which have been tabled. but first i would like to thank you, because this has been a difficult but very satisfying job. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my warm thanks to all my colleagues on the committee on budgets, to mr lewandowski, the chairman, the coordinators and staff of the political groups, the secretariat and all its members, and first of all to the administrator who has given me the constant, loyal and competent help of mr richard wester, a help which has been positively combined with the meticulous expertise of my assistant, mrs annalisa gliubizzi. i also thank all of you, starting with president borrell, who has followed all the steps of the procedure closely, and of course all the colleagues who have contributed ideas and proposals, and who i hope will also contribute to a good result today by voting for me and honouring me with their trust. ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good result, a counter-trend, and all the institutions should be commended for it, but i am proud to say that it is above all our parliament. i hope that this result will open the minds of those who still do not want to understand how high the cost of non-europe is. the technical requirements to be met are the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that this is technically possible only for those budget lines on which there was already an amendment tabled by parliament. where this is not the case, we call on the commission to submit a proposal for a transfer as soon as possible. the relevant headings are 02 01 04 04; 04 01 04 05; 04 05 01; 04 05 02; 04 05 03; 09 03 01; 11 07 01; 24 02 02. secondly, the part of amendment no 209 relating to line 19 08 02 01 on the meda programme is approved for an amount of eur 25 056 550. this amendment is covered by the vote on block 1. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after these technical corrections, i propose that we proceed to the vote and i also take this opportunity to wish you all the best and warmest of happy holidays. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that if this amendment were to be rejected, we would be going beyond the ceiling agreed with the council and would therefore have some problems with the procedure. i therefore rely on the colleagues' sense of responsibility. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a minor adjustment, just to make it clear that the letter of amendment was made in accordance with point two, that is to say, the agreement between parliament and the council, but it is really a formal adjustment which does not affect the substance in the slightest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that we voted for the compromise amendment tabled last night by the green and socialist groups, to which i personally contributed, although i believe that this amendment is weaker than the text of article 21, which we helped to draft. we voted for this amendment in the interests of children, because we wanted this parliament to speak with one voice, strong and convinced, to send a message to romania so that the problem of intercountry adoptions can be solved successfully. we do not expect this to happen before christmas, but we hope that it will happen so that these children - who have a right to a family as a priority, as is enshrined in all the rules in force at international level - can be reunited with their parents. this is a human right, a fundamental right which parliament wishes to emphasize to romania, because among the various things it will have to do to conform to the european acquis, it will first of all have to ensure respect for human rights, in this case the right of children to have the joy and happiness of a family.
the agenda includes five motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in tibet and hong kong.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on russia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on ethiopia and the new border conflicts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 4.20 p.m.)
