mr. president, i want to ask you personally the same question as my polish colleague. that polish press had information about your speech and about the lithuanian role in the ukrainian orange revolution. i'm interested in your answer, which you gave to your polish colleagues. i would very much like to see this videotape of your speech in madrid also given to the 13 lithuanian members of the european parliament. because i believe in you, i'm not asking for your resignation and i actually want to talk about the more serious issues that you mentioned. there was a revolution in ukraine, there was a change. we and you, as leaders of this parliament, must start talking about the relations between the european union and ukraine. we need to start preparing a real program for how europe sees a renewed ukraine, what we are offering them, because the ukrainian people expect a lot. we should be glad that the ukrainians have repeated the polish and lithuanian experience of peacefully, unarmed and without violence making changes in their country. now we - the whole european union, all the nations - have to say: we need ukrainians, we offer you such steps, you must do such and such things. i think that's what you meant when you said there are far more important issues than the offer to resign.
dear prime minister, as a lithuanian i should be proud that the parliament of my country was the first to ratify the constitution for europe. however, most lithuanians have not seen, read, or considered it. the lithuanian parliament also did not consider them. on the other hand, i am convinced that this constitution is in the best interests of my people and my country. however, i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to article 8 of paragraph 1 of the constitution, which provides for the use of the word 'euro' in the name of the single currency of the european union in all the languages of the european union. it is contrary to a fundamental principle of the constitution and the very foundation of the european union, namely respect for national languages and cultures. this article, which is based on council regulation no 974/98 of 1998, should make an unprecedented contribution to the grammatical systems of the seven new languages of the european union, including lithuanian, which have been established over thousands of years and which express meaningful relationships not in word order, not in the form of a single word, but by the play of words. the regulation, which was published six years ago, before the accession of new countries to the european union, does not allow the word 'euro' to be used lightly. such a prohibition is contrary to article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 53 of the treaty on european union on the authentic equality of the official languages of the european union, as well as to article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on subsidiarity and article 151 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on the cultural policy. my question to the commission and the council is why this is not taken into account four months after the mr almunia, commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, replied that the word 'non-flexibility' was used in the constitution, as it was established by the council regulation. the council closed, but the disrespect for national languages remained. if such a prohibition remains in the constitution, then in the lithuanian version and in all legislation we will have a lot of not only agrammatical, but also absurd statements. i hope that parliament will take these arguments into account. thank you for your attention.
in this parliament, i represent the citizens of the countries that have already ratified the constitution of the european union. lithuania was the first of the eu member states to ratify the document on 11 november last year, just a few weeks after it was signed in rome. it is true that the decision was not taken in a referendum of the citizens, but in one of the last sessions of the parliament at the end of its term. it is also true that the constitution of the european union was ratified in lithuania without detailed discussions on the provisions of this document, which should be known, or at least not alien to the citizens of lithuania, in particular in order for them to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the constitution of the european union. why, in my opinion, should the european parliament vote in favour of the amendment of this constitution? the first. yes, we can live under the nice treaty until 2009, but it has long been clear that the enlarged european union cannot function effectively without the necessary institutional changes, without a new effective division of responsibilities between the european union institutions, but also between the european union and the member states, between the european parliament and the national parliaments. the european union cannot function well without an effective decision-making mechanism, without more active citizen participation, without clear and transparent accountability of the european union institutions to the citizens. it is as obvious as the slogan of the mendes de vigo and corbett report that an adult cannot wear the clothes of a child whom he has long since grown up to be. secondly, the european union is striving to become one of the most competitive and dynamic regions in the world. i believe that in order to achieve this objective it is important not only to formulate the priorities for the enlargement of the european union correctly and to ensure the necessary and sufficient funding for them, but also to achieve order in the european union, particularly in institutional terms. i'm finished, chairman. i would also like to see a provision on the christian roots of the european union in the preamble to the constitution of the european union. despite the fact that it does not contain such a provision, i shall vote in favour of ratifying this imperfect but good enough document. thank you. thank you.
in support of the report, i would like to remind you once again that lithuania was the first country to ratify this constitution by a decision of the parliament. the lithuanian social democrats, who were and remain in power, took an active part in the drafting of the constitutional treaty after the recent elections. when the parties were asked to legally formalize what they had all agreed upon collectively and with great difficulty, we did so without delay. we had reason to be. a year and a half ago, lithuanians voted the clearest "yes" among the new members in a referendum on eu membership. support for eu membership in lithuania is rising steadily, reaching 82%. people see the hopes for the european union coming true and want it to be stronger. the failure of a referendum on the constitution in any country of the european union would, i believe, be a painful blow to the hopes of most europeans, including lithuanians. today, the european union's ships, which already include 25 countries, are powered by an engine that is clearly too weak to handle such a load - the treaty of nice. unless it's replaced by a more powerful engine, the constitution, our collective ship will slow down, drift away. with the old nice engine, we will never achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, nor will we be able to implement the new neighbourhood policy effectively. this is particularly relevant for the new countries of the european union. a strong democratic european union moving forward is not just in our country's best interests. the constitutional treaty, however complex the compromise, contributes to this. lithuania has been determined to ratify it so that the energy and optimism of the new countries can be passed on to the old ones of the european union. thank you. thank you.
commission. the commission underlines that the european neighbourhood policy framework is very important, and it wants to reinforce further the relationship between the enlarged european union and its neighbours, including belarus. a key principle of the 'ring of friends' is forging joint ownership. the union cannot impose its policy on anyone, but it is ready to convince its neighbours of the benefits of the enp. the union is offering closer cooperation across the spectrum of its relations – from political dialogue to economic integration – on the basis of commitment to common values. this offer is, in principle, also valid for belarus. through the enp, the union is ready to reinforce its lasting commitment to supporting democratic development in belarus. if and when fundamental political and economic reforms take place, it will be possible for belarus to be fully involved in the enp, with all the benefits that would bring. under current conditions, however, there can be no fully-fledged enp action plan for belarus. the october 2004 parliamentary elections and the referendum were important milestones for belarus under the enp, but, unfortunately, belarus failed to achieve them. however, there remains a clear prospect for deepening relations, including under the framework of the enp, provided that fundamental reforms are carried out. at present, a key element – and this is also an issue in eu policy towards belarus – is to support civil society and the process of democratisation. in addition, belarus will continue to be able to benefit from the relevant regional, cross-border and thematic programmes. the commission is stepping up its effort to coordinate assistance for democratisation and civil society. moreover, the commission is also looking – and here i want go into detail – into the possibility of supporting civil society and the democratic process in a flexible manner. in the first place, the assistance should be operational and managed in the country concerned. but the commission does not a priori exclude specific situations where a project would be implemented mainly outside belarus. the modalities for doing so need to be carefully considered in the light of the relevant rules and regulations. support for independent media and information dissemination is among the key priorities of eu assistance. a radio or television station broadcasting to belarus outside the country is an interesting idea, but requires further clarification as to whether such an initiative could be supported by eu funds under the existing rules and regulations. as to the question of opening a delegation in belarus, it must be borne in mind that the eu has limited resources for extending its network of fully-fledged delegations. belarus is covered by the european commission delegation in kiev, which has a technical assistance office in minsk. the commission will look into the possibilities of allocating, within the existing structures, additional human resources for work in belarus. at the moment, opening a european commission delegation in minsk is not, however, being considered.
- i'm not sure. i also congratulate you on your first question and answer period. i draw the conclusion from your detailed replies that the commission will indeed be quite active in belarus. one question: do you think it is possible to cooperate with the current authorities in belarus even under the current circumstances?
mr president, the whole issue of children has been invisible in eu policies and programmes. however, children's rights are now mentioned in the constitution and the charter of fundamental rights. it is important that progress is made towards a horizontal european policy on children. children cannot defend themselves. thus it is our obligation to do this. every day we hear about children who are starving, dying or abused in all possible ways. however, there is no mention in your programme of a full-scale strategy on children's rights in accordance with the un convention on children's rights, which was ratified by most european countries. children are vulnerable to trafficking. the recently published report on trafficking in human beings by the experts group has a strong human rights dimension. i urge the luxembourg presidency to take this forward, including a specific legal instrument to promote and protect the rights of children who have been trafficked. the luxembourg presidency has stated that a directive on the return of asylum seekers is a priority. it is important that there is a specific section to protect the rights of children and that unaccompanied children are not returned to their countries of origin without an assessment of what is in their best interests. the mainstreaming of children's rights in european union development policy has not been achieved. i urge the luxembourg presidency to address this failure without delay by calling for a communication on children's rights and new development cooperation and by supporting references to children's rights as a priority. i further urge it to revise the development policy statement. the implementation of new guidelines to safeguard children in conflict areas remains a concern. in order to ensure progress, it is essential that the luxembourg presidency takes this process forward by completing and putting into practice a plan of action. in conclusion, it is vital that children's rights are made a priority of the luxembourg presidency and that children's rights are included in the presidency conclusions.
mr president, the main item today is palestine, but i want to turn our attention back to iraq. palestine is in the middle of a chain of extremely remarkable events, including elections in afghanistan, palestine and iraq. therefore, sunday’s forthcoming challenge is not a single event, but part of a set of very significant changes that have been going on recently in the most wounded part of the islamic world. we do not have to blame it, as some used to, or welcome the possible boycott, but welcome and expect the firm stance and good turnout at the polls by the iraqi people. i was impressed some time ago by reports from afghanistan about millions of women going eagerly and resolutely with a feeling of human dignity to vote for the first time in their lives and in the history of their country. now it may happen in iraq and that is to be blessed by god, who is common to christians and muslims. hopefully it will happen there, despite the efforts of non-divine forces. whatever the case may be, one can be absolutely sure that under saddam hussein or after a victory for terrorists, it could never happen. a good turnout on sunday would be the most important vote, not for competing parties, but for a new life, as the vote of people released from the slavery of fear.
mr president, after so much consolidation and solidarity in relation to amendments, i will ask you to accept one very small oral amendment to the last line of recital a, concerning only two words. after the reference to victimisation on the basis of race, ethnic origin or religion, it is to insert ‘social classification’. this is because we are insisting that europe must not forget its own history. millions were deprived of all their rights, including their lives, for social reasons, the final solution with ‘class enemies’. ‘social classification’ is a very soft wording and i would ask you to support those two words on the grounds of history.
thank you, mr. chairman. i would like to say that we are currently considering two documents at the same time, which are in principle well prepared but complement each other. they have to provide the economic basis for the stability and growth pact, again the third group of documents we are considering, and perhaps we should consider that if we want to send a clear message to our citizens, to the citizens of the european union, to the business community, and ultimately to the general public, perhaps we should pay more attention to some kind of unified set of provisions in a single document that would provide the basis for macroeconomic stability, the stability and growth pact. it is naive to expect that the stability and growth pact can be maintained or consolidated by any legal provisions or criteria. and i say this from my experience of fifteen years of reforms that my country has implemented. we need to look beyond differences if we want to implement reforms, we need to look for consensus. and i think there are four points that we can agree on, and which from our experience of reforms, we can conclude can have a positive impact on the economy. firstly, that the return on investment needs to be considered, as not all investments are necessary. structural reforms need to be addressed, but they cannot be addressed without fiscal measures, because structural reforms create unemployment, and support is needed, but support alone cannot be addressed, otherwise the budget will not be sustained. we need to focus on the development of new businesses, so we need to look at how to simplify tax administration so that small businesses, small businesses can operate successfully in europe. and fourth, the most difficult point: we have to see that cheap goods are flowing into europe, we have to see cheap countries around us and we have to start thinking about how to reduce taxes, of course without affecting the macroeconomic balance, because there is a lot that can be achieved, as our experience of reforms shows, by implementing better tax administration. it is not surprising that many countries now face problems of profit shifting, of reducing value added tax, because there is a great source of better tax administration and reducing the tax burden, and it can be done, as the experience of our countries shows. i think that's the most successful way to use what we've learned. thank you. thank you.
the rapporteur. thank you, mr president, i just want to brief all the members of parliament. statistics are boring, but your country's taxpayers will have to fill in a lot of new reports now if you vote. it's in advance so you can tell them what parliament has done, so you don't have to do a lot of statistical reporting. businesses will have to fill out new statistical reports, and i'm sure you, many of your constituents, will have questions. so i just wanted to inform you of what has been done by parliament, in cooperation with the council and the commission, to reduce that statistical burden. we vote with you for the introduction of the so-called european model schemes, once some companies have submitted their reports; small countries with less than 1% of gdp in the european union will be able to withhold some of the indicators altogether; and we will allow governments to use administrative sources, i.e. social security registers, and companies will not have to complete additional reports. it also provides for the european commission and the member states to develop a one-off methodology to assess whether the introduction of new statistical reporting is worthwhile and cost-effective for european businesses and people. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr. chairman. as is well known, parliamentary elections will be held in moldova on 6 march, which i hope to be able to observe as a member of the delegation to observe the elections to the european parliament. but today i would also like to express my concern about the situation in moldova before the elections. the situation in moldova is complicated, in particular, by the still unresolved transnistrian issue. because the international community, including the european union, has so far failed to convince russia to honour its 1999 istanbul commitments and withdraw its troops from transnistria. the transnistrian region has become a region for money laundering, arms production and illicit exports. which in turn directly or indirectly serves organized crime and international terrorism. today, commissioner valdner expressed concern about the upcoming electoral environment, because of the influence that has been trying to be exerted from within the country for some time. this was also stated by the moldovan prime minister, v. tarleva, at a press conference in brussels yesterday and is being reported by news agencies around the world today. in conclusion, i would like to express the hope that the european union, the international community, will not be powerless, that the european union will not only monitor the elections and monitor the situation, but will also help the democratic forces of moldova with concrete actions and will not allow the situation in that country to be destabilised. thank you. thank you.
member of the commission. the honourable member is correct. the lack of interconnection between the baltic states and the rest of the european union is a cause for concern. it is an important requisite for the proper functioning of the internal electricity market and for security of supply in the region. therefore, an urgent task is to integrate the electricity network into the rest of europe. the commission is supporting new investments through its energy trans-european network programme. in the baltics, the project moving forward is the estlink project. this underwater cable will link the baltic states to the scandinavian power grid and is expected to be completed in 2006. it will help to diversify the power supply in the region and increase security of supply. the other key electricity interconnection project in the region is the poland to lithuania link. to facilitate progress, the commission will be contributing half the cost of the study on the link. several options are being examined for the power bridge between poland and lithuania. it is a rather complex issue and needs good cooperation between all parties involved. the ten energy guidelines are currently under discussion at the european parliament, though mainly in relation to co-financing feasibility studies. the actual construction of the interconnection is up to the countries and companies involved. the poland to lithuania link is mentioned as a project of european interest, and the commission is facilitating progress on that issue. for instance, on 18 march there will be a meeting between polish and lithuanian representatives in brussels to discuss the current polish and lithuanian transmission development plan, including the power bridge between both countries. i have had personal contacts with the representatives of the two countries and am confident that the power bridge between poland and lithuania will be created.
thank you very much, commissioner, for your comprehensive and detailed reply. i would like to ask whether you agree with the view recently expressed by the prime minister of lithuania, mr algirdo brazauskas, that poland still has a reserved attitude towards this electric bridge between lithuania and poland? i would also like to know your opinion on the fact that in lithuania there is a growing feeling that in the current situation, when lithuania is still dependent on one side of the energy supply, and when lithuania is increasingly talking about the possibility of extending the second unit of the ignalina nuclear power plant? in particular, taking into account the latest scientific information on the safety of rbmk reactors and the technical prospects for the second unit to operate for about 12 years. what would the commission think of such an extension? thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr. chairman. in the context of the system of generalised preferences, i would like to refer to the question of rules of origin and interregional cumulation in the context of the textile sector. the principle of origin, which has been in force until now, should be applied and interregional cumulation should be avoided. interregional cumulation would simplify the application of the rules of origin, but would bring real benefits to more competitive countries such as china, but not to the least developed countries. the abolition of the origin rule would open the eu market to competition from an additional 30 developing countries, including india, and would prevent countries affected by the tsunami, such as sri lanka, from competing effectively. the benefits to those eu member states that have shifted their textile production to asian countries, but the damage to the textile industry in the southern eu and the new member states, would increase unemployment through the collapse of the textile sector and would not contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives. the concept of the eu single market would become incomprehensible in general in the context of global cumulation. i would like to point out that the international trade committee rejected the proposal for interregional and global cumulation. thank you. thank you.
mr. chairman, we never talk about children's rights, as if they didn't exist, but they do. children who are experiencing sexual violence, children who are experiencing other forms of violence, there are child soldiers, there are children who are hungry, there are children who are hungry, and there are also children who are out of school. commissioner frattini is well aware of all these problems and i think you could agree with the commission that this problem, the problem of children's rights, could be discussed in plenary.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the great confidence you have given me to express my views on behalf of budgetary control on a matter of great importance to us all. today we will be voting on the european parliament's budget for 2003. a position on whether our institution, the european parliament, is using the funds, which are the money of all european citizens, of our voters, fairly and transparently. i would also like to thank my colleagues who have actively contributed their advice and work to the preparation of this report. they submitted their proposals and amendments and took part in the discussions. the debate took place in the committee on budgetary control and was very active in my alde political group. liberals and democrats have always defended and will defend the right of the people to accurate information, to publicity and transparency, because that is the foundation of democracy. we know that openness and transparency are not mutually exclusive. it is a means of operating the institution efficiently and, most importantly, of being accountable to the people. the people this institution works for. european citizens are becoming increasingly intolerant of ignorance, lack of information and dependent on those to whom they have entrusted their votes, whom they have elected to these houses. they want the money they pay to have added value, i.e. to be used in a targeted and efficient way. let me briefly present my report, which will be approved by the committee on budgetary control. this report differs from previous reports in that a new financial management system was introduced in 2003 and an internal audit system was set up in the european parliament. this is a major step towards more fair and transparent budget planning and use. so i would like to congratulate you, the chairman, and also the secretary general of the bureau. the new provision is that from this year onwards the president of the european parliament will be given the discharge for the implementation of the budget, rather than the secretary-general of the bureau as was the case in the past. the report focuses on four themes. firstly, the management, how the key decision-makers, i.e. the office and the quaestors, are accountable. the rotation principle is proposed here. the second theme is the use of funds allocated to political groups. it should be noted that some progress has been made in this respect, i.e. the publicity of the use of funds through the publication of information on the websites. however, areas for improvement were also identified: the report suggested that the political groups prepare standard annual reports and make public the use of funds. thirdly, the allowances to members of parliament. this is a long-running debate. disputes between institutions and, most importantly, different interpretations and suspicions about the opaque system. the fact that when new countries join, membership salaries differ by a factor of 12 is an unpleasant fact. i think it is unfair that we all work in the same european institution and should be paid equally for the same work. i think it's wrong not to account for the money that's been used for general expenses. these funds must also be recorded. another sensitive issue is our workplace in brussels and strasbourg. i leave that question to your wisdom, as to how you will vote. i think the constitution rightly states that there are two places for the european parliament to work. jean monnet said back in 1952 that we wanted to unite not countries, but people. the european parliament is the house in which we work and through which european citizens can come together. they will only be united if we are open to each other, if we work transparently and ensure that the european budget is used and planned correctly.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the quality of the dialogue for this discharge procedure has been excellent. my fellow commissioners and i were very happy to participate and i warmly thank the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mr fazakas, for the kind and efficient way he led the proceedings. i welcome the resolution adopted in the committee on budgetary control, its broad support for the commission’s efforts and achievements and its very constructive approach. it deals with the core political issue of the statement of assurance – das. on behalf of the commission, i congratulate you once more, mr wynn, for having contributed so well to bringing so much progress on the statement of assurance in so short a time. you, and the court of auditors with its opinion on the ‘single audit’, have served an excellent first service. the ball is now in our court and, together with the council, we will try to return it with both speed and precision. fortunately, contrary to tennis, this is a game where everybody wins. indeed, we all win if the four relevant institutions – the commission, the council, the court of auditors and the european parliament – are able to agree on a roadmap towards a positive das in the near future. the key element in the roadmap, as in the resolution you are adopting today, will be how member states can provide reasonable assurance to the commission that adequate supervisory and control systems are in place. the commission will present a proposal for a roadmap to a positive das before july 2005. i hope and expect that the united kingdom’s presidency will pick up the proposals and lead trialogue negotiations towards an interinstitutional agreement in the autumn. time presses, as legal changes may be needed, both in the legislative package of the new financial perspective and in the financial regulation. mobilising and motivating the member states will not be easy and the commission continues to need your support. we can demonstrate that we are doing our part and are prepared to do it better. for instance, the commission’s accounting system has been successfully converted and is now fully operational. in addition to this, the previous commission achieved a great deal through its administrative reform and the committee on budgetary control’s resolution is a welcome recognition of this. however, our roadmap will announce further steps the commission will take to strengthen the community control framework. i am happy to inform you that our roadmap has strong links with another initiative, the ‘transparency’ initiative, the purpose of which is to make more data about eu finances available to a wider section of the union’s population. i will not comment on the sectoral sections of the committee on budgetary control’s resolution, although i am prepared to respond to any particular questions you may wish to raise. nonetheless, i would like to add a few words on the four amendments to the committee on budgetary control’s resolution to be put to your vote. firstly, i would welcome your support for the amendments proposed by mr casaca to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. indeed, the court of auditors’ statement that outstanding commitments for the structural funds represented ‘five years’ worth’ of spending is misleading, since the court included commitments to be made until 2006 under the seven-year programming of the structural funds. the outstanding commitments were, in fact, less than two and a half years’ spending. this is normal, as spending is intended to continue up to the end of 2008 and the final payment is due in 2010. it is therefore incorrect to conclude that the programme was not well managed or that funds will remain unused. i hope you will be able to correct this important point today. secondly, i would like to comment briefly on the amendment relating to the role of the accounting officer. what is my answer today? firstly, that we will take this very seriously. i have had numerous meetings at different levels and with various well-known critics of the commission’s accounting system. we consider this a very important issue and one of the key elements in our roadmap. we are studying the implication of the proposal for the accountant to sign off the accounts. we welcome the fact that parliament has raised this issue and we will come back with specific proposals. you are right: there are supporters and opponents of the views presented in parliament’s amendment. in my view, there are many questions of this kind where we can say that the matter lies in the details or beyond the details. the main question, in my view, is how to guarantee the right balance between policy-making and financial or fiscal management. contradictions arise here between the view that the units and directorates-general are responsible for policy-making and the concern that this approach should be balanced so that the financial management will support this policy-making and not interfere with it. it is clear to me, therefore, that this would be one of the most important points and i promise that we do not underestimate this issue but take it very seriously. i would now like to add a few words on the specific discharges related to the european development fund – edf – and the agencies. as regards the edf, i would like first of all to thank the rapporteur, mrs xenogiannakopoulou, for a good report and for her open and constructive attitude during the discharge procedure. the commission was, of course, pleased that the court was able to give a positive das for the edf. the report contains recommendations on many important issues. the commission will follow up these recommendations in the months to come, but i can say already that we are in agreement on the main issues. we will, of course, keep parliament informed on developments relating to the new accounting system, budgetary support and devolution. finally, let me thank parliament once more for its support for the commission’s proposal to budgetise the edf. we believe this is a one-off opportunity to achieve better, simpler and more efficient implementation of the edf, which will be of great benefit for the acp countries. as regards the agencies, i would also like to congratulate mrs ayala sender and mr schlyter. the agencies are autonomous bodies and it is the directors of the agencies, not the commission, that receive discharge from the european parliament. however, since all the 14 agencies concerned by the 2003 discharge receive grants charged to the general budget, the commission notes with satisfaction that parliament proposes to give discharge to the directors of all 14 agencies for the financial year 2003. the commission will continue to do its utmost to provide all necessary assistance to the agencies in the future, in particular as regards budgetary, financial and accounting issues. moreover, within its area of responsibility, the commission will follow up the requests addressed to it by parliament in the discharge resolutions for the agencies. i will conclude by encouraging parliament to support the committee on budgetary control’s proposals. i can assure you that the commission will forward the recommendations upon which you will decide. finally, it is a unique opportunity for all institutions to go ahead with creating more trust in european institutions. we must escape from under the shadow of suspicions, the shadow of the collapse of a certain commission several years ago, and reassure citizens that we deal with all matters, including wrongdoing, in the proper way, so that we can create for the european institutions a reputation for reliability. (applause)
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. the president, ladies and gentlemen. the use of the general budget in 2003 shows that a great deal of effort was put into implementing development policy, particularly in pursuit of the millennium development goals. the european commission has improved its settlement system, and has set out ten key indicators to measure progress towards the millennium development goals. however, we believe that the commission is not giving enough attention and support to the candidate countries of the european union, which have become members with a weak preparation for implementing the european union's development policy. this gap needs to be addressed by focusing on and allocating resources to development training in the new member states and by promoting the exchange of experience between the old and new member states. as bulgaria, romania and croatia prepare to enter a new stage of enlargement, the eu needs to give due attention to development policy commitments as they prepare to join. in assessing the implementation of the 2003 budget of the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th european development funds, it should be noted that the commission has failed to put in place adequate procedures for assessing community assistance. the decentralisation of the commission's representations in western countries is not based on organisational measures, and there remains a need to improve the control of the effectiveness of management and decision-making. the form of budget support facilitates the commission's work, but in the absence of an adequate control mechanism, it does not provide a real incentive for the governments of the beneficiary countries to take responsibility for their citizens and this allows for the implementation of an uncoordinated development policy. for example, logging for consumption is a drain on natural resources. the budgetisation of the european development fund in the new financial perspective would only make it easier to manage the aid, but this in itself, like budget support, would not guarantee the effectiveness of the aid. efforts are therefore needed to further improve the management and control instruments for support.
the chairman, ladies and gentlemen. as regards the implementation of the millennium development goals, it is proposed to double aid to developing countries for at least a decade, to write off all debts by 2015, and to seek new sources of additional aid by introducing new taxes for eu countries. however, the effectiveness of the aid is the least discussed. the absence of conditions such as the efficiency of the use of loans granted, the positive trend of social and economic development, the requirements of democracy and the implementation of human rights, discourages developing countries from taking responsibility for the social and economic development of their countries and from feeling accountable to their citizens. as regards aid to developing countries, we should rethink the european union's policy of support and propose measures that go beyond the millennium development goals and seek to promote economic growth in developing countries, in particular investment, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, while enabling developing countries to rise to the level of more developed and developed countries. thank you. thank you.
i respect you, chairman. i would like to make a couple of comments on rule 47 of mrs kinnock's report. it presents a superficial and inhumane approach to the abortion problem. it treats abortion as a technical procedure, where concern is expressed only for the physical safety of the woman, nothing is said about the psychological aspects, and only about the woman, not about the person who could have been born. it also approves of any kind of regulation, because it says that there should be some kind of regulation. it may be completely unacceptable in some countries, especially outside the european union. in this respect, not only the initiators of abortion but also the european parliament itself are contributing to the perpetuation of cruelty in our society. i'm sure of it. i'm sorry it happened.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, as the ppe-de group’s shadow rapporteur on the annual policy strategy for 2006, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, mr pittella, for the excellent work he has done in preparing the documents we are now discussing. the annual policy strategy presented by the commission in march establishes the commission’s policy priorities for 2006, identifies the initiatives that will help to achieve them, and adopts the budgetary framework so that the priorities receive the necessary resources. it is important to know that this is the first aps adopted by the new commission. at eu level 2006 will be critical with regard to the implementation of the five eu strategic objectives adopted by parliament, including the lisbon strategy, the sustainable development strategy and the social agenda (2006-2010), as well as the achievement of the main target of restored growth and jobs in europe. a review of the hague programme, linked to the entry into force of the constitution, is already foreseen for the second half of 2006. in addition, the eu enlargement process will enter into a new phase and the european neighbourhood policy will be deepened. the year 2006 will be critical in preparing for the 2007-13 financial perspective period, to ensure adequate programming, and establishing a new generation of financial instruments to be fully operational on 1 january 2007. our priorities for 2006 are the following: prosperity and solidarity; security within the union; a more competitive and cohesive europe; a europe that is stronger in the world. our budgetary strategy – its principles as well as sectoral priorities – are clearly identified in the report and a motion for a resolution that concerns structural operations, internal policies, agriculture, external actions as well as personnel and administration. i thank mr pittella for his cooperation and i support his report and motion for a resolution with the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group and, in particular, an amendment that calls on the commission to present by 31 july a review of the medium-term staff needs related to the requested new posts.
mr president, the report by mr brok contains many fresh, visionary and encouraging ideas. i want to add some remarks on the problems of the new, non-state terrorism. first, what more could we recommend than what mr brok does? the fight against so-called terrorism calls for a clear description of political terrorism. its aim is to achieve concrete political goals, and what are those goals? a distinction needs to be drawn between the new, political, non-state terrorism, which allegedly has no exact state address, and the traditional state terrorism, which is found mainly where democracy fails. that sort of political terrorism tends to provoke revengeful responses by certain groups and organisations, as is now happening with russia’s terrorist – or terrorising – war in chechnya. the democratic community cannot successfully confront any abstract concept of terrorism per se, as it would be rooted only in ideology or fanaticism. no, the real enemies to be fought are terrorist organisations and states that use such methods and support such organisations. two fresh efforts have been made to find addresses in afghanistan and iraq. they are now the only places where terrorist organisations appear to be on the defensive. in the field of defence, this would more than fulfil europe’s desire to compete with the united states. finally, there is a sort of diabolical profit to be made from this phenomenon of non-state terror, as democracies may now perhaps realise more clearly what their endangered values are. when creating the concepts and structures of the european security and defence policy, we should concentrate more and more on the question: for the sake of what, for what europe are we working? surely not for a consumerist and suicidal europe that is losing its identity and sense of values, despite talking so much about it? that is defending the indefensible.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking our colleague, mr coveney, for all his hard work on our annual report on human rights in the world 2004. a remarkable part of this report is dedicated to the countries in eastern europe that might in the future become members of the eu family, namely ukraine, moldova and even belarus. i wish to stress some points which are of great importance for improving human rights in that region. as part of the european parliament’s delegation, i had an opportunity to observe parliamentary elections in moldova. although the election results have been recognised by the international community, it is clear that the elections did not meet certain obligations with respect to a fully competitive electoral process, especially in relation to fair access to the media and impartial coverage of the campaign. in addition, arrests of opposition mps and other actions against peaceful demonstrations constitute clear violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression, association and assembly. even a meeting of international observers with the president of the country and ‘number one’ on one political party’s electoral list was used for his party’s campaign. another important point is to call on ukraine and moldova to crack down on smuggling to, from and through transnistria and to develop effective anti-corruption programmes for the customs, border guard and tax services, as well as the police. on the election day, we observers from this house were not allowed to enter transnistria, but it was clear that people in moldova and transnistria in particular had to face all the negative implications of that situation. last, but not least, we should again remind russia to withdraw its so-called peacekeepers and ammunition from moldova and specifically from transnistria, as without this precondition our recommendations to fight corruption, organised crime and the illegal export of weapons will remain gestures of our goodwill but will not become a reality.
mr president, i would like to make a few remarks on dual standards and practices in the european union institutions. eu standards mean the erosion of standards as principles. in many important cases it is difficult to conclude what has higher priority in our spectrum of common values: real respect for human rights or cheaper gas, gas that is likely to erode our principles and, in the end, europe. to the repeated remarks of my colleagues that russia is very important, my response is: yes, but the truth is more important. i am not going to criticise the great work done by mr coveney. i congratulate him. i am only concerned that the common mood of erosion has given rise to gaps or appeasing manoeuvres in so many of our documents. there is often a conscious or subconscious concern not to be too explicit, not to be too hard, not to irritate people even if they are wrong. is anybody here concerned about the 40 000 chechen children killed during the russian military operation? do colleagues appreciate the barbaric humiliation inflicted on the body of the assassinated legitimate president? we do not dare to state simple facts: that russia is not yet a country of shared values, that it is a country whose government allows unfair business practices in its desire to join the wto. for many of us, the priority of peace in the caucasus became a principle indirectly promoted by russian diplomacy: the integrity of the cemetery. we are in favour of it not giving any chance for the candidates for the cemetery to avoid such an enforced happy end.
colleagues, i would like to return to the history of the roma gypsies. the present and its problems always have a projection into the past that must be known. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, especially when it comes to the human tragedies that accompanied the great jewish tragedy, but are forgotten because they are the tragedies of smaller nations, like the genocide of the roma or the chechen-ingush during the second world war, and the chechen genocide was recognised by the european parliament last year. i saw a small exhibition in our parliament last week which moved me. i think we've been over this. it was a former roman concentration camp in lety, now in the czech republic, then under nazi occupation. not many exhibits, but they can't help but be disturbing. and that photograph that you have here of dozens of little, pretty, fun-loving children, of course, with black hair and black eyes, who are probably doomed to die. and the buildings of the former camp are not a museum, not a place of remembrance and of honoring the suffering, but a pigsty, a pig farm. no one would dare treat the auschwitz barracks like that, so even here we have very unequal opportunities, although we speak differently. i ask my czech colleague to do everything possible to change the situation in the lety area.
when we talk about financial market integration, we have to take into account a number of aspects. firstly, parliament's proposals to improve the functioning of this market are important not only for professionals but also for every citizen of the european union, which we often forget. after all, in one way or another, by purchasing insurance policies, by using the services of a bank, we all become participants in the financial market. and if you also look at the market investments of pension funds, it is easy to see that the quality of life has recently become more dependent on the functioning of the financial markets, and that the failure of even one institution can affect thousands and even hundreds of thousands of citizens. however, proper market management in the financial market cannot be achieved by introducing fine-tuning, because from my experience in this country, i can say that such administration is expensive, difficult to implement and ultimately does not protect investors but only constrains the development of the market. secondly, we cannot expect progress in the european single market if the national legal framework is different. we need to allow capital from all over the world to come into the european market, and that capital cannot come because there are national barriers to the functioning of the financial markets in europe. therefore, strong attention should be paid to the promotion of the activities of the various working groups on national laws affecting financial markets. thirdly, the current financial market regulation is lacking in complexity and fragmentation, and i do not support the proposal to refuse to pass new laws regulating the activities of the financial market. i think it is important to replace these fragmentary laws with comprehensive, well-designed directives. otherwise, these acts are initiated by the clearing organisations, as in the case of clearing and settlement. we must therefore create conditions in europe that are not only favourable to the big players but also favourable to the activities of national enterprises (small enterprises) and individual citizens at national level.
the year has passed since the european union's greatest expansion. ten new states, which had the bitter experience of the soviet occupation, and which until recently would have been called transition countries, have joined the european union's internal market with four essential market freedoms: the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital. one year's experience of working in internal market conditions, statistics on the transposition of internal market directives into national law in the new member states, shows that the newcomers are sufficiently successful in implementing their commitments. i would like to highlight in particular the achievements of lithuania, where i was elected to the european parliament. lithuania is the best implementing of the internal market acquis among the new member states and better than many of the older member states with more experience. one of the successes was the protocol on conformity assessment and recognition of industrial products, which the european commission proposed to the candidate countries as a tool to prepare them for working in the internal market. a year before eu membership, many countries had successfully implemented the new approach directives, but here we are talking about the successful implementation of the free movement of goods. the situation is different in the implementation of the movement of services and persons. the amendments to the services directive, which have abolished the principle of origin, are holding back the development of the internal market for services. it remains fragmented, limited and protracted. as regards the free movement of persons, i would like to remind you that the new member states are subject to a transitional period of seven years at the request of the old ones. only a few countries have opened up their labour markets since the beginning of development. i therefore invite the parliament, the european commission and in particular the member states to create a fully functioning internal market without any unlimited financial resources, thus providing real opportunities for the implementation of the lisbon strategy.
it's a very good point to make about smuggling into transnistria. but i think that there is another source of smuggling right here on the edge of europe, namely the kaliningrad region, from which huge amounts of smuggling are going to the countries of the european union. so far, they are travelling in very large numbers to lithuania and poland. i certainly do not dismiss the possibility, which is also suggested by the experts, that this contraband could reach the old states of the european union. first of all, it is the smuggling of excise goods. our proposal is therefore included in that paragraph 12 as a specific threat to the kaliningrad region by calling for the cessation of smuggling flows from that area to the countries of the european union.
paragraph 43 contained inaccuracies due to the 2003 amendments to the criminal code of uzbekistan, which essentially made torture and ill-treatment of prisoners a criminal offence. i therefore propose to replace the text which appeared in the original paragraph. calls on uzbekistan to free political prisoners and to outlaw torture and ill-treatment in custodyamend the textwelcomes amendments to the criminal code for outlawing torture and ill-treatment in custody and persecuting their use made in 2003; calls on uzbekistan to genuinely implement these changes and to free any remaining political prisoners.
mr president, i want to touch on a strange concept referred to several times recently: the assertion that the collapse of the ussr was ‘a tragedy for the russian people’. well, other peoples changed their status from captive nations to free nations. does the first statement mean that russian people are so different that liberation from soviet authoritarian tyranny made them tragically unhappy? no authority, not even the president of russia, has the right to present his nation in such a cartoon-like manner. we should be concerned with how to defend the dignity of the russian people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about some aspects of the organisation of working time we must first of all talk about those where employees support their families from their work and where the labour market is in the majority. the high unemployment rate, particularly in some of the new member states, the slow creation of new jobs and the decline of old jobs in some sectors, such as textiles, and the fear of losing one's job, particularly in the provinces, allow employers to abuse the opportunity to reduce jobs, threatening to dismiss if an employee does not agree to work overtime. working more than 48 hours a week in all branches of work can further worsen the condition of workers, especially those in the service sector, create not only physical but also moral discomfort, and have undesirable consequences for families, child rearing. if we justify the need for an extended working week by fearing that business may move out of the european union to china or elsewhere, then we must ask ourselves whether one of the most important motives for the creation of the european union - the well-being of its citizens - is becoming a slogan, or whether we should not look for other means of economic growth and competitiveness. on the other hand, the european parliament's proposal to add up the working time of workers with several contracts of employment deprives citizens in countries with low wages, such as the health sector, which is characterised by waiting times, of a decent standard of living. i therefore propose that, when the supplementary directive is adopted, opt-outs should not be introduced in all sectors and that working hours should not be reduced for people who are able to work under several contracts of employment on their own initiative, but that these decisions should be left to the national level.
, on behalf of the ppe-de group - the issue of quotas for the production of potato starch is of great concern to some of the new member states of the european union, in particular lithuania and poland. the problem is that the treaty of accession to the european union sets lithuania a very low potato starch production quota of 1211 tonnes per year, which is only 0.06% of the european union quota. the lithuanian quota was, as is known, established on the basis of the reference period 1998-2000, during which the production of potato starch in lithuania was at its lowest and is not at all in line with today's needs. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the honourable member of the european commission to the fact that this quota does not guarantee even the minimum economically justified capacity utilisation of the companies in this industry in lithuania. the potato starch industry in lithuania consists of only two factories. the combined technological capacity of these companies is 13000 tonnes of potato starch per year. lithuanian enterprises are therefore now operating at only 9% of capacity. if the current quota is maintained for a few more years, it will mean that the potato starch industry in lithuania will be ruined. the minimum economically justified capacity utilisation of undertakings would be between 4 and 5 thousand tonnes of potato starch per year, and lithuania therefore requests to increase its quota to at least 4855 tonnes per year, which would represent 0,25% of the european union quota. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the european union production quota for potato starch has not been used in recent years and that lithuania's request to increase the quota from 0,06 to 0,25% of the level of the total european union potato production quota will certainly not have a significant impact on the indicators of the european union internal market. however, the most important thing is that the increase in the quota for the production of potato starch in lithuania preserves social stability, jobs and the infrastructure of the two regions of the country, which is closely linked to the activities of these companies. of course, it is easier to destroy than to build, and the problem is that the destruction of this industry in lithuania will require compensation for its consequences, including financial ones, and all this is happening at a time when the consumption and demand for potato starch in lithuania is projected to grow and grow, and that in the cellulite and food industry it will increase to 8000 tons per year. therefore, the quota for the production of potato starch in lithuania should undoubtedly be increased.
on behalf of the uen group commissioner, colleagues, the question of potato starch production quotas seems simple and clear enough at first glance. it seems like we're just talking about numbers or percentages or ratios. unfortunately, behind those numbers are real people, their families, and their destinies. let me try to keep this short. lithuania, the country where i was elected, has a quota 10 times less than it can produce. as mentioned above, there are two potato starch factories in lithuania, both in rural areas. i want to emphasize the rural area. lithuania has a long tradition of potato cultivation, and this culture is well suited to us. the capacity of the factories is 13000 tonnes per year. lithuania, the fastest growing economy in the european union, has an increasing demand for this product, i.e. lithuania needs this product for its own needs, but the production quota of only 1200 tonnes per year does not allow lithuanian factories to operate at least in a minimally economically justified mode. you probably know very well what kind of efficiency can be achieved when companies are forced to work at 9 percent capacity. the current situation, i.e. production quotas, forces entrepreneurs to close these factories in rural areas. people who work and live there will lose their jobs. moreover, the factories are connected to the infrastructure of the two towns - heating, water supply, and so forth. so closing them will have very serious social consequences. the situation is all the more abnormal as the other member states have far more production quotas than they are able to produce or consume. so the solution is that lithuania can produce, can consume its own production, but it is not allowed to produce, it is forced to close factories. i think that is unfair and in no way consistent with the fundamental principles of the european union. i understand that the issue of quotas is very sensitive, but i'm not talking about the extra benefits, i'm talking about the chance of survival. the lithuanian ministry of agriculture has presented its arguments in great detail to the commission, but the commission did not consider it necessary to take them into account. i think that the commission can be understood, given that the quota issue is already very uncomfortable. perhaps the commission can do this because it is further away from the people. but the european parliament and its members must look at people's problems with much more sensitivity and depth, and not shy away from them, but deal with them in a real way. such quotas can be said to be negotiated. yeah, but it's bad, and it's not a sacred cow that can't be touched. if we see a problem, we have to deal with it responsibly. we talk a lot about rural development and support for rural areas. we're putting a lot of money into this, so it would seem unreasonable to tear down what can work efficiently and build something that requires a lot more money. is this an efficient and rational way to do things? i therefore believe that the proposed compromise to allow the reallocation of unused quotas is a positive step and will allow the member states and the commission to find a solution to this issue. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, for his determination and for the work he has done. i hope that my colleagues will support the report drawn up by mr wojciechowski and approved and amended by the committee on agriculture.
for the alde group i am the head of the delegation with the central asian republics and mongolia and we will soon be going to this region, to central asia and specifically to kyrgyzstan. many members of parliament believe, and the world has heard, that there has been a tulip revolution in kyrgyzstan. i would like to express my opinion on this matter perhaps a little differently. i think there has been a real movement in this country, a movement of people, but to call it a revolution like the one in ukraine or georgia, i think it would be too bold and i would urge parliament to be more careful in choosing those words. why do i say that? because the reality is that the public support is not clear, that is, what the people want and what the leaders want. this is where you should see the difference. however, for the european parliament and the european union, this region is of particular importance for two reasons. firstly, some countries in central asia, and kazakhstan in particular, are among the largest trading partners of the european union in terms of energy resources. and as you know, the neighbouring countries in the region, like china, are also very interested in bringing them on board. we must therefore pay particular attention to ensuring that cooperation is sustainable, that cooperation is geared to helping these countries build democracy. we have to learn from the united states about being active in this region, and i regret to say that the european union is not really very active, not really effective with its programmes, and we have to acknowledge that. although the commission says that we are one of the main financial backers in this region, that is, financially we allocate a lot of funds, but in terms of efficiency these funds are not well used. what's our purpose? what should be the european union's objective in central asia, in all countries and now in kyrgyzstan in particular? it's about ensuring democracy, it's about stability and order. it's a close cooperation between these countries. as i mentioned, the delegation will be visiting the country from 14 to 20 may. after the visit, we will be able to inform members of parliament about the real situation in kyrgyzstan and the region. i would also like to mention that on 2 june there will be a meeting with american representatives to coordinate action in the region. i invite all members of parliament to attend.
mr president, i would like to concentrate on three issues: the global level of parliament’s budget, personnel policy, and information policy. concerning the global level of parliament’s budget, the secretary-general’s proposal set the level of parliament’s budget at 20% of heading 5, which is eur 1 340 million. i strongly support the rapporteur’s proposal to reduce the appropriations of the contingency reserve by eur 30 million and enter in the buildings reserve an amount of eur 10 million. the report also underlines that the level of parliament’s budget should be determined on the basis of justified needs and reminds us that conciliation appropriations should be avoided. the european parliament’s personnel policy should be improved. improvements should be brought in to speed up recruitment procedures to fill the 750 unoccupied posts within the european parliament’s administration and to create a truly merit-based promotion system. the report also underlines its concern about the accelerated shift of auxiliary to contract staff and requests detailed information on this issue. i suggest that we, the european parliament, should call on the secretary-general to examine ways to mitigate the effects of the abolition of the status of existing auxiliary agents of the political groups who are awaiting the completion of recruitment procedures. we should call on the secretary-general to present the bureau with a proposal to modify the internal rules on recruitment adopted by the bureau on 3 may 2004, to enable political groups to benefit from the same recruitment provisions that apply to parliament’s administration. last but not least is information policy. the rapporteur supports improving the visitors’ service and strengthening the role of external offices. it is underlined that in order to reach the citizens, member states’ communication policy should take account of national differences. finally, i would like to thank mr dombrovskis for an excellent report.
i would first of all like to thank mr elmar brok for drawing up the draft resolution on this important issue. the enlarged european union brings together member states with different histories and experiences and different approaches to relations with russia. there are also members in this parliament who have different views on this issue, and i should like to congratulate them on the fact that we have been able to adopt a resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war by such a clear majority. there is not a family in my country that has not been touched by the soviet occupation. the second occupation. that is why the resolution we have adopted today is also about every lithuanian family. thank you, colleagues.
mr president, the resolution on the future of europe contains part of the historical truth. i congratulate our colleagues here. the remarks made about the war and post-war relations also mention the captive nations left behind the iron curtain. in 1988 and 1991, the russian people were considered, and often acted, as one of those captive nations, striving for democracy on the same side of the barricades with us, the baltic nations, against soviet totalitarianism. mr putin does not remember that because, at the time, he was still acting against germany. today’s leadership of russia is not making much of an effort to turn that conception of self-determination from the political and moral status of formerly captive nations to that of a captivating nation. therefore, the dismantling of the former captive nations is treated now in moscow as the greatest tragedy for one of them. allegedly, the russians were different from others in their prisons. such a misunderstanding is not just insulting and spiritually destructive for the ordinary russian people, but also harmful for sincere cooperation. mr president, you have a difficult task in this undertaking to urge the current russian leadership to abandon their legacy of soviet mindset and stop deploring everyday russia’s captivating past. our resolution opens the way for that.
the parties that were in the sphere of influence of the soviet union or in the composition of that union have their own specificities in relations with russia. for the first time since the recent enlargement of the eu, a resolution on this subject is being prepared in our presence in this parliament, the parliament of the great and powerful european union, but it is not a reckoning, it is a recognition of the importance of russia and a wish that it should follow the basic guidelines for the transition to democracy as it seeks its own way. is a country on the path to democracy where the opposition is weak and fading, where the press is suppressed, where the courts follow the orders of the government? the answer is important for the eu as a whole, and especially for russia's neighbours. great asian russia has for centuries sought a special way to bring it closer, to distance it from europe. now russia has a great opportunity to choose. it is important to be clear about what divides us, to try to reduce those differences and to affirm what unites us. we would like to cooperate with our neighbour russia not only as a strategic partner but also as a reliable, unwavering partner in the search for a common path based on common values. i think that's in russia's interest, too.
mr president, the majority of the new member states, unlike the old ones, do not enjoy a visa free regime with the united states. the washington administration has offered a roadmap to the new eu member states to facilitate their qualification for a visa free regime. the european union could make a more significant contribution to the resolution of this issue. this is also an issue of washington’s political will, and this will is to a large extent shaped by the us congress. i would suggest that the european parliament or the committee on foreign affairs should address the us congress to express the wish of meps that congressmen should consider this problem in a constructive manner and in a spirit of goodwill. a visa free regime for the new eu member states would contribute to the strengthening of transatlantic links and would promote political, economic and human change. this would once again demonstrate that all eu member states are equal.
for the alde group commissioners, it is good that this time the debate on the economic outlook is complex. we rarely say that europe today is a unique blend of technologically advanced old members and fast-growing new members, and that gives us a huge competitive advantage. that cultural diversity, that intellectual diversity in the world is the most important thing. new technologies are spreading very fast and only those who are able to use their creative energy more quickly and efficiently can lead the way. in order to harness this creative energy and to turn our cultural potential and heritage into a competitive advantage, we need to have clearly defined priorities. one of the problems with the european union's economic policy is that both the people and sometimes the policy makers themselves are so confused about the priorities, there are so many of them and we want to do everything at once that it is difficult to see where europe is going. i think if we defined three main directions in which we are going, it would be clearer to everyone. first of all, it is the modernisation of the economy and its structures. we want more creative industries, new economic sectors, and the lisbon strategy can help us achieve this. we want to modernise our knowledge, our social structure, because only a qualitatively new knowledge, a qualitatively new social environment can unleash human creative energy and make use of the cultural heritage that europe has accumulated. well, the third thing that we need to talk about, and we don't always want to talk about it, is the modernisation of the institutional set-up of the european union. the successful adoption of a new constitution will facilitate this modernisation, but we probably also need to talk a lot about how the commission itself works, how parliament works and how all the institutions work, because the abundance of programmes, the abundance of agencies impresses the population, they just don't know where to turn. and one of the priorities must be not only to reduce the flow of legislation, to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and citizens, but also to have a clearer management structure, a structure for the distribution of funds. these are our priorities.
mr president, i wish to insert a new paragraph after paragraph 31 concerning russia’s very outdated current social security legislation. this legislation provides for russian military action in the baltic states that are in the european union and guarantees for the russian military to be used for this. this russian legislation was passed in 1993. it has since been amended several times. the last time was in 2003, but the baltic states are still mentioned in the legislation as a site for possible russian military action. i regret that the reply i received from the commission was very weak. if parliament is to be more consistent in its position on such absurdity, your support is required. the text of the oral amendment is as follows: ‘suggests that russia delete from its existing social security legislation the reference to the baltic states as an area where the russian military may even now be deployed and harmed in armed conflict;’ i ask for your support.
mr president, my oral amendment is as follows: ‘calls for the conclusion of an agreement between the lukoil company, controlled by the russian government, and the lithuanian government on guarantees of compensation in the event of an environmental catastrophe at the d-6 oil drilling facility near the curonian peninsula, a unesco world culture heritage site;’
for the alde group a long-sought solution to ensure the security of gas supply at cross-border level in order to address the security and diversification of supply in the baltic region of the european union. the rapporteur has also drawn attention to this in her speech today. the guidelines under consideration include two projects on the priority list: the northern european gas pipeline route under the baltic sea from russia to germany and the yamal-europe pipeline route via belarus and poland to germany. projects of common interest include the 'gintarin project' - a gas pipeline from russia to germany via latvia, lithuania and poland. it is understood that the specific pipeline routes depend on the agreement between the gas companies and the interested states, but i would venture to point out that the northern european gas pipeline project partially ignores the interests and needs of all the eu states interested in the supply of gas along the route. the yamal-europe ii project does not meet the security of gas supply requirements as it passes through the territory of belarus, and recall the blockade of gas supply through belarus in february 2004. in order to ensure the security of supply of natural gas to consumers, to create a functioning common market for gas and to meet the growing demand for natural gas in the european union in the medium and long term, the additional interconnection of the gas systems of eastern and western europe is necessary, and i therefore propose that the new decision on the council and european parliament project for the gitarny gas pipeline from russia to the european union, as a possible variant of yamal ii, be included in the first annex to the list of projects of common interest, the list of priority projects. such a merger is in line with the priorities set out in the community guidelines in 2003 and the project under consideration. such a pipeline route would also help to address the security concerns of the european union, and in particular the baltic region.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot of course answer in a few minutes all the important points made during a debate of about three hours. i would just like to make a few very quick remarks. i believe there is a broad consensus that measures against terrorism are needed at european level, actions linked in an organic european strategy, proportionate measures based primarily on prevention, cooperation, including international cooperation, and respect for fundamental human rights, including, of course, and above all, the right to privacy, which many people in this house have mentioned. there is another principle which i feel i must emphasize: no one can be suspected of terrorism on ethnic or religious grounds, because that would really mean the victory of terrorism which aims at the clash between religion and civilization. the european union has a duty to help the victims of terrorism, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the victims of terrorism. we must know the roots to root them out, never to justify them. there is a profound distinction between these two concepts. the measures decided at european level, namely the action plan, must also be fully implemented. as you are probably aware, many member states have not yet implemented many of the measures set out in the action plan. i can only mention two positive examples so far, those of denmark and hungary, two member states which have implemented all of them. i believe that they should be used as a model for the other member states of the european union. there is also a principle on which we all agree, namely the principle of solidarity. firstly, solidarity between the states. and here i agree fully with the president-in-office, minister schmidt: i believe that the principle enshrined in the constitutional treaty, which provides for mutual solidarity between member states when one of them is hit by terrorists, must be substantially advanced. secondly, solidarity with the victims of terrorism, another area of action on which europe must concentrate. there 's been a lot of talk about bioterrorism . the european commission, in the first place, can provide incentives to continue and strengthen the actions undertaken. it is working to encourage member states to take all the necessary measures to ensure adequate preparation in the event of a bioterrorist attack, and it hopes that it can count on the full support of this parliament in persuading all member states to act more decisively by investing more resources, because the threat of a bioterrorist attack cannot and must not leave us unprepared. we will inform parliament of all the measures we have taken, including the terrorist attack simulations and the international cooperation actions we are carrying out. in conclusion, mr president, i believe that the best weapon against terrorism is unity of action between the institutions, the commission, parliament, the council and civil society. we must explain to our citizens that only through the joint action of the institutions and society can a truly european response to the challenge of terrorism be given, which is a challenge to all of us.
president of the council. i think we have just had a very useful and very rich discussion on the need to fight terrorism by all means, provided that our fundamental rights and freedoms are safeguarded. i said earlier that we must maintain this balance at all costs. a number of countries want to set up a system to counter the means available to terrorists. we know that terrorists are using every conceivable and imaginable technique in an increasingly sophisticated way. this initiative is therefore worth pursuing and exploring, because it would give us a more effective way of countering the use of technologies, particularly through the internet. however, i would stress that the use of data retention must go hand in hand with respect for privacy and data protection. a balance must be struck between security on the one hand and freedom on the other. but we must not be forced to abandon the means which, in certain circumstances - let us remember once again 11 may 2004 - could prevent the death of a man, or even save the lives of tens and even hundreds or thousands of people.
mr president, recital c could be amended by the addition of a few simple words, as the first necessity is a clear definition of political terror and terrorism. i see this as a logical remark, as nobody could say that is better not to have a definition or that it is not worth making the effort. i would therefore ask you to support this amendment.
the böge report to parliament is a great example of the successful working together of the 25 enlarged member states of the european union. i'm sorry we're not enjoying this. it was very difficult to find a consensus on how to spend community funds, but this success demonstrates that the enlarged european union is viable and has a long-term vision for economic development. it is clear that a solution could have been reached both faster and better if no attempt had been made to reconcile national and european interests, if no technical details had been involved. sometimes it seemed to me that we were gathered as a bunch of accountants, not as leaders of society. we must understand that any financial planning starts with a common european vision, and that common european vision is shared by citizens and by the public. so the discussion about financial plans, annual plans that will clarify this perspective, should start with a discussion about that vision of the economy that we all need to have, and only then do we need to decide what areas, how to finance and how much funding will be needed. i am also missing this in the work of the european commission and i am very sorry that the president of the commission's speech today was a complaint to parliament from such a tired man about the problems of the negotiations.
for the alde group it seems that this perhaps technical issue that we're discussing tonight is actually related to a problem of government policy. how can state control be reconciled with free market elements in order to create the best conditions for economic development? obviously, there is no simple answer, but our experience of economic reform in emerging countries shows that the best results can be achieved when the problem is looked at in a complex way. the commission's proposal to abolish the indicative qualitative limits currently used by the customs staff of the countries to determine the quantities of excise goods for personal use to be imported under the tariff quotas is to be welcomed, as such a system was contrary to the essential provisions for the functioning of the common market. indeed, what kind of common market can we talk about if individuals cannot transport goods for personal use? however, the problems involved should not be overlooked. firstly, this is a problem because border countries, especially those on the eastern border, may face increasing smuggling flows, as alcohol is much cheaper in both russia and belarus, and the solution is not just to strengthen border protection to combat smuggling. i would urge the commission to draw attention to the need to reach agreements with the neighbouring eastern countries so that they too can cooperate with us in the fight against smuggling. the other problem we will face is that there will be a small layer of traders who will be transporting alcohol from one country to another, for example from estonia, where the excise is low, to finland, where the excise is high and the prices are higher. it is difficult to solve this problem without a comprehensive approach to the development of border regions, to the creation of new jobs in order to provide these people with opportunities to earn in another way. this means that there are always economic measures that can help to avoid negative consequences. the fact is that scientists have shown that the creation of a common market brings much more benefits, i.e. that the gdp per capita of the european union is 20% higher because of the existence of a common market. the advantages thus outweigh some of the problems which will arise in applying the provisions of this order.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in uzbekistan remains very serious, as president karimov continues to oppose an international inquiry into the tragic events that have recently occurred. according to various reports, more than five hundred uzbek refugees are still in kyrgyzstan. at the moment, the european union's efforts are focused on two objectives: putting pressure on president karimov to allow an international investigation to take place, and assisting the refugee populations in kyrgyzstan. in the longer term, however, we must not forget the need to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the region, and the need to pursue internal reforms in uzbekistan. from the beginning of the events in andijan, the presidency issued a statement on 14 may 2005 expressing its grave concern at the situation and calling on the parties not to give in to violence and to find a peaceful solution. the council followed very closely developments in uzbekistan and discussed this issue at the highest level. on 23 may 2005, it adopted conclusions on the situation in eastern uzbekistan. these conclusions send an urgent, clear and relevant message to the uzbek authorities. the council expressed its deep concern at the latest developments in eastern uzbekistan and strongly condemned the alleged excessive and disproportionate use of force by the uzbek security forces. the council urged the uzbek authorities to respect their international commitments to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it also called on them to allow humanitarian agencies and other international organisations immediate and unhindered access to the area in question. in addition, the council stressed the need to address the root causes of instability in the country through deep internal reforms, which should be implemented by the uzbek authorities. the council will coordinate its action with the osce and other international actors, such as the russian federation and the united states, in order to support the reform process. the council's message to the uzbek authorities is therefore clear: we are ready to assist you, but only on condition that you find a peaceful and lasting solution to the current situation and implement internal reforms that take account of the root causes of instability in the country. on 1 june 2005, the british local presidency in tashkent approached the uzbek foreign minister, mr ganiev, to ask the uzbek authorities to reconsider their refusal of an independent international inquiry and to remind him of uzbekistan's international commitments. the invitation by the uzbek authorities to the union ambassadors residing in tashkent to observe the national investigation into the events in andijan, by the prosecutor-general and the uzbek parliament, is not acceptable as a valid alternative to an independent international investigation. the secretary-general/high representative, mr solana, decided to send his personal representative for human rights, mr matthiessen, to kyrgyzstan and uzbekistan. his mission was not possible due to the refusal of the uzbek authorities to grant him a visa. the council considers this to be a very disappointing, if not worrying, development in relations between the european union and uzbekistan. despite president karimov's continued refusal to accept the request for an independent international inquiry into the events in andijan, the council will continue to insist on and coordinate with the osce, the un and other international organisations the operational modalities of such an inquiry, in the event that the uzbek authorities do not reconsider their decision. depending on the response of the uzbek authorities and the results of any investigation, the council will take appropriate measures.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission fully subscribes to the council declaration which clearly and unambiguously sets out our concerns over recent events in uzbekistan. we have been shocked by the appalling loss of life. we are concerned by the resulting movements of people away from the violence over the border with kyrgyzstan and by the reported excessive and disproportionate use of force by the uzbek security forces. it is clear to the commission that the people of uzbekistan urgently need to work towards a peaceful and sustainable solution to the present situation. the commission notes the suggestion made by the uzbek authorities in relation to the international inquiry contained in the letter of 31 may from president karimov to united states secretary of state condoleezza rice, a copy of which was sent to commissioner ferrero-waldner. it is essential that the uzbek authorities immediately allow a full independent international inquiry into the recent events. the commission considers it important that dialogue is maintained and that it is possible for diplomatic envoys to transmit messages to uzbekistan. even before the shocking recent events, the commission was working to bolster uzbekistan’s fragile reform process. we have to be realistic about what can be achieved, but i believe that working, for example, with the uzbek parliament to help create a modern legislature is crucial to improving the lot of the uzbek people. what we have seen in uzbekistan in recent weeks, following the events in andijan – not only the appalling loss of life, but the response by the authorities to international criticism and the reported crack-down on human rights groups and defenders – only underlines how important it is to keep the reform process alive. this would be the worst possible moment to pull out or to isolate the country. at the same time, however, this does not mean business as usual. the commission has already sent a delegation of officials to uzbekistan to investigate what more we can do to support reforms and importantly, to improve living conditions in the fergana valley. in the coming weeks, we shall be finalising our proposals to be implemented under the tacis programme. our existing poverty reduction programme for the fergana valley works in all three countries – uzbekistan, kyrgyzstan and tajikistan – amongst which the valley is divided. there is some scope within our existing resources to do more and the commission is determined that the opportunity is not missed. in the meantime, we will continue to work to the tacis technical assistance programme to promote social and economic reforms, both at the governmental and grassroots civil society level. while pushing for a fully independent investigation into the events that have already taken place, we must not lose sight of how those who took part in the unrest may yet be treated. it is clear that the authorities regard all participation as criminal. in this context, the commission is looking at a range of projects, including improving the management of prisons and treatment of detainees. the commission commends the cooperation between the authorities in kyrgyzstan – who have been faced with a very difficult humanitarian situation – and the united nations high commissioner for refugees. we therefore welcome the recent decision to relocate the asylum seekers, who currently number 475, away from the border region.
for the alde group i will speak as a member of the alde group and as chair of the central asia delegation. today i ask you, colleagues, to support a joint resolution strongly condemning the particularly brutal crackdown by uzbek president islam karimov in andijan. people who were shot at by the president's order simply wanted real democracy and real change. in fact, this is a repeat of tiananmen square and we must provide a fair and adequate assessment of the events. the central asian nations suffer from human rights violations, opposition activities and media restrictions. there is insufficient development of civil society in the region. uzbekistan is one of the most authoritarian countries in the region. it lacks an independent and fair judiciary, freedom of expression and religion, opposition parties and civil society are banned, freedom of the press is prohibited, and clashes and torture by militias are widespread. while the 'tulip revolution' in kyrgyzstan offers hope for a lasting democratic process, recent events in the city of andijan in uzbekistan and the reaction of the neighbouring central asian republics raise serious concerns. the events in andijan are an expression of the resistance of the uzbek people to the oppression they are experiencing. the european parliament cannot remain on the sidelines. knowing what has happened and what is happening is essential to taking appropriate action. we demand an independent investigation into the events. we must encourage america to abandon its military forces in uzbekistan, which are paid for with huge sums of money, which are essentially helping to strengthen the karimov regime. the priorities of our parliament must continue to be to avoid violence and bloodshed. we must work to strengthen civil society and freedom of speech.
for the alde group recent data reveal that public finances in the european union are the ultimate secret, because we know one number and then it turns out to be a completely different number. this is a problem that we have to address, whether we are talking about a small country or a large country. the commission's proposals are therefore very timely and necessary, but i can only express my regret that, on behalf of lithuania, which has always been very diligent in pursuing a strict fiscal policy, saving at the expense of public services in order to meet all the requirements of the european union, we have now learned that those requirements may not have been necessary. i'm saying this so you can understand the reaction of the new countries. i would like to stress that we cannot expect any decision we take or any audit mission to ensure the transparency of public finances, the reliability of data and the stability of the finances themselves. this is a matter for the member states alone. they can ensure that all provisions are actually implemented. i therefore regret that a code of conduct has not yet been submitted and that the provisions of this proposed revised stability and growth pact may not be respected. because why would they need to be revised at all if we're not going to follow them? in general, the revision of the stability and growth pact is not such a bad thing, because i can say from my own experience in this country that overly strict rules actually constrain growth and create some deflationary pressures. moreover, structural reforms cannot be implemented without additional costs, but it must be borne in mind that all this can only be achieved through coordinated economic policies, which are forward-looking and secure. there is no other way for the countries of the european union to achieve financial stability, other than to coordinate their economic policies, to coordinate their actions, as was said this morning in the context of the constitution.
like many of my colleagues, i would like to begin by thanking the prime minister of luxembourg, jean-claude juncker, the president of the european council and his colleagues. i was waiting for the outcome of the european council in vilnius, lithuania, and i watched mr juncker's press conference on television after midnight on thursday. he looked very well, and the emotions were not at all damaged, but some of the others, to put it mildly, did not look so well. i am confident that the new member states, as well as lithuania, will be able to appreciate both the last six months of the presidency and mr juncker's personal contribution. luxembourg has clearly demonstrated that the widely known description of this state as 'small but significant' is correct. what would the european union be without you? history, past experience clearly shows that europe, the european union, has always been strong when it has put, not national interests, the demonstration of the power of states, the personal ambitions of some political leaders, but common values, solidarity, without abandoning the internal competition that is the engine of all progress, first. i think that, in the light of the outcome of the european council and the french and dutch 'no' to the treaty establishing the european union, and in the light of the specific features of the united kingdom's vision of the european union, we should also analyse the causes of the present situation with particular care. ratification of the constitutional treaty should not be an end in itself, and the presence of a large number of agitators and interpreters, no matter how highly qualified, will not help in this situation. the europe of the citizens we declare must become a reality, and that means listening to the voice of the citizens to avoid further disappointments. analysis shows that the constitutional treaty of the european union was largely rejected in france and the netherlands, because of the open door for turkey to become a member of the european union in the future. we also see that the most sensitive issues today are employment, job creation, increasing economic competitiveness and the further expansion of the european union. this is what our dialogue with the citizens of the european union should be about.
mr president, i wish to express my sincere gratitude – and, i am sure, all european parliamentarians from the baltic states will join me – for your recent statement commemorating the 65th anniversary of the occupation of our three sovereign states in 1940 by the totalitarian soviet union. the truth about that should be made known and remembered by everybody, and even recognised by some with a feeling of apology, as it was such a bloody and long-lasting tragedy. the memory calls for justice. therefore, i am sure that a new special nuremberg process or a special hague tribunal will also be established for soviet war crimes and their perpetrators. let many among us here share this hope: the hope in the future of having a russia of shared values.
both reporters should be thanked for their reports. although they may seem a little different at first glance, they have one thing in common: both the monetary policy of the european central bank and the euro are now under heavy criticism. obviously, while the economic assessment of these phenomena, i.e. monetary policy and the euro, may vary, we can probably admit that the communication strategy on the single monetary policy and the euro is indeed a failure. it should be concluded that this communication strategy should be reviewed, and this is particularly relevant now that such a debate on the future of europe is taking place. based on lithuania's experience, i can say that when you introduce any economic reform, it has a different impact on different groups of the population. so when we talk about european monetary policy, the euro, we have to consider that the impact of this or that decision on very different groups of the population, so i very much welcome the intention of the european central bank to make an impact analysis of the population groups. and then, not just the positive aspects, but also the short-term problems of implementing economic reforms, because there is no economic solution that is a miracle cure that will have immediate positive results. so, in informing the public, we need to inform them about problems, say, price increases in new member states, because there is certainly a convergence of prices between old and new countries. third, the information campaign and communication strategy must be ongoing. short-term campaigns are not effective. we will be affected by the decisions of the european central bank on a daily basis and we will use the euro on a daily basis, and all these problems will be with us all the time, so the interpretation process must be continuous and active.
the draft resolution is of particular importance for those european union countries which will soon join the euro area. the second mechanism is currently open to lithuania, estonia, slovenia and denmark. the first three countries have a good chance of adopting the euro in 2007 and enjoying the benefits it offers. lithuania and estonia are the only eu member states whose currencies have been pegged to the euro for several years. the accession to the single currency should therefore be smooth. however, it may be damaging to hear that the introduction of the euro in 12 countries has led to a sharp price jump. the resolution stresses the importance of a timely and accurate information campaign, and the study of the experience of the countries that have adopted the euro, both positive and negative. the twinning model can be of great help, but with 1.5 years to go before the euro is introduced, the three countries mentioned above do not yet have partners in this twinning programme. it is worth encouraging these countries to find partners as soon as possible and to act with even greater energy.
the humanities university in minsk, which was closed a year ago, has recently been re-established in vilnius. historically, european universities have been the forerunners of the european union. the roots of the real european union lie in the universities, and the freedom of thought is the basis of universities. that is why in the resolution which we are presenting to parliament on behalf of the union for a europe of the peoples, we welcome the revival of the european university of the humanities. we also welcome the efforts of the republic of lithuania to develop democracy, freedom of thought and human rights through education, preparing a new country of the mature generation, a neighbour of the european union, but still under the grip of dictatorship. we therefore appeal to the european commission, to the member states of the european union and urge them to follow the example of donors in europe and the united states and support this university in every way possible. we are convinced that this will be a real extension of the area of freedom, where freedom, solidarity and cooperation among peoples serve human dignity - our own dignity.
mr president, perhaps this policy under consideration is the best one at the given time. i am going to start by mentioning the political background. our policy is based on the ‘one china’ principle, but this principle has deprived the people of taiwan of another fundamental principle: that of self-determination. i might understand the pragmatism of the eu, but it should not be selective, as we have never spoken of a ‘one korea’ principle, for example. my next comment is about the compatibility of china and taiwan. i can hardly imagine two states under one political umbrella if they have such incompatible political systems. i see two options: we must either revise the one-china principle and adjust our policy in respect of it, or wait for an indefinite amount of time until china per se becomes a democratic state with a multi-party system, a rule of law and respect for human rights. the proposed policy stems from the second option, but it is by no means the best choice.
for the alde group this important financial issue has fallen into the hands of women in parliament, but women are usually careful and good at it. i hope we can start to tackle this problem because it is one of the economic policy solutions of the european union that has been discussed for a very long time and the results are still not seen. this puts the european union's financial markets behind the rest of the world. we need to make some real progress. what is needed to make such progress? first, i want to address the market participants. they must make concessions to one another and start looking for common ground and compromises. i fully understand that it is difficult to abandon the positions already reached, the systems already established at national level, because this involves new costs and problems and uncertainties for the future. we in parliament must therefore reach a consensus and clearly indicate to the market the guidelines for the development of the clearing and settlement system in order to ensure and clarify the prospects. we must ensure that the issues of price structure transparency, equal and fair access rights for all participants and equal conditions of competition in the market are addressed. these are the three main segments. if we can reach an agreement - and i hope we can - then national governments will also be obliged to act more decisively to remove the obstacles identified in the giovannini reports. i doubt that any national government can fail to listen to the wishes of its financial sector. after all, they are the major creditors of governments. i would also like to ask the commission: you now have sufficient working groups, technical capacity to ensure that all technical decisions, legislation or amendments to it are adopted as quickly as possible. why the rush? the european union market has a great opportunity to become a world leader. many experts are probably aware that the us market is subject to uncertainty as a result of the regulatory regime chosen. asian countries are still shaping their markets. we have a great opportunity to break through. this is an opportunity we should not pass up. so our compromise today and our concessions to each other can bring many material benefits and recognition as separate, powerful forces in the world.
the textile sector is the first eu industrial sector to be hit hard by the changes in the changing global market. new market entrants appeared on the textile market, in particular china and india. it is sad to hear european commission officials say that when china negotiated its accession to the wto ten years ago, no one could have imagined such a development. the textile and other problem sectors show that this is not the failure of one european country to manage its economy. this is a problem for many industrial sectors throughout europe. the european union, as an industrial policy, is essentially a guide to growth and employment. there is no indication of sectors which are recommended to be developed, this is a matter for the member states. the rapporteur proposes to concentrate textile production in the mediterranean as a counterbalance to china. but that's not going to stop china, and it's going to open up new competitors for europe. an analysis of the eu industrial sectors and long-term development forecasts are necessary, taking into account the emergence of new market entrants and the redistribution of markets. i therefore invite the european parliament to call on the european commission to come up with proposals for industrial policy change, to provide long-term industrial development forecasts for the period 2030-2050, to provide industry with recommendations on sectors of the future in which investment should start now. if we do not take such measures, the chinese tsunami will devastate the entire european industry.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the political situation and independence of the media in belarus. i am grateful to colleagues from different political parties and different political groups who supported this resolution. i look forward to the commission’s concrete actions to provide, as soon as possible, the necessary assistance to begin the broadcasting of independent radio programmes to belarus from abroad – from lithuania, poland and, possibly, ukraine.
in writing. the 'report on textiles and clothing after 2005' is a very important document for my country, lithuania, where textiles and clothing has a long tradition and the number of people employed is remarkable, so i voted to call on the commission and the council to take serious steps and implement effective measures to meet the challenges the eu textile and clothing industry faces in 2005. bearing in mind that the union's textile and clothing industry is made up of small and medium-sized companies and is highly labour-intensive, and that member states cannot adopt measures independently because they have delegated trade policy to the exclusive competence of the eu, i voted to protect european consumers from the counterfeiting of textile and clothing products, and to introduce mandatory origin and company name labelling for products in this sector, and that any enterprise wishing to export to the eu must declare its compliance with international social and environmental rights and standards. we should also guarantee our support for textile and clothing companies using opportunities offered by the eu structural funds after 2005 in compliance with the lisbon strategy goals.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you, mr president, mr parliament and mr minister, for the opportunity to respond today to the first council proposal, and precisely because we had a good opportunity to exchange views with parliament and the council after the first reading in june, and with the representatives of the main political groups in the european parliament. i would indeed like to agree with most of those who have said that the 2006 budget is a special budget, and precisely because it is the last budget of this financial perspective, which the commission has prepared with the aim of taking very realistic and realistic account of the basic needs of the european union, of completing the main projects and of preparing for the new financial period. in response to this proposal from the council, i would therefore like to assess immediately the three areas which the commission considers to be the most problematic. having first outlined the importance of the european budget for 2006, i would like to focus on three main areas in which the commission believes that the major concerns need to be addressed and resolved by all three institutions, including the budgetary authorities in particular. our main concern is with heading 3, where we think that the reductions proposed by the council are not justified and cannot be supported by the commission, mainly because the requirements and amounts proposed by the commission were based on projects already committed and ongoing. we think that such reductions will create many problems for the payment of bills for ongoing projects in the community in 2006 for the member states. moreover, half of the proposed reductions in payment appropriations are concentrated on activities which represent only about 10% of the total budget. surprisingly, no justification is given for concentrating the reductions in this way. in heading 4 the reductions proposed by the council will create at least three serious problems. first of all, the reduction goes against the decisions taken by the general affairs council itself, especially regarding post-tsunami reconstruction in asia and the renewed commitment to the millennium development goals. secondly, in relation to recent developments in the world, we expect, and have already had indications, that europe will be asked to assist in the disengagement process from gaza. the third problem concerns the negotiations on the fisheries agreement with morocco. all these three elements make it more difficult to accept or look favourably upon the council's proposal. the question of heading 5 was raised and discussed at length at the 15 july meeting between the three institutions. as promised, on friday i sent to both budgetary authorities additional information on the progress of recruitment from eu-10 and eu-15. by 31 july this year, 90% of the recruitment targets from new member states had been fulfilled. we believe that the proposed reductions forwarded by the council are the result of a misunderstanding between us and may well derive from a technical error. we very much expect that, before second reading, we will be able to engage in consultations with the council in particular in an effort to resolve this issue. the proposal on the table today means that for 2006 not only will we be unable to recruit from eu-10, but we will be stopping all recruitment in the commission, as well as lacking the resources to pay salaries for existing staff levels. in view of all this and in response to mrs pittella's request that the commission take as forceful an approach as possible to this proposal, let me say that we are committed to resolving all possible questions in cooperation with the budgetary authorities. i call on all sides to show goodwill in this endeavour, as it will be greatly needed if we are to finalize the deal for this year.
for the ppe-de group mr minister, commissioner, on 15 july 2005 i attended the conciliation meeting of the european parliament and the council in brussels, before which the european parliament adopted a resolution clearly stating the position and priorities of this institution of the european union in the formulation of the 2006 budget. despite the criticism of the european parliament at the time that the appropriations for commitments and payments were insufficient, on 15 july 2005 the economic and financial affairs council decided to propose a reduction of eur 1,1 billion in the appropriations for payments and eur 478 million in the appropriations for commitments compared to the preliminary draft budget. this proposal demonstrates, in my view, that the council simply ignores the real needs and commitments of the european union. i would remind you that the european parliament resolution referred to above states that the preliminary draft budget submitted by the commission is inadequate because it does not reflect the political ambitions agreed, in particular in relation to the lisbon strategy and the need to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. we also called on the council to engage in a serious and constructive dialogue with the european parliament on how to implement these political commitments. it is impossible to achieve our policy objectives of economic growth, competitiveness without more money for research, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for about 90% of all businesses in the european union. we in the european parliament have previously highlighted and reiterate the importance of the external aid programmes which could not be foreseen in the current financial perspective, such as those relating to afghanistan and iraq, and the recently proposed post-tsunami recovery programme. in the preliminary draft budget, heading iv 'external actions' was already underfunded in our view. the council proposes to reduce the appropriations currently available to it even further. i would also like to point out the worrying cuts associated with certain geographical and thematic programmes and i believe that budgetary amounts and resources need to be reconciled. i would also like to stress the importance of the european neighbourhood policy, including support for democratic change in neighbouring countries. i must stress once again that the accession of 10 new member states to the european union in 2004, the beginning of a long process of cohesion, is a new challenge for cohesion policy, which means that cohesion policy should pay greater attention to the regions in order to avoid possible future conflicts between the new member states of cohesion and the less developed regions of the 15 member states of the european union. in conclusion, i would once again ask the council to follow the priorities set by the european parliament in drawing up the 2006 budget, believing that it is unnecessary to recall that the european parliament is the only institution of the european union directly elected by its citizens, which has a mission under european union law both in drawing up and implementing the budget of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. for this commission, communicating with the citizens of the european union has been a key strategic objective from the start. this is why we have been engaged in a lengthy and comprehensive analysis and consultation within the commission itself and in an equally comprehensive dialogue on this issue with many of the actors concerned, and parliament in particular. as a result, the commission has developed a new approach to european communication based on three strategic principles that all clearly put the citizens at the heart of european policies. firstly, the commission will further improve its efforts to listen to citizens and to take their views and concerns into account. secondly, it will better communicate how its policies affect their everyday lives – an aspect mentioned by the honourable members. thirdly, it will go local and adapt its communication to the different citizens' sensitivities according to their country, region, language, and their age, sex, profession, etc. on 20 july 2005, this materialised in the adoption of the internal action plan to improve the way in which the commission communicates europe. the aim of this plan is to improve the organisation of the commission's ongoing communication work on the basis of the three principles. concretely, this plan gives details of 50 very pragmatic actions – most of them to be carried out immediately, i.e. within the next 12 months – to make the commission's existing comprehensive communication work more professional and effective. for example, the commission will make better use of those communication tools that most people prefer – i.e. the audiovisual media and the internet – and will do this in the language they understand. it will provide its staff with specific training in communication skills and recruit communication specialists as well. it will integrate communication aspects into policy formulation right from the beginning and it will reinforce the commission's representation offices in the member states and help them better focus on acting as our ears and spokesmen on the ground by simplifying and reducing their administrative burden. however, communicating with european citizens is a task that goes far beyond the commission's remit. therefore, the next step will be the white paper on communication, which is meant to engage all stakeholders and all institutions. in this paper, the commission will set out the policy vision and the initiatives that it thinks have to be undertaken in the medium and long term, in cooperation with other actors. among these actors are the european institutions: parliament, in particular, has an essential role to play. both the commission and parliament already have long-standing good cooperation in this area, which has gained even further momentum in the last months. however, if we really want to achieve substantial change in european communications, it is true that it is even more urgent to enhance cooperation and coordination with the member states in order to set up a strong partnership with their governments and regional authorities, civil society and the media as well. the white paper will address the role of all the stakeholders and launch a broad consultation procedure in order to give them the possibility to define and organise their input. based on the results of this dialogue, common actions will be defined. good communication is essential for a healthy democracy. however, the public debate on europe in the first half of this year has shown that at present there is no agreement or understanding about what europe is for and where it is heading. this is why we need not only a new approach to communication, but also a good discussion about the future of europe as a whole. accordingly, the commission is developing a plan d – as i have called it – where d stands for dialogue, debate and democracy. this is also in line with the declaration by the heads of state and government at the june european council stating the need for a reflection pause to organise a broad debate. in order to reconnect europe's citizens with the european project, they and their organisations must be given a stronger voice, and we, the decision-makers, must develop the ability to better listen to their concerns and expectations. the commission's role in this process would be that of a facilitator, providing support to member states and civil societies to make this plan d happen. however, it is essential to avoid as much as possible a top-down approach, as democracies are by definition bottom-up. again, this is not something that the commission or, for that matter, the eu institutions can do alone. if we are to succeed in creating a more citizen-driven europe that can meet the challenges of today's globalising world, europe's policies must also be solidly anchored in the governments and parliaments of each member state.
thank you for your good and detailed reply and i would like to add to the honourable commissioner that perhaps the list of works could be supplemented by your so-called bad personal diary, which i read on the internet and am a fan of. now the question is, according to public opinion researchers, when unpopular governments actively champion a good idea, the effect is, as a rule, the opposite: people don't support the idea. i would like to ask you, half in jest, but half in earnest, whether it would not be worth recommending that unpopular governments refrain from promoting, say, the idea of a more united europe.
i congratulate the rapporteurs on a carefully prepared document which i believe will help to protect our children from harmful information that is disseminated through the media, including the internet. i would like to emphasise that the internet, and in particular internet cafes, is the least controlled means of information. according to a gallup poll in lithuania, 63% of lithuanian children surf the internet, 33% of them are between 7 and 10 years old, and only about half of parents are interested in how their child does it. indeed, 90 percent of those surveyed believe that pornography is the most harmful internet product for children, with 54 percent asserting that violent content is. thirty-six percent attribute it to pedophilia and 13 percent to religious sects. i agree with the amendments and proposals set out in the document. the lithuanian authorities are dealing successfully with the websites being developed in lithuania and we have no problems here. but we have a lot of serious problems with information coming in from outside -- it's virtually uncontrolled. i would therefore suggest that, once this document of a recommendatory nature has been adopted, the commission could also prepare a corresponding directive. the psychological well-being of children must not be harmed by any media and this is the job and responsibility of all of us, including the commission.
for the ppe-de group today we are discussing a truly important issue that affects every family, every one of us. the protection of minors, our children and grandchildren from pornography, violence and harmful material on the internet promoting drug addiction is undoubtedly an important issue that requires urgent action. it is also an international problem, extending far beyond the borders of the european union, requiring the concerted efforts of the entire international community. the latest statistics say that children spend more time browsing the internet than watching television. furthermore, it is important to remember that there are 260 million pornographic web sites, and how many more teach people how to commit crimes, how to make drugs, and so forth? we have noticed in lithuania that websites promoting drug addiction are registered on european servers and are transferred to america as soon as they are threatened, which makes our task more difficult. our common practice shows that self-regulation by internet service providers is no longer sufficient to ensure the protection of minors from harmful content online. if we have the technical means, it is necessary to legislate an obligation for internet service providers to install a filter to protect against malicious websites along with their internet service and to legislate an obligation to filter such websites on their own servers. i am convinced that it is also necessary to harmonise the laws of the member states of the european union in the field of the protection of minors against the harmful effects of the internet. i welcome the proposal to offer courses in schools to children and their parents on the potential dangers of the internet and how to protect themselves against them, and to set up a freephone service where people can call to report sites harmful to children. the proposal to create a children's domain, where the content of registered websites would be monitored on a permanent basis by an independent body, should also be justified. in conclusion, i am convinced that in order to avoid more serious problems in the future, we must legalise zero tolerance in the european union for harmful material on the internet, particularly for minors and children, which promotes pornography, violence and drug addiction.
for the alde group i would like to welcome the seemingly technical document presented and to acknowledge the excellent work of mr becksey, because it is essential to simplify the vat administration system, not only to encourage business development, but also to help coordinate the public financial policies of the member states, which in turn will increase mutual understanding and enhance europe's role as a single entity in the international market. i am very sorry that all these important issues, the previous report, our report and others which concern paediatrics, are being discussed so late at night, because what we are discussing concerns the lives of every single person, and people are often unaware of these issues and then we see that everyone is asking what parliament is doing. the tax administration will have a positive impact on small and medium-sized businesses by helping them to expand their activities outside the country. this is very important for the companies in my country, the transport companies, who cannot agree with the other country to have their vat refunds paid on time. however, in the light of the positive assessment of the proposals, i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to some of the proposals, amendments, which are being put forward by parliament and our group, the liberal and democratic group. first of all, we must allow companies to draw up documents in the language of the country in which they are registered, because it is difficult to imagine that small companies can draw up documents in 21 languages, as we do in parliament. another thing is to help small and medium-sized enterprises avoid currency fluctuation losses because not all countries have a currency and while vat is being refunded, the exchange rate can change during that time and for small enterprises this is a big loss. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is very important that this version of the directive is implemented better than the old version and i ask the commission to follow strictly the procedure for its implementation.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, since the first tourist arrivals in may last year, the number of tourists to the 10 new countries of the european union has increased dramatically. these are additional revenues to the budget, the opportunity to get to know countries that are less well known on the tourist map, but also new challenges. in our countries, we have the opportunity to learn from the experience of the old eu members without repeating their mistakes. the increase in tourist flows to central europe should ease the pressure on those eu regions that are suffering from the influx of arrivals. the tourism infrastructure in the new countries is still lagging behind the old ones, while attracting profitable investments. in the countries of central europe, including lithuania, we have a lot of untouched nature. sustainable tourism must protect it as well as the landscape, the village and the urban fabric. we have a particularly promising rural, cultural, sports and health tourism. these countries are attractive to young people because of their low cost, although the "old" are also coming to us because of the healthy climate. tourists are fascinated by history, but the painful, instructive, and even complex events of recent decades should not be reduced to a disneyland-style, kitsch-style narrative. the revision of the sixth tax directive, with the introduction of incentives for inbound tourism, would be important for all eu member states, and especially for the new ones. by reforming the tourism industry, the eu is promoting economic growth and mutual understanding. this will make a significant contribution to breaking down the dividing lines that have divided europe towards total extinction.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, as a fellow scot, along with the questioner, i will resist the temptation to discuss the closeness of relations between the scottish people and the french people over many centuries and instead direct myself to the question that was asked. i will certainly be happy to pass on to the commission the point of view that was communicated to me this afternoon in relation to the merits of a database. in my discussions previously with, for example, the indian trade minister, the urgency and importance of progress on mode 4 as part of the wider doha development round was impressed upon me. the question is whether the european union's institutions are best placed to be aware of the constantly changing commercial opportunities available in a rapidly changing commercial sector. none the less, i am happy to give the undertaking that i will pass on that suggestion to the commission.
president-in-office of the council. the presidency is waiting for the commission to introduce its proposals for a framework decision laying down data protection rules in the third pillar. as soon as the proposal is formally introduced, the presidency will ensure that it is discussed by the appropriate council body and forwarded to the european parliament in accordance with article 39 of the treaty on european union.
president-in-office of the council. i should like to thank the member for the characteristic grace with which he has directed his question towards me. it is not a question of being two-faced, but simply – and i hope he appreciates this point as a passionate european – a due regard for my position today, which is not to speak for the uk government, but instead to represent the position of the presidency of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. i have been questioned on two substantive points in supplementary questions. the first supplementary question asked, 'have i read the question?' i can assure you i have, and it specifically and explicitly states, 'does the uk government strongly support the need for an eu third pillar data protection framework?' it goes on to elaborate on that point. i merely reiterate for clarity that my responsibilities today are to discharge my duties on behalf of the presidency, rather than to articulate the national position of the united kingdom government. it would be a disservice to this parliament were i to do anything else. however, i think anybody who was present in this chamber this morning and had the opportunity to hear the uk home secretary speak, again on behalf of the presidency, in relation to data protection measures, would have a very clear understanding as to the importance that we attach to the service that can be provided by data protection measures, and the need for a transnational approach to tackling not just issues such as people trafficking and organised crime, but also the pressing threat of international terrorism.
president-in-office of the council. on 23 june 2005, the united kingdom's prime minister stated in this chamber that, in the view of the presidency, there is a strong case for increased council transparency, but this is something we need to discuss with all member states. as the presidency, we have not made any formal proposals at this time. we are still considering measures and will be consulting with partners in due course, because, as i am sure the honourable members will appreciate, this is not a matter that is entirely in the gift of the presidency.
president-in-office of the council. i thank the questioner for his gracious remarks on my initial answer. let me elaborate on that answer. as i said, the position of the british government was stated by our prime minister and the strong case for increased council transparency is clearly recognised. however, there is further work to be done, not least because a balance has to be struck between what i think are understandable objectives and desires on the part of the british government and several other member states and due regard for the decision by the european council in june that a pause for reflection was necessary, following the decisive decisions in the dutch and french referenda. as i said, i would not seek to close down the discussion that will no doubt take place in light of the correspondence in the london times yesterday. i merely offer what i think should be regarded as a holding reply while consideration is given as to the best way forward.
president-in-office, i appreciate that this issue is very sensitive and i understand very well that the decision must be taken unanimously. however, what is the position of other member states in the council? perhaps some of them would agree that, in some special cases, it would be possible to meet in public.
member of the commission. thank you for that information. in this context i should like to say two things. firstly, the uk is a source of best practices in europe when it comes to regional policy and the way funds are used. i have visited many science and business parks. you have wonderful partnerships at local level and achieve unbelievably good results, very often from a tiny catalytic contribution coming from the structural funds. wherever you go – not only in scotland, wales or cornwall, but also in other regions of the uk – you can find excellent examples of this type of best practice. we are also using the uk experience to help us to become more innovative in terms of financial engineering, and the british experience will also be widely used for the events which we will have with the british next month on financial engineering. secondly, we all need a decision on the budget, but it should be appreciated that in the meantime we can work together with the british on all other avenues – regulations, programming and also on those innovative proposals for initiatives for the future of the funds. however, it would be good to have the decision on the budget under the british presidency.
commissioner, your colleague commissioner grybauskaitė stated publicly that if the eu fails to reach an agreement on the financial perspective this year during the british presidency, then the new member states of the eu would be unable to receive the full level of assistance from the structural and cohesion funds as planned. do you agree with that prediction?
for the alde group this is not the first time that china has been brought up in parliament this year. in discussing the state of textiles after 2005, commissioner luis michel took the view that the reasons for the decline and possible collapse of the textile sector and, apparently, of other european industrial sectors are the failure of countries to manage their own economies. they were unable to move their production to low-wage countries. but no one is saying what we can offer to the citizens of our countries where we are elected. where will they work when we move all industry out of europe? the commission's report on the impact of trade with china on the economies of the eu member states is virtually inadequate. the report focuses on developing countries, which are suffering from china's expansion into global textile markets. even the whole chapter of the report is devoted to china's social problems, wage increases, welfare, which is basically an internal matter of the country. in addition, the eu itself does not have a common social policy, each country manages its own wages, which vary across the eu and in some cases are very low, with citizens living below the poverty line. what should we do as the european union to find the right response to the challenges of the global economy? i invite the commission to assess the impact of the application of wto rules on eu member states, especially new ones, to review foreign trade policy, to take active measures and preventive actions to eliminate the negative consequences for eu industry in the textile, footwear, furniture, electronics, automotive and other sectors. the main objective is to analyse the state of eu industry, develop long-term forecasts for the development of eu industry up to 2030-2050, identify areas where eu producers could be competitive, and provide industry with recommendations on future sectors in which to start investing now. i urge you to look after your own people, because it seems that we cannot expect anything to create jobs for us, to increase economic competitiveness, to maintain social welfare.
in welcoming this initiative and this report, i would like to make a few comments which i believe are important. the trends of recent years are deeply troubling and do not bode well. the trade deficit is growing catastrophically, the range of goods from china is growing, as is the relocation of production and the closure of factories in the european union itself. and international companies play a significant role in this. if we don't have the right mechanisms to control those processes, we're going to have very, very sad consequences. companies in all eu countries, including lithuania, are suffering from unfair competition from chinese companies. our businesses are forced to comply with the eu's high standards of labour, social protection and environmental protection, while competing with chinese manufacturers who do not. on the contrary, workers work in slave-like conditions, practically for free. the european union must ensure that international agreements enshrine mandatory compliance with labour standards, occupational safety, social protection and the environment. the rules on intellectual property protection and certification of conformity of quality and origin should also be strengthened, as should the simplified procedure for bringing anti-dumping proceedings. the european commission must ensure that companies are only allowed to bring goods into the eu when the european commission has certified that the companies comply with such standards. russia does this by allowing goods from the european union to enter its territory.
madam president, the statements by the council and the commission, as well parliament’s resolution, reflect another failure of the union’s policies. the joint resolution carefully presents a line of justifications for iran’s nuclear programme. at the same time, the well-known ultimate goal of the iranian government is already not a distant one. we must state clearly that there is a real danger as the terrorist and terrorist-supporting fundamentalist state is going to obtain nuclear weaponry by ‘confusing and deceiving stupid europeans’, as it was openly described in july 2005 by the head of iran’s nuclear programme. if the european parliament marginalises this great danger to international peace and to the future of democracies, this parliament will marginalise itself. paradoxically, the only effective opposition to the rulers of the terrorist state was put on the terrorist list and persecuted in europe. if the mujahideen movement were taken off this list, it would be a real and sound european policy. i now turn to the resolution. special pro-iranian and american warning points, as stated in amendment 12, if adopted, would be politically unwise and counter-productive. two amendments – the first and fourth – introduce the clause about the security council, which is to be supported. possible opposition to it should be explained as a service for russia, in order to prevent it from an unpleasant veto in the security council. i do not understand why the european union should lose face in order to save russia’s. in the event of such a veto, we would realise how strategically reliable our alleged strategic partner really is. if amendment 1 is rejected, the whole resolution has no sense but prevailing surrender.
i'm going to talk about kazakhstan. although not in europe, the country is also of great importance to the european union because of its oil reserves. cooperation between the european union and kazakhstan in this area could significantly reduce the eu's dependence on russian oil and gas supplies, as the dominance of one country in any market is unsettling and undesirable. on december 4 of this year, presidential elections are scheduled to be held in kazakhstan. it also intends to assume the osce chairmanship in 2009. however, international human rights organisations report on violations of human rights and freedoms, on laws that do not meet the standards of a democratic state, such as the law on political parties. i appealed to the leadership of the european parliament to send a delegation of the european parliament to observe the elections and to ensure that these elections, and their compliance with international requirements and standards, serve as a litmus test not only for the outcome of these presidential elections but also for the member states of the european union in deciding whether to support kazakhstan in its bid to take over the osce presidency. thank you. thank you.
africa accounts for less than 2 percent of world trade today than it did 50 years ago. are there unfair trade deals, or is africa out of business? poverty in africa has doubled in the last 20 years. africa is not able to take advantage of the trade liberalisation opportunities we have. the eu and its member states provide budgetary and european development fund assistance to developing countries. the european development fund alone is worth €13.5 billion. what is the effectiveness of aid if it increases poverty rather than reduces it? one of the key ways of fighting poverty is to invest in developing countries' economies to build and develop them. where are donor countries investing when trade is declining and poverty is increasing? i invite the european commission to assess the effectiveness of aid to developing countries, and the member states which have historical interests in africa and elsewhere to invest and support those countries by building up their economies, investing in sectors that create jobs, using their natural and human resources rationally and fairly, trading fairly. let's not only support africa financially, but let's give it the opportunity to contribute to its own future and prosperity.
for the ppe-de group before becoming a member of the european parliament, i was a lecturer and dean of the faculty at one of the most dynamic universities in lithuania, which was founded after lithuania regained its independence. lithuanian and all eu member states' universities have a special responsibility and mission in implementing the lisbon strategy and in making the eu a knowledge-based and dynamic economy. to fulfil its mission and meet citizens' expectations, eu universities need to do more than just set standards for the quality of their studies and develop research. another equally important task is educating the public to be prepared to face the challenges of today, because europeans live in a complex social and political world, they seek to plan their own lives, they have to live and work in a cultural, ethnic and linguistic diversity, and they are expected to participate actively in public life and decision-making. the citizens of our countries, the societies, must realize that the idea that a university degree is enough for life is a concept of the past century. lifelong learning must become a key principle, and we will need to pursue this vision through the implementation of national programmes, the active involvement of member states and, where appropriate, the support and contribution of communities. one of the objectives of lifelong learning is to increase employability. it is also linked to innovation, economic modernisation and increased competitiveness, which in turn increases the number of jobs and changes the quality of work. this requires a change and adaptation of education and training approaches and it is essential that lifelong learning becomes inclusive, i.e. that formal, non-formal and informal learning complement each other, cooperate in a qualitative way to build communities of good experience. i would also point out that the success of the lisbon objectives for lifelong learning depends very much on their sound and consistent funding, and this should be the responsibility of the eu as a whole and of national governments. this is the objective which we must prioritise and find sufficient funding for in the new financial perspective.
on behalf of the uen group welcoming the report by mrs novak, i would draw your attention to amendment no 25, which proposes to delete the part of the commission text which calls for 'the recognition of the assessments made by all the quality assurance and accreditation agencies listed in the european register as the basis for decisions on the licensing or funding of higher education institutions'. i think this commission proposal is justified and very important, because it allows the assessment of the quality of higher education to be linked to the funding of the institution. this is particularly relevant for the new countries of the european union, including my country, lithuania. if we reject this commission proposal, we will lose a very important european instrument to ensure the quality of higher education throughout the european union, in all its countries, and waste money.
mr president, the issue of the european border with russia is not peripheral or marginal; on the contrary, it is absolutely fundamental. estonia is a full member of the eu. this concerns the union’s external border. what is at stake today, an alternative to our values, i.e. the commission’s appeasement of russia or the reliability of the eu for the new members. the danger that the eu could lose reliability was noticed at the london summit, where the russian-estonian border issue, which is the subject of the commitments between russia and the eu, became marginalised. the two governments were suggested to sort the problem out and the commission would stand aside and wash its hands of the matter. among these two was one big government and one small. the big and angry one dared to ask the commission to take russia’s side and bring smaller new member states to order. they became disobedient to russia, and that was bad. this was precisely the position expressed recently by the russian ambassador, mr chizhov, in brussels. our parliament, as a more independent and conscious body, should debate this matter and issue a resolution.
on behalf of the uen group i welcome the commission's efforts to integrate and simplify european education programmes and would like to draw your attention to the amendments proposed by our rapporteur, doris pack, which not only underline the need to ensure the continuity of lifelong learning but also the necessary increase in funding for european programmes, including erasmus. this would take account in particular of the expanded and continuously increasing number of participants in this programme. the proposal to increase the average amount of grants from eur 210 to eur 300 for the programme ending in 2007 cannot be disapproved either. the proposal to make learning at least two languages as favourable as possible in view of the changing national linguistic diversity in the eu cannot be accepted. i also hope that my amendment, which would include the european humanitarian university, which was expelled from belarus but was re-established in vilnius two weeks ago, among the institutions receiving priority funding, will be taken into account. the union for a europe of nations supports the doris pack report.
on behalf of the uen group the development of tolerance for other cultures and other languages among young people is one of the very important focuses of these renewed programmes, and of my colleague gröner. it is clear that the promotion and development of a culture of tolerance among young people and the promotion of cooperation between young people of different nationalities are important for the success of the european union as a whole. it is also clear that education, the development of the eyes of young people, plays a special role in the process of building a culture of tolerance. the philosophy of the programme should therefore be guided by the priority of education, access to education irrespective of race, nationality, gender, religion or social status. it is essential that this programme is made available to the young people of the neighbouring countries of the european union, in particular those countries where autocratic regimes are entrenched. in this respect, the experience of lithuanian youth, especially in academia, in working with belarusian youth can be a good example for the whole of europe. this is one of the most effective instruments for the development of democracy and the dissemination of european values. the union for a europe of nations supports this report.
benjamin disraeli said that almost everything that is great is created in youth. it is an exaggeration, but the focus on young people, the creators of europe's future, can never be too much. the youth programme 2007-2013 is a step forward compared to the current programme. the programme is particularly welcome to include the eu's new neighbours: russia, ukraine, belarus, moldova, the north caucasus. this will allow young people to learn about european values and initiatives and to establish contacts with partners from eu countries. it is very good that the programme will involve not only young people aged 15-25 but also those aged 13-30. simplified rules for project submission mean that we will receive more initiatives, that a significantly greater number of young people will benefit from the programme. but it also requires more funding. lithuanian youth are actively involved in the activities of the current programme. the implementation of the new programme is expected to further promote mutual knowledge and understanding, tolerance and reduce social exclusion. thank you. thank you.
it is symbolic that this week, when european leaders are discussing the challenges of globalisation, parliament is discussing the eu's culture programme. the cultural sector is a key sector in the european union's economy. we can't compete on labor costs, on cheapness. this is why it is so important for us to foster creativity and why it needs to be given more importance in the cultural programme. i certainly do not agree with the european commission's view that the more people who participate in the culture programme, the more visible it is. it's more pompous, and we have to look at the originality of the culture. that originality is certainly not achieved by the number of operators, which should not be increased. another important aspect relevant to the development of culture and creativity is the multilateral exchange process. of course, we are very interested in preserving cultural heritage, but the cultural programme must have a clear focus on the future, on the creative generation of new ideas. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group the content of this programme and the presentation by my colleague ruth hieronymi are fully in line with the spirit of the united nations convention on culture. it is realistic to expect that the implementation of this programme will achieve its crucial objective of strengthening the european audiovisual sector in the very difficult and hitherto losing competitive battle against the low-quality, very poor content production that today still overshadows european production. the greatest damage from such low-quality cultural production is done to the new, including small, countries of the european union. i can say the same for my country, lithuania. such production not only destroys the consciousness of culture, but also forms the need for a culture of inferiority, requiring no intellectual effort. i therefore ask you to support my proposal, which takes account of the specific needs of the new, small countries of the european union and their societies, and which supports, through specific grants, countries which lack the capacity to produce audiovisual works of sufficient quality. thank you. thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i can tell you - as i have already indicated - that on the one hand energy policy plays a very important role and we are at least open to further conferences. i cannot say whether my colleague mr piebalgs is planning another conference in the near future, but i can say that we are following these matters very closely and they are of course becoming more and more important. that is to say, this issue will be with us throughout the entire term of this commission. as far as minorities are concerned, we are working relatively closely with the osce, which is dealing with these issues. i myself, as chairman of the osce in 2000, took these matters very seriously. the european union will continue to take all these issues into account in the action plans which are still to be negotiated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, i have a question about georgia. in this country, there have been significant developments in recent years, namely democratic reforms, economic reforms and human rights reforms. georgia is known to have particular aspirations in relation to the eu. how do you assess the chances of this country joining the eu in the future?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. economic migration has played a particularly important role in the economic growth of host countries for centuries. the green paper on the european union's approach to managing economic migration is therefore of unquestionable importance. however, the document is controversial. it states that it is intended for the reception of migrants from third countries and not for the movement of persons within the eu internal market. however, it is envisaged that the discussions on the publication of the green paper will form the basis of a plan to respond to labour market needs. the migrants will be admitted to the eu labour market and offered employment through eu labour market instruments such as the european public employment service and the eures labour mobility portal. the council directive on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents, which entered into force in 2006, provides that long-term migrants will be able to move to or settle in another member state for the purposes of education, employment, self-employment or even settling without engaging in any economic activity. this means that long-term economic migrants will be able to work and provide services virtually throughout the eu's internal market. meanwhile, the new eu member states have a seven-year transition period for the free movement of labour. for the second year in a row, we have been debating the services directive in parliament. the eu itself has neither free movement of persons nor free movement of services. given that the determination of economic migration flows is a competence of the member states, i propose that the rules for the admission of economic migrants to the eu be limited to minimum criteria for the admission of migrants, leaving the final decision to the member state, all the more so since the eu does not have a common industrial policy. thank you. thank you.
for the ppe-de group first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr giovanni pittella, on his excellent report and thank him for his constructive cooperation during the first reading of the budget in the european parliament. i am pleased that in the committee on budgets we have been able to reach decisions on the main priorities: better financing of the european union's competitiveness and cohesion, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, other measures to implement the lisbon strategy, improving citizens' security, consolidating the european union's recent enlargement and enhancing the role of the european union as a global partner. these are the priorities on which our efforts should be focused in 2006. if the council agrees to the european parliament's proposal for a flexibility instrument, we will have enough money to finance the reconstruction of iraq and afghanistan and, of course, to help with the reconstruction of several asian countries after the tsunami. 2006 is an exceptional year from a budgetary point of view. this is the last year of the current financial period and the council has failed to reach a consensus on the new financial perspective. as preparations for the new enlargement of the european union are to take place, i think that the council's behaviour is irresponsible, since it is discussing enlargement without agreeing on its financing. the european parliament is therefore forced to consider a wide range of alternatives, including the worst-case scenario. i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will support the main proposals of the committee on budgets and that we will be well prepared for the second conciliation meeting with the council in november.
the afghan case is the only case so far in which a terrorist organisation that has launched a war against the strongest democratic state has a known address. that address was a backward country that was sheltering a specific terrorist organization, and that was afghanistan, which was run by the taliban party. this made possible a retaliatory strike by the alliance for democracy on a defined geographical point, ending the tyranny of the taliban and opening the prospect of democracy to the afghans. you really couldn't have been more excited to see so many ordinary people, especially rural women, going to the polls for the first time in their lives, hoping for better order, freedom and respect for all people. we'll see that after the taliban was removed, all the terrorist organizations, even those with sponsors, didn't make the same mistake and didn't distribute business cards with the address of the place to be hit. they have forced others to defend themselves and have reached an even greater confusion when terrorists operating in iraq from jordan, iran, saudi arabia and elsewhere are called not invaders but insurgents. but afghanistan, as the first global terrorist warfare arena, is already making a real push for democracy. iraq is now the front line of a fanatical all-out war against the west, and afghanistan is almost there. however, the prospects for democracy and human rights in afghanistan are a great challenge for all. the european union is making a very significant contribution and all of europe must be a sincere facilitator in this historic new state-building. i am proud that my country, lithuania, can help us do this by taking responsibility for an entire region. lithuanians are helping to build a new afghanistan. and more european countries could do that. the success of afghanistan will be the first defeat of the global terrorist front, and with it the hope that all the new model of totalitarian aggression can be repelled. thank you. thank you.
author. uzbek president islam karimov is brazenly and blatantly ignoring the international community's desire to reveal the full truth about what happened in andijan in may this year. he makes his own truth. president karimov is fabricating the truth by openly violating human rights, by erasing the traces of the killings, by neutralizing witnesses and their relatives. it seems that there can only be one truth in uzbekistan the truth carefully censored by the authorities. terrorism and economic crime are two vague motives behind which the open crackdown on so-called enemies of the state is attempted to be concealed. i think there has to be a line between security and repression. when opposition is suppressed, it concentrates on radical forms. religious extremism is fueled by social injustice, by the suppression of diversity of opinion. while uzbekistan is an attractive target for islamic extremists, such actions by the authorities do not stop islamic radicalism, as only democracy and independent courts, not repression, help combat radicalism. mr president, members of the european parliament, i invite you to vote today in favour of this resolution, because i believe that it will be another contribution to our efforts to promote the diversity of opinion, free speech and human rights of the citizens of uzbekistan. that's the real path to democracy.
i would like to point out that next year, on 26 april, it will be 20 years since the famous chernobyl nuclear disaster. it was a terrible disaster for the region and a great threat to europe and to the health and lives of europeans. tens of thousands of young soldiers from the former soviet union have been involved in rescue operations to eliminate environmental hazards as quickly as possible. among these people were citizens of lithuania, latvia, and estonia. today, they are independent states that are members of the european union. i would ask that the governments of these three countries be urged to pay more attention to the victims of the chernobyl accident, who are dying, sick and suffering greatly. as regards the new neighbourhood policy, i ask you, mr president, to ask the governments of ukraine, moldova, russia and belarus to set up special programmes for the victims of chernobyl, i.e. for those who have contributed greatly to the security of europe.
mr president, there are states or quasi-states defined as ‘non-democracies’ or dictatorships with regimes unauthorised by the people’s free will. therefore, they are illegally imposed by usurpers of fundamental human rights. one could call these regimes ‘illegal’ when considered in the light of values shared by free nations in democracies. nevertheless, we agree that a law passed by a dictator is still called a law. a court which is subordinated to the will of usurpers is still called a court. despite being written by a bloody hand, a penal or procedural code is still called a code. even dictatorships are already referred to and treated as democracies of a special sort, sometimes being referred to as ‘real democracies’, although they are different from the formal ones. we know of the consequences of the great european tyrannies of the last century. nowadays, tyrannies also exist in cuba, iran and belarus. in the latter country, a neighbour of russia, the moves made by an increasingly authoritarian state against its citizens are still defined as being made in a court of law.
in some of the new eu countries, population growth has declined dramatically in the past year. mostly in lithuania, latvia and estonia. this was also due to emigration to the old eu countries. the free movement of persons is one of the eu's major achievements. but the new countries bleed, giving away many of their most talented, well-educated people to the older, much richer ones. in lithuania, the average cost of training a student is 7 000 euros, a doctor costs 26 000 euros and a lawyer 60 000 euros. of course, it is cheaper and more convenient to get specialists from new countries than to prepare them at home. but it's like a charity that the less fortunate give to the more prosperous. no red flags or restraints. a system for the registration of young professionals working permanently in other eu countries needs to be developed. to establish a fair playing field. a special fund is needed to reduce the painful effects of brain drain. solidarity is the essence of the european union.
looking back at the results of the 2004 audit of the community's financial accounts, i am pleased to note that the management of the preaccession funds, i.e. those used by my country, lithuania, has received a positive audit assessment. unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the overall assessment of the state of the eu accounts. a paradoxical situation has arisen whereby beneficiaries are unable to absorb the funds allocated to them because the various supervisory requirements are very complex and disproportionate to the benefits received, but the auditors consider that these requirements do not provide sufficient assumptions to express their opinion. it is clear that the current system of accounting for aid does not allow the eu's main financial objective to be achieved, namely the transparent and efficient use of the eu budget. i would therefore like to call on the european commission and the auditors to be more decisive in implementing the reform plan that has been prepared, to be more decisive in talking about the problems, because this is a huge untapped reserve. i am not a pessimist, and i believe that these reforms and the integrated internal control system can help to solve the problems that have arisen.
the high pressure put on accession countries such as slovakia, lithuania and now bulgaria to accept commitments to close their nuclear power plants ahead of their projected deadlines has been unconditional for several years. these commitments are difficult to justify economically and to explain logically. we have to admit that there have been some unforgettable political decisions. many experts acknowledge that the premature closure of nuclear power plants is a major blow to the economies of these regions and a billion-dollar burden on the taxpayers of the european union. it is essential to help ensure the security of energy supply in these regions, as the forced closure of nuclear power plants poses a threat not only to economic but also to political dependence on energy suppliers. in this context, i would like to emphasise one of the necessary conditions for closure, namely the creation of a common energy system for the european union, the supply of energy resources. in this case, timely and sufficient financing of the nuclear power plants to be closed must be ensured and in no way at the expense of each other. the changed situation dictates the right decision - to continue the work of the nuclear power units. we have to live in an intelligent reality.
i would like to congratulate anders wijkman and other like-minded people who have convinced us that saving the planet is not someone else's business but our own. the european union must use all its influence to put even more pressure on those countries, even the very powerful and large ones, which have not yet joined the kyoto protocol. it would be naive to claim that if the united states had followed the requirements of the kyoto protocol, it would not have been devastated by hurricanes katrina and wilma. but the cruel retaliation of nature is a devastating blow to the very state that has done her the most harm. if the world community does not take urgent and drastic action to stop global warming, the planet will become a hurricane-bearing, fire- and water-breathing monster. the report rightly proposes to make the eu an even clearer leader in the use of renewable energy sources. i strongly support the proposal to increase the awareness of eu citizens and to involve them in activities that are environmentally friendly. we need to work more vigorously to develop a system of taxes, fines and incentives that makes businesses and firms work more economically and efficiently. more important is the way you live. every citizen of the eu should feel that living with as little pollution and heat as possible is not only beautiful and noble, but also worthwhile.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your time. the agenda of the sixth wto ministerial conference includes a number of important issues. i would like to start by talking about trade facilitation. at this stage of the negotiations, it is necessary to improve the wto rules on freedom of transit; on duties and formalities relating to exports and imports; and on the publication and administration of trade regulations. trade facilitation would allow for the application of uniformly stringent customs procedures, consultation and information to all wto participants before trade regulations are introduced, and would benefit all trading parties. the second aspect is that there are other issues which we cannot expect to be discussed and resolved in a real way at this conference, but we must start discussing them. this is a revision of the wto rules, introducing social and labour and environmental standards. understandably, many wto countries with low labour and environmental standards are reluctant to discuss these issues because they will lose competitiveness compared to countries with higher standards. perhaps previously unnoticed, china's aggressive entry into global textile and other product markets since the beginning of the year has left countries with high labour and environmental standards losing the race. if we are talking about trade liberalization, we must be talking about a level playing field for all countries. sooner or later, we're gonna have to talk about it. trade cannot be treated as a separate entity, separate from production, occupational safety and the environment. it seems that a change in the way the wto takes decisions should be considered in order to avoid blocking the defence of group interests, discussions and decision-making by the parties.
on 27 and 28 october, the transnistrian negotiations were resumed and are now being conducted under the 5+2 principle. the five previous participants in the negotiations - russia, ukraine, the osce, moldova and transnistria - were joined by the united states and the european union, which are also involved in the negotiations as observers. moldova has repeatedly stated its objectives of european integration and the most important problem facing the country is the transnistrian problem. of course, it is difficult to expect extraordinary results as soon as negotiations are resumed. but i would like to point out that it is a matter of concern that the united states and the european union have signed a document treating the two parts of moldova as equal parties to the conflict, with russia as a mediator. i am convinced that the eu's position in this case is not fully considered and is also flawed, because the transnistrian conflict is a conflict between russia and moldova, i.e. russia should not be treated as a mediator.
for the alde group i would also like to thank mr becsey for his work on vat and related documents. we are talking today about a tax that is important for the whole of europe. although the european union does not have a common fiscal policy, value added tax is the main source of funding for the european union's budget. as early as 1977, with the adoption of the sixth vat directive, an attempt was made to create a broadly identical vat base in order to ensure the stability of contributions to the budget of the european union. much progress has been made in this area, but the current vat tariff system still provides for much lower vat rates, which are applied by way of exception to a wide range of goods and services. moreover, not only do the products to which these vat rates apply differ from one member state to another, but also the periods of validity of those exemptions. such a complex system creates a disadvantage for forecasting long-term budgetary flows and also potentially different possibilities for countries to apply the provisions of the vat directive. i would therefore like to propose and support those proposals that the european commission should review and draw up a common list of goods and services which could be subject to lower tariffs and that the macroeconomic impact, the experience of the various countries, should be assessed and that the list should not be temporary but should be indefinite, unless, of course, by mutual agreement, it is decided otherwise. the introduction of such a regime will help to eliminate the erroneous practice whereby one country may exceptionally apply lower tariffs while another country cannot apply such tariffs. this will also undoubtedly ensure the stability of revenue to the european union budget, as it will be possible to predict long-term funding flows.
mr president, i wish to make some remarks concerning the enlargement of the wto. in november 2005, the russian state-owned pipeline company transneft terminated the long-term transport agreement with the kazakhstan company kazmunaigaz, as it is now negotiating the acquisition of the shares of a lithuanian oil refinery and a long-term contract for oil transit, which appears in contradiction with russia’s expansionist plans. russia recently placed a ban on imports of plant products from lithuania and now from poland. both are being openly punished for their support of ukraine. the notorious yukos case shows the lack of rule of law, an independent judiciary, guarantees for private business and predictability of trade. then there is the expropriation of the lifelong savings of ordinary lithuanian people by moscow in 1990. these facts challenge any credibility russia has in international finance and business matters. the eu might feel that russia is not yet mature enough to be a member of the wto.
for the alde group the document in question is of great importance not only for the european financial market but also for the european parliament itself for two reasons. first, the european parliament clearly demonstrates in this document that it is responding promptly to justified requests from market participants to revise the deadlines for the entry into force of the directive. secondly, and equally importantly, parliament assesses its ability and its right to waive certain provisions of a directive if it appears that the strategy chosen does not meet the needs of the market. this directive is of a transitional nature. it is a synthesis of all the gains made in the market and consolidates its regulation, but perhaps more attention should be paid to the preparation of specialised legal acts. i would therefore like to support the proposal presented, but i would also like to stress that this examination has also revealed serious shortcomings in the adoption of legal instruments regulating the financial market. we need to review the strategy for financial market legislation, because now we are very often focused on the technical details, but what is the process, what is the order of the adoption of financial market legislation? there are a number of options, but they are not good. and you know, we're changing the deadlines again at the last minute, when some provision of the law comes into force before the law itself. the preparatory phase was therefore inappropriate, the market opportunities and market needs were not assessed. i'd like to speak to the commissioner. he always promises to reduce the legal burden on the market. however, i believe that this legal burden would be reduced if we worked more with market players and did less to amend directives that have not yet entered into force.
for the alde group recently, we have been paying a lot of attention to tax policy, although this is more of a national policy element. unfortunately, these considerations are limited to the examination of individual taxes, which does not allow the economic impact of each type of tax to be assessed. the profit tax is used to stimulate supply, or often said to stimulate entrepreneurship. these characteristics vary from country to country and depend on many factors, traditions, education, historical experience and the way of life, so it is clear that different efforts are needed to encourage entrepreneurship in different countries and, accordingly, different rates of corporation tax are needed. my group will not support amendments which propose to achieve, in one way or another, the unification of the rate of corporation tax. however, we support the proposals in mr bersani's report to establish a common basis of assessment and application. because the creation of a single base will, firstly, allow the benefits of the single market to be exploited more fully and, secondly, enable the most talented entrepreneurs, i.e. the real talents, to make their mark not only in their own country but also throughout the european union. this will certainly help to build up traditions of entrepreneurship and make it easier to cope with the challenges of globalisation. what is the concern? two facts are of concern and seem to be further developments that should be considered in further legislative work. in particular, how can unfair competition be avoided if small companies take advantage of the broader tax base in their country, while large companies operating in several countries choose the more optimal tax country operating in one of the countries. another question is how to divide the income from corporate tax between the parties if the company operates in several countries and uses a uniform corporate tax calculation procedure.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, it is an honour and a privilege to be back in this chamber to represent the presidency of the council in this important debate on the budget of the european communities for 2006. the european parliament’s second reading of the annual budget, culminating in the vote on thursday, is a key part of the european union calendar and is probably more important this year than ever before. the agreement between the council and the parliamentary delegation on the main elements of the 2006 budget was reached in the end in the best spirit of cooperation and compromise. by putting that agreement into effect in the adopted budget, the european parliament has the opportunity to send a clear signal to the people of europe that, despite the challenges we face over the constitution and future financing, the european union is still operating effectively and in their best interest. i do not need to remind honourable members of the historical importance of this budgetary procedure. they will be acutely aware that the last procedure under the current financial perspective has a special role in bridging past priorities and future objectives to provide a measure of continuity and the basis for coherence between two financial perspectives. i believe the agreement we reached in brussels two weeks ago broadly satisfies those objectives. but it does something more than that. the difficulty of reconciling our policy priorities with the core principles of budget discipline and sound financial management highlights the fact that the current budget structures are stretched to breaking point. the next financial perspective must offer the prospect of real reform and renewal in the future if the ec budget is to remain relevant and genuinely meet the needs and expectations of european citizens in the 21st century. it will not be easy, but if the two arms of the budgetary authority – the parliament and the council, which i represent today – can build on the spirit of cooperation we found in the end to deliver a 2006 budget, we have a chance to create a shared vision in the next few days for a better future in 2007-2013 and beyond. returning to 2006, honourable members will be aware that the budget agreement between the council and the parliamentary delegation focused primarily on three key elements. each required some compromise from both sides, in some cases, frankly, going into uncharted budget waters, which perhaps explains why it was necessary to take a little longer over negotiations than has been the case traditionally. i stress that in each case, the parliamentary delegation drove a hard bargain and, as a consequence, several members of the council felt unable to support our final compromise. but i believe that we reached a fair and balanced outcome in the end, one which i was able to steer through council by a qualified majority. firstly, we agreed to amend upward the financial envelopes for six codecided programmes in heading 3: internal policies. the council did not see the need to propose these increases in its draft budget; however, the parliamentary delegation argued strongly that the six programmes concerned would be severely constrained without additional resources. in the spirit of compromise and consistent with the interinstitutional agreement, i was able to persuade the council to accept these changes. this is the first time that has been agreed in the current financial perspective. it is perhaps fitting that it happened in the final year of that perspective, and i am sure that both arms of the budgetary authority would want to consider it as an exceptional event. secondly, we agreed to mobilise the flexibility instrument for programmes in heading 4: external actions, for a total of eur 275 million. the council took the initial view that it ought to be possible, with some reprioritisation, to finance all external actions within the budget ceiling. however, i stress that the council remains firmly committed to meet the urgent needs of external partners consistent with promises made and commitments undertaken. member states recognise the tight budgetary constraints in heading 4, demonstrated no more clearly than the common foreign and security policy, and the council was ultimately persuaded of the need to mobilise the flexibility instrument to ease these constraints. i believe the outcome, which exceeds the commission’s proposals by more than eur 110 million, represents a fair compromise, ensuring resources for key urgent priorities, such as iraq, tsunami reconstruction, traditional assistance for sugar protocol countries, and cfsp. it also recognises that further demands on the external actions budget are likely during 2006. however, i stress that this is the first time it has been necessary to exceed eur 200 million in a single year. the council considers this an exceptional event and some member states remain convinced that it is an unnecessary step. i hope that honourable members will appreciate the significance of this outcome and share with me the hope that more effective use of the principle of reprioritisation and reallocation will prevail in similar circumstances in future years. finally, as required by the treaty, the council and the parliamentary delegation agreed to set the level of overall payments for 2006 at eur 111 969 million. this represents the commission’s original proposal which, after taking account of amending letters 1, 2 and 3, is more than half a billion euros above the council’s original position. i recognise that this figure is somewhat lower than some members of parliament would have liked. however, it is firmly based on the commission’s estimates of what it is able effectively to spend. i am sure honourable members will share my concern not to create an unnecessary budget surplus and so would recognise the case for prudence. of course the budgetary authority stands ready to consider an amending budget to amend the level of payments, should that prove necessary during 2006. as i said earlier, i believe that this compromise agreement represents a fair and balanced outcome for all three institutions – council, parliament and commission. there are no doubt elements of it that each of us might like to improve, but that is the essence of compromise. no one is entirely satisfied, each of us has made a sacrifice and modified our positions. both the council and parliament had tough mandates this year and it was no easy matter to find common ground. consequently, i commend this solution to you and look forward to your vote. i should now like to touch very briefly on other aspects of the council’s second reading, which honourable members might like to take into account. in heading 1: agriculture, the council reinstated the eur 150 million reduction from the first reading and accepted instead the commission’s amending letter 2, which reduces expenditure on subheading 1a by eur 361 million compared to the preliminary draft budget. in heading 2: structural operations, the council reinstated its first reading position for a reduction of eur 150 million for payments compared to the pdb. this reflects the council’s view of the expected implementation rate and is based on past evidence of implementation shortfalls, including amending budget 8 for 2005. in heading 3: internal policies, the council largely reinstated its first reading position but made some modest changes to a few key budget lines, including an increase in the payments for research lines, reflecting the increased emphasis on lisbon from hampton court and entrusting the commission to improve the implementation record in this area. this allows a 16% increase to research payments, compared to 2005. in heading 4: external actions, the council reinstated its first reading and also accepted the commission’s amending letter 1 concerning traditional assistance for sugar protocol countries, allocating resources from its first reading margin. in heading 5: administrative expenditure, the council partly accepted parliament’s first reading amendment to the commission budget in light of new evidence about vacancy rates. it also accepted the proposal to reduce eur 20 million from parliament’s budget. otherwise it reinstated its first reading position, recalling the need for savings in operating costs from interinstitutional cooperation and economies of scale. finally, in heading 7: pre-accession strategy, the council reinstated its first reading position. of course, parliament will need to make changes to the council’s second reading position to implement our agreement on payments, codecided amounts and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. i very much hope that parliament will take account of the council’s position, especially concerning commitments in headings 3 and 5, where there are clear opportunities to make savings and ensure there is a margin for the unexpected during 2006. in conclusion, the agreement we reached on 30 november provides adequate funding for the european union’s various priorities. it broadly respects the important principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management, of which the council and parliament are joint guardians. it deserves the confidence of the citizens of the european union and will contribute to rebuilding public confidence in the union and its institutions. i hope honourable members will forgive me if i do not remain in the chamber for the duration of this morning’s debate, as i need to return urgently to london. however, i will be staying to hear as many speeches as possible, which i am sure will be of the usual thoughtful and constructive nature. i intend to return to strasbourg on thursday for the vote and the adoption of the 2006 ec budget. mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i wish to say that it has been a privilege and a pleasure to work through this process – although not on every occasion – and we can be rightly proud of the agreement that we are seeking to conclude during the course of this week. (applause)
member of the commission. having successfully reached this climax of the budgetary cycle, we can already say that constructivity, realism and political responsibility have won the budget negotiations. thanks to wise and inevitable compromises, we are now close to the target for the 2006 budget, which may determine not only the financial possibilities for the coming year but also the future financial fate of europe. the adoption of the budget can and i hope will be a vital message for the european union today that its institutions are still functioning and that they are able to act constructively, to take important decisions together and to achieve positive results. i would also regard the outcome of the 2006 budget negotiations as an optimum success. mr president, regarding the positive outcome of the negotiations for 2006: overall, a successful result has been achieved and one with which parliament can be satisfied and proud. i would like to thank mr pittella, mr lewandowski the chairman of the committee on budgets, and all the rapporteurs involved in the process. from the very beginning, the commission strongly supported the parliament's interpretation of the flexibility instrument which the council, after hard negotiations, has now accepted. despite the council's refusal to go over eur 200 million, now, with the final outcome, eur 275 million has been made available under the flexibility instrument, creating essential room for manoeuvre in heading 4. turning to the co-decision programmes, you have achieved an important eur 100 million over 6 programmes. from the earliest stages, this was a strategy supported by the commission in the negotiation process, and now that agreement has been reached by both arms of the budgetary authority, the commission will do its utmost to ensure implementation of the new amounts. i would also like to thank parliament, and in particular mr pittella, for taking account of so many aspects of the commission's letter of executability of the amendments from the first reading. i would now like to turn to the level of payment appropriations. it is important that the payment appropriations in the budget can cover the incoming bills and ensure that beneficiaries receive the payments they are expecting. the level of payment appropriations agreed for 2006 is accompanied by the agreed declaration, so that, if necessary and on the basis of the most up-to-date information, this will allow for any additional appropriations needed to be made available as soon as possible. in order to facilitate the deal between the two arms of the budgetary authority, the commission has proposed amending letter 3, which is technically well founded, but the commission will keep a close eye on the implementation of the 2006 budget and will not hesitate to use the budgetary tools at our disposal if certain areas need to be reinforced. in the first instance, appropriations can be transferred and, notably, we can also call on the provisions of the declaration agreed at the trilogue, should an amending budget be required. i would finally point out that the total payment appropriations figure on the table today represents an increase of almost 6% compared to the 2005 budget. the budget agreed is optimal and fair, and it is necessary for europe. i wish parliament a constructive debate and a successful vote on thursday. (applause) thank you very much.
for the ppe-de group i am pleased that agreement has been reached on the 2006 budget of the european union. considerable concessions were made by both sides, the european parliament and the council, and the european union's budget for 2006 can now be expected to be adopted on 15 december. the group of the european people's party in the european parliament, of which i am a member, should be satisfied with the result of the agreement, because our main objectives have been achieved. in 2006, more funds will be allocated to the joint decision programmes for research, socrates, life, small and medium-sized enterprises, youth programmes, european cultural organisations. growth, competitiveness and support for small and medium-sized enterprises have been and are the priorities of the european people's party. it is also very important that the flexibility instrument has been agreed to be used for external policy and for new needs: iraq, reconstruction of the countries affected by the tsunami, sugar reform in the african, caribbean and pacific countries, and that eur 275 million have been allocated to it, including eur 40 million for the european union's common foreign and security policy. the level of payments in 2006 was a major negotiating point for the european parliament and the agreement reached is within the financial perspective, amounting to 111.969 billion, or 1.01% of gross national income, and therefore a good outcome of the negotiations. the european parliament voted at first reading for a substantial increase in payment appropriations, but the compromise reached with the council on payment appropriations for 2006 provides a good basis for agreeing both on the new financial perspective and on the agreement on the 2007 budget of the european union. i congratulate my colleague, the lead rapporteur, mr giovanni pittella, and the committee chair, mr lewandowski, and the commissioner and the council on this good agreement.
member of the commission. my credibility is not affected by a working dinner or whatever. i repeat that my duty is to make proposals to the commission based on facts and figures. that is what happened in this case. i was not asking the commission for support. i just presented my decision based on the facts and figures. the commission has a duty to make its decisions on an informed basis and that is particularly the case in the competition portfolio. again, i repeat that when i went to the college i stated the facts and figures. standard eu rules in this case meant that we could not deal with it and proposed that it should be dealt with in spain, by the national competition authority.
member of the commission. community assistance under the ignalina programme is delivered in two ways. the first is directly to the beneficiary country using a mechanism based on one of the european community’s pre-accession financial instruments, phare. the second, covering the bulk of assistance, is delivered through an international fund managed by the european bank for reconstruction and development, the ebrd. the community is the main, but not sole, contributor to that fund. the commissioning of a nuclear power plant is a long process, often spanning decades, and involves the planning and construction of large complex facilities. related projects will often only be commissioned several years after a contract has been signed. for the specific case of ebrd-managed projects, the rules of the ignalina decommissioning support fund require that before contracts can be concluded on any project sufficient funds must be available on the ebrd’s account. that is normal project management practice. that situation leads to contracts being awarded that will not be completed for several years and, clearly, do not require disbursement of all budget costs. as a consequence, the annual appropriations for the ignalina programme will not necessarily match payments in any one year. payments in any given year may even exceed the actual annual community commitment to the fund.
i am quite disappointed by the commissioner's answer, because he has probably heard about the rows about the so-called accumulated appropriations that have still not been paid. what surprised me is that 50% of the total amount foreseen in the 2005 budget was not used, so the problem is not about using the funds in the future, but rather about why we have to accumulate such large amounts of money and appropriations in advance.
for the alde group the proposal from the european commission on the rights of persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air was timely and i, as the shadow rapporteur of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe in the european parliament, agree in principle that the rights of persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air should be regulated at european union level. it is no secret that disabled people and people with reduced mobility are discriminated against against against other passengers not only when booking air tickets but also when boarding an aircraft. i therefore believe that the entry into force of the new directive will prevent this discrimination. i believe that by supporting this report we will ensure equal travel opportunities for disabled people and people with reduced mobility and regulate the provision of these services at european union level. persons with reduced mobility shall not be unreasonably refused booking or boarding. in addition, specially trained staff will provide assistance to them according to their individual needs, and most importantly, these services will be provided free of charge to disabled people and under the responsibility of a single authority, which will ensure that the services are provided continuously and in a high quality manner. i congratulate mr evans and thank him for the opportunity to cooperate constructively. i believe that the compromise agreements reached will contribute to the adoption of legislation at first reading.
mr president, in proposing the resolution i have tabled, i would just like to emphasize that the council and the commission are applying double standards to the eastern countries. here's a specific example. we all know that human rights are being violated in belarus and russia. russia is also committing genocide against one nation, which is not even in belarus. however, the council and the commission treat these two countries in very different ways. president lukashenko is being given the door to any country in the european union, while president putin is being welcomed with open arms. if such double standards are applied only because of russian oil and gas reserves, which belarus does not have, then such a policy is immoral. although the european union should be the benchmark for human rights, it should also be the benchmark for moral policy throughout the world. i do not think that the council and the commission are unaware of the principles of moral policy, but they should not be sold for oil and gas.
