on behalf of the group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists are campaigning for a europe of excellence. for us, the lisbon policy is the royal road to european competitiveness, the foundation of the well-being of our citizens. it's called social cohesion. the european union must stop complaining about europe's supposed detachment from other parts of the world. if europe were no longer competitive, how could the union then take over the bulk of world trade? in 2003, the eu accounted for 40% of world trade in goods and 45% of world trade in services, more than the united states, japan and china combined. of course, some of our industries face competition from countries with low wages, but breaking our social model is not going to make us better products. i would like to say to some of my conservative and liberal colleagues that a protective right to work is a guarantee of a feeling of security and even well-being at work. it is therefore, in the final analysis, an important element of the productivity of employees and, therefore, of the competitiveness of enterprises. there is no antinomy here but complementarity. i have just quoted the chairman of the luxembourg christian social party, mr biltgen, a leading member of the european people's party... president juncker heads a coalition government of christian social and socialists, which is a guarantee of reviving the union on the basis of a broad political consensus. the european socialists have high hopes for this luxembourg presidency, first of all to revive lisbon and make it a real instrument of progress, especially at the level of the twenty-five. to this end, the macroeconomic framework must be reoriented towards a policy of growth and stability. stability is a public good, which we must defend in the interests of the most humble of our fellow citizens. but there will never be stability without stronger economic growth. the stability pact must become an instrument not only for combating public deficits but also for shaping economic policy in line with economic cycles. more fiscal discipline is needed in times of economic upswing and more flexibility in times of recession. in assessing the state of public finances in each country, the commission must assess the quality of spending. borrowing should be prohibited for the financing of current expenditure: it should be reserved for capital expenditure preparing the future. there will be no more europe with less money. a union of 455 million citizens cannot develop with a budget limited in 2005 to 1.004% of european gnp. the lisbon rebound, the 'smart' stability pact, financial perspectives that really open up new prospects for europe: these are the herculean tasks to be undertaken by the luxembourg presidency. at the same time, we ask the union not to forget the world's neglected. if the international community is able to reduce the debt of iraq by 80%, if it wants to reduce the debt of the countries hit by the tsunami, it must also be able to cancel the debt that is crushing all development in the third world countries. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the luxembourg presidency of the council in the first half of 2005 will most likely be the last of its kind for us. the european constitution provides for lasting reforms of the presidency of the council of heads of state or government when my country is next in line to assume the rotating presidency. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the negotiations. the biggest and most difficult tasks of our presidency in 2005 will be fiscal policy. the establishment of the fiscal framework for 2007-13 and a more flexible interpretation of the stability and growth pact dominate the agenda of the luxembourg presidency. the financial framework for the enlarged union must be negotiated in such a way that national fiscal constraints do not stand in the way of ambitious european policy-making. we cannot meet the expectations of 450 million europeans of the union's ability to act by arguing over tenths and hundredths of a percentage point. the luxembourg presidency must therefore succeed in the trick of european alignment of the union's financial planning. in doing so, it acts in the interests of all europeans and of a union which is not only enlarging but at the same time putting its policies on a sufficient and appropriate financial basis for the benefit of its citizens. otherwise, there will be no further enlargement. the cyclical interpretation of the european stability pact is to become a reality during the next six months. the adjustment of the stability pact to cyclical realities is indeed a requirement of economic policy rationality. it is also a requirement of the most dynamic employment policy in europe. the pact is also called the growth pact, and we must prevent it from being too rigid and preventing growth rather than promoting it. the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy will be held on 22 march 2005. the commission will also be reviewing the priorities, in addition to examining what has been achieved so far. the luxembourg presidency proposes that by 2010 each member state should have initiated tangible and measurable reforms in each of the lisbon strategy's policy areas. however, the economic environment in the union will also change over the next five years. europe is not alone in the world in its quest for efficiency and competitiveness. the lisbon reform agenda will need to be successfully implemented by 2010. the luxembourg presidency is aware of this. it will endeavour to bring about a phase of concrete progress after the time of the announcement. finally, i would like to say a word in this debate about the epochal events in ukraine. this european state has shown in the last month that it wants to be part of us and that it can enrich the european family with its convictions and experience. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. (applause from the right)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i welcome the clear and courageous statements made by the luxembourg presidency on sustainable development policy. more than other presidencies, the luxembourg presidency is trying to maintain a balance between economic, social and environmental policies. it argues for the obvious: in terms of growth policy, social and environmental policies are a starting point and not an endpoint. i hope that this is the spirit in which the luxembourg presidency will make policy in the european council and in the respective sectoral councils. i am sure that your proposals on major construction projects, the financial perspective, the reform of the stability pact and the revision of the lisbon process are guided by this spirit of sustainable development. mr president-in-office of the council, i also hope that you will find the energy to convince the european council that europe must remain the driving force behind the kyoto process. it is imperative that, following the success of kyoto, the european union now sets out a long-term framework for climate change policy, i.e. with the 2020-2050 objectives. our citizens expect it, but so do the economic players. in key sectors such as energy and transport, how can we guide the investments of economic actors in europe if we have not drawn up a clear framework for future policies in this area? let us now turn to the lisbon strategy. you mentioned that it was concerned with three areas: ecological, social and economic. it is the ambitious environmental policies of recent decades that have made europe the world leader in ecotechnologies and renewable energy. i hope you will take up chapter v of the koch report and make these ambitious policies an asset for the european economy. the lisbon agenda must also include an ambitious social policy. the commission is pushing liberalization very far, especially in the light of the bolkenstein directive. i am glad that you, mr juncker, are criticizing this directive. i hope that the luxembourg presidency will also use the criticism in the competitiveness council to discuss and possibly to hold back the progress of this directive and to push the commission to put a directive on services of general interest on the table. i think there will be confusion about the bolkenstein directive as long as the question of services of general interest is not clarified. the presidency's ambition is to bring together the social, environmental and economic fields. i'm very pleased. it's good for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, since 1 january luxembourg has held the presidency for the 11th time. the experience gained and the excellent preparation, of which i can testify, will be very useful in meeting the various challenges that lie ahead, starting with the terrible disaster in asia, which has demonstrated the urgency of coordinating humanitarian aid on the ground and should encourage us to set up the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps as soon as possible, as provided for in the constitution. there are other files waiting for you. i will mention only three. the lisbon process, first of all: now at the halfway point, it needs to be clarified, its priorities must be targeted and, more simply, it will need to be made more intelligible. so i'm all for your triptych. the financial perspective comes next. it would certainly be a good thing if the luxembourg presidency were to put the final touches to this, but between 1% and 1.24%, then 1.14%, and so on, many hearts, and above all wallets, are shaking. finally, the stability pact will have to be adjusted and the right balance between rigidity and flexibility will have to be found, so as not to lose stability. mr president, i sincerely hope that your successes will match the efforts of many.
mr president, i was not satisfied with the commission's answer either. it claims to have fulfilled its legal obligations and to have acted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management: to offer quality courses at no excessive cost. i personally wonder how the cost of outsourcing or privatising this service has been calculated compared with the cost of previous contracts. i would also point out that we do not miss an opportunity in this house to denounce the outsourcing or privatisation of services by national or international companies in our member states. but our institutions are also privatising and outsourcing, but without social plans, the same social plans that we impose on our companies after negotiations with the trade unions, at least in my country. i therefore believe that a social plan should be drawn up for those concerned, in order to put an end to the real impoverishment to which the families concerned have been exposed; my colleagues have spoken of it extensively. i have a very specific question for you. how was the restricted call for tenders for the selection of firms to replace the former professors from february 2005 onwards carried out? is it true that among the bidders in the tender on 30 june was the british council, where one of the senior posts is currently held by the former commissioner responsible for administration who made the abrupt dismissal? i would also like to add, mr president, that as the questioner responsible for language courses in parliament, we are faced with a similar problem. i hope that we will settle this in a much more social way and in accordance with the basic rules of labour law as applied in all our member states.
mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few personal comments on the commission's work programme. it is a good inventory of the kind that the poet jacques prévert drew up at the time. but as wim kok said about the lisbon process, "lisbon is about everything and therefore about nothing". the commission's work programme is much the same: trees hide the forest. each commissioner endeavoured to decorate his own christmas tree by hanging a few personal garlands on it. i am not criticizing you, mr president. if you had limited yourself to the essentials, the members would have been the first to say that you had forgotten some or other matter which they consider more important. i would ask you, mr president, to concentrate your energies on the essentials. europe must defend its social model, its environmental model. we all agree that europe needs to reform and be more flexible in certain areas. however, you will not win the support of the european citizens by voting for what the right wing is going to vote for tomorrow in my report, namely less taxes for the rich and more work for the working people. it's not working. the economic policy committee, in its 2005 annual report, says, and i quote: 'europe needs a macroeconomic framework conducive to stability and growth. this is essential, but governments will only reap the full benefits of structural reforms in terms of growth and employment in an appropriate macroeconomic environment.' we have stability, we need growth now, mr barroso.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on macroeconomic policy is becoming increasingly ideological. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the same majority clearly rejects the idea that the stability pact must be adjusted to economic cycles and that the commission must also judge the quality of public spending by analysing a state's possible deficit. fortunately, the ecofin council will soon be denying these doctrinaires of stability at any cost. to crown this ultra-liberal obstinacy, the same majority voted for two amendments, one calling for a reduction in the general level of taxation, the other for a general increase in working time. for some colleagues, this probably represents the balance between flexibility and security advocated by the koch report. more jobs for the wage earners, less taxes for the rich. but mr president, let us calmly try to take stock of the european economy. the year 2004 was a good one for the world economy. international trade has never been so important. the new ilo report notes, however, that despite strong global economic growth - up 5 per cent - global unemployment has only declined slightly. on the other hand, relative poverty has declined sharply. the european union has experienced only weak growth and a very slight decline in unemployment, especially in the new member states. on the other hand, productivity in the twenty-five has improved, according to the ilo, "at a rate higher than the world average". this probably explains why the union is the leading exporter of goods and services and why germany alone is doing better than the united states, china or japan. a europe that is the world's leading exporter and the world's leading buyer, and which manages to balance its accounts, cannot be in as bad a situation as the prevailing europe-pessimism would like. i will not indulge in a happy euro-optimism. the union could do better. there is not enough growth, there is too much unemployment, especially in a few large countries, starting with the traditional drivers of the union, germany and france. the ultra-liberals have heard the case. the fault lies with the obstacles to stability policy and the lack of structural reforms. nevertheless, structural reforms were carried out in many countries. the raffarin government has thus initiated a pension reform, chancellor schröder has passed herz 1, herz 2 and now herz 3 and 4. but without growth, the most daring structural measures fail. this is stated in the economic policy committee's annual report on structural reforms, which makes it clear that governments will "reap the full benefits of their structural reforms in terms of growth and employment only in an appropriate macroeconomic environment". while it is true that the overall deficit of the eurozone has increased, while remaining much lower than that of the united states or japan, the result is surprising to the guardians of orthodoxy. the stability pact was devised to prevent public debt from driving interest rates excessively high and, as a consequence, the euro from becoming a weak currency. the ecb was able to achieve historically low interest rates. the euro is almost too strong against the dollar king. despite the turbulence in the oil markets, the inflation rate in the euro area has remained very low, with the purchasing power of eurozone residents being higher than that of americans and britons. clearly, the problem of the eurozone is not lack of stability but lack of growth. in germany and france in particular, but also in italy, domestic demand is insufficient. all the member states have reduced their investments in order to limit the public deficit. as the germans and the french are not consuming enough, private investment is also stagnating. why invest when there's so little demand? on the other hand, the saving rate is at its highest in the eurozone, particularly in france and germany. it denotes a lack of confidence, a fear of the future. there is, however, one large european country which is experiencing appreciable growth, a more acceptable rate of unemployment: great britain. why would you do that? the british government has supported domestic demand through a more active investment policy, through a fiscal policy which does not lock itself into stupid orthodox stability but aims at balance over the whole economic cycle. in addition, the british consume, even though this is done with debt rates almost american. the only disadvantage of the british compared to the eurozone is that they pay base interest rates of 4.75% compared to 2% in the eurozone. the european union and, above all, the eurozone need more growth. this growth can only come from domestic demand, public and private investment and consumption. almost 90% of the union's trade is between the twenty-five. even if the union remains competitive in world trade, growth cannot come from external demand. while some small countries depend mainly on external demand, the large countries still depend mainly on their internal demand. moreover, those who advocate a european competitiveness based on social equality, on wage equalization, should recognize that most trade is with countries with a level of wages and social charges similar to that of europe. the union will not progress by breaking down wages, and therefore consumption. we must stimulate consumption and above all investment in a coordinated way. article 4 of the treaty calls for this coordination of economic policies. the union can get back to growth and jobs through a smart reform of the stability pact.
mr president, my colleagues in the alde and ppe-de groups - given the circumstances in this debate - will certainly be pleased to learn that mr goebbels has been widely quoted in the luxembourg press as saying that their amendments approved in committee reflect 'the fundamentally reactionary and neoliberal character of these two groups in parliament'. there is something laughable about the excesses of his remarks, which suggest that this house is at least made up of reactionary strongmen. however, this statement also raises concerns. the socialist group in this house is happy to cultivate a certain ambiguity in the principles of economic policy. once it's in their home, that ambiguity turns into a real dislike. for my part, i do not think it is superfluous to stress in this debate that the conditions for healthy and sustainable growth are created by sound public finances and reasonable compulsory levies. stability is not an obstacle to growth, it is a prerequisite. we, on the other hand, will not succumb to the same ideological blindness and we will be much more pragmatic. there are situations where more interventionist policies are needed to revive the economic situation, but this is not the case. the current situation in europe is not, or hardly ever is, in line with this pattern. mr goebbels, who had discovered keynesianism a little too late, wanted to adapt it to all recipes and sauces, even when the situation was not suitable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if that were the case, countries known for their lax financial and budgetary policies would have long since been set up as models. finally, mr bullmann, to say that europeans must work as hard, if not better, to guarantee their standard of living in the face of global competition is no more than a thought crime. the exemplary nature of the 35 hours of french-style teaching says more than any long speeches on the subject. mr goebbels, of course, puts forward a number of good ideas in his report - such as encouraging certain types of investment in social services or sustainable development - but he seems to miss the point, namely that economic efficiency follows well-defined rules and that it is dangerous to deny them.
mr president, while i agree with the criticism of the decision of the council of ministers on the enlargement of the community to include the new member states, i must say that the question should also be asked whether the unanimous decision is still to be taken by the council of ministers for culture. since large countries like germany have insisted on unanimity for all decisions, we have now chosen a complicated system which will be - i hope not - overly bureaucratic, with no regard for the opinion of a jury to decide on the candidate cities. we have had the example of patras on 6 may, which was unanimously designated by the council of ministers as european capital of culture for 2006, despite the negative opinion of the jury. so perhaps it is more of an interinstitutional discomfort that is beyond the scope of this debate. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, particularly for all the financial benefits she has brought. we are, of course, dealing with decisions which are now in the hands of the commission. the commission will have to include new ideas in its proposals. i suggest to the commissioners that they take greater account of the mobility factor, since the cultural capital also offers the opportunity to showcase the culture of others. the added value for the region, the sustainability of the projects submitted and the background work carried out should also be taken into account. luxembourg is a bit of an exception to ms pack's criticism, since we have already included sibiu - a city in another country, romania, a candidate country - as a partner city for 2007. luxembourg has extended its project to the whole of the larger region: saarland, rhineland-palatinate, wallonia, lorraine, the german-speaking community of belgium, i.e. five regions and three different languages. the analysis of the achievements of 'luxembourg, capital of culture' in 2007 in favour of a concept of culture in a large region, in order to promote cohesion between citizens, will also offer a vision of the future. i thank you, commissioner, for your attention to this matter.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am surprised at the way mr klinz works. he claims that his amendment was accepted. if that is the case, he should have made a complaint to the secretariat of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is normally doing its job well. otherwise he could have tabled an amendment, which he did not. when we hear him, it is a new report he is proposing to us, and i would ask the house to reject such an oral amendment. it's not an oral amendment, it's a novel. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, as rapporteur i must say that a large part of my report has been 'spoiled' by a right-wing majority in this parliament. the commission voted against article 4 of the treaty, which calls for coordination of economic policies. you voted against president juncker's efforts to make the stability pact into something decent, i.e. a stability and growth pact. i therefore call on my friends to vote against my report. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the proposal for a directive on driving licences because it is the exact opposite of the better regulation we talk about so much. this mass of detail with so many exceptions is not an example of good legislation. the question arises whether a european directive is even necessary in this area. the directive, which is too detailed, is certainly contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. why not accept the principle of country of origin in this matter?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. i agree with him because his proposal actually guarantees road users more safety and freedom of movement and also provides more controls to combat fraud. it is a real scandal that there are people who have been travelling around europe for 10, 20, 30 or more years with a fake driving licence. i am in favour of uniform rules and tests for obtaining a driving licence, uniform rules for age limits, up and down, and i am also in favour of older people over 70 having to renew their driving licence frequently and having to undergo eye and other health tests, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think that in five years, not 20 years, we could have a uniform model of a plastic card with a microchip. but it would also be good for road safety in europe if the countries of the eu were to abolish the left-hand drive, which i believe is the wrong side of the road. the swedes have successfully proved that this is possible years ago. i would also like to drive in ireland without being a danger to myself or other road users".
mr president, people in iraq are dying in the war for oil. the european economy is slowing down as a result of high and volatile oil prices. third world countries are crumbling under debts created by oil imports. is everyone a loser? no, there are some winners: six of the ‘seven sisters’ – including exxon, total, shell, bp, et al. – have earned scandalous amounts of money over the past two to three years. today, in the eu, they have no obligation whatsoever as regards either research or even mixing in some renewables with what they sell to motorists. when will this change, commissioner?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i thank the commissioner for his clear words on energy efficiency; reducing demand in both the energy and transport sectors will be one of the important answers. this weekend i was in wels, austria, attending one of the biggest renewable energy fairs. what has been done in upper austria could be done in other regions of europe, because in upper austria today only 7% of all new houses are heated with oil. 20% of oil use in europe is for heating houses. in upper austria they have more or less completely switched to wood pellets and other renewables. so we definitely need a directive to promote the use of renewables in the heat and cooling sector, in other words low-temperature energy uses. commissioner, i hope that your colleague, mr barrot, will contribute to your efforts to bring more efficiency to the transport sector. we are not efficient enough when it comes to standards for cars. we need a better modal shift in transport. another issue brings me to what oil companies could really do. we have a directive on biofuel. we have to finance the implementation of these directives from our limited public budgets. what if we obliged the oil companies that sell fuel in europe gradually to increase the minimum amounts of green fuels available at the pumps? then the payment would no longer have to come from scarce public resources, but from the huge profits of oil companies. this would be a very clear signal to the oil companies that they have to invest in alternatives and do more to promote them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as greens, we do not want to write a blank check to the barroso commission or to this parliament. we are afraid that once the lisbon nebula has disappeared, we will be confronted with social and environmental realities which do not represent the integration of the three pillars. we have also said this in our amendments: no blank cheques for bolkestein! as long as the commission - and this is also an appeal to the members of parliament - has not withdrawn the proposal, the commission has the possibility of opposing its veto to a progressive vote in parliament's first reading. and we are weakening ourselves as a parliament, we are making ourselves ridiculous if we do not insist at this moment that the commission withdraw this proposal so that we as a parliament know on what basis we are discussing it. we have already said so in amendment no 2.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president borrell's initiative to invite the representatives of the national parliaments to a joint debate on the economic, social and environmental future of europe is already bearing fruit. in most national parliaments, the lisbon strategy has finally become a political issue. the european parliament, in turn, has tried to make proposals that are less ideological, more balanced and more closely related to the daily reality of our 455 million citizens. of course, our draft resolution remains perfect. there are stunning silences, such as the absence of any reference to the need to adjust the stability pact. fortunately, governments of all political persuasions have a more realistic approach than some of their conservative or liberal colleagues. the ecofin council, despite difficult debates, is moving towards an adjustment of the pact. i am willing to bet that the spring summit will succeed in transforming a rather ineffective instrument of budgetary surveillance into an instrument of economic policy for the benefit of growth. with low inflation, historically low interest rates, abundant savings, and businesses that are more than profitable, europe and especially the eurozone is not currently lacking in stability but rather in growth. the priority should be to stimulate domestic demand, particularly in the large eurozone countries: germany, france and italy. it is only through a resumption of public and private investment, a revival of consumption, that our union will be able to boost its growth and create jobs. the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy will have to result in a concentration of resources on the priority objectives: investments in education, training, research, infrastructure. less reporting and more concrete action are needed to create the europe of excellence that socialists so ardently desire. defending a europe of excellence is not defending the status quo. high social and environmental standards can and should be part of a winning economic option. in a world of increasingly mobile capital, europe's most valuable competitive asset remains its well-educated and trained workforce, which has the autonomy to respond to constant change. it is no coincidence that the scandinavian countries, which have adopted the lisbon strategy for social and environmental excellence with the greatest determination, are among the most economically successful european countries. they have endeavoured to provide the kind of real job security that is based on the ability to maintain continuous professional upgrading. a modern competitive environment requires a re-examination of the concept of flexibility. in a rapidly changing global economy, the most successful companies will be the most flexible. companies that rely on rotating reserves of temporary workers will lose ground to companies whose employees are bound by a motivation based on job security and decent working conditions. labour market policies and industrial relations systems need to be reoriented towards anticipating and managing change, in order to create a vibrant european economy and persuade the european workforce that change is not a threat but an opportunity. we need a modern organisation of labour and active labour market policies. the same logic applies to social protection policies, which play a crucial role and call for the strengthening of policies to combat poverty and social exclusion. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that a europe of excellence is possible. the european union is much better than its reputation. from the outside, the union is the world's political entity with the highest standard of living, not only economically but also socially and environmentally. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the socialist group withdraws amendment no 32 in favour of amendment no 27 by mr méndez de vigo and mr lehne, since they have the same objectives, and we therefore ask the members to defer their votes on amendment no 27.
mr president, we are dealing with a separate request for a vote on the second part, which is in fact intended to cut two words out. the socialist group withdraws these two words, which i hope will enable us all to vote together in favour of a more sustainable transport policy.
president of the council. mr president, it was agreed that the european council of 22 march would focus on the lisbon strategy - we discussed this morning - and on the stability and growth pact, although there is still hope that this issue will be resolved before the european council begins. it will also address the sustainable development strategy and the kyoto protocol. since the part on the lisbon strategy was discussed this morning in plenary, i shall not go into it now. i'm going to focus on the other two or three subjects. first, the stability and growth pact. the council's discussions on the reform of the stability and growth pact have been going on for a long time, and for some perhaps for a little too long. the dutch presidency has already discussed this on several occasions and every meeting of the ecofin council, under the luxembourg presidency, has dealt with this as a main point. the discussion on the substance and the amendments requested by the finance ministers led the presidency to present to ecofin on 8 march a document which seeks to respond in a balanced way to the needs of all the member states by finding a compromise based on sound economic sense - this was also discussed this morning - which responds to the real need for greater flexibility in times of difficulty and which requires stricter budgetary discipline in times of growth and prosperity. since the ecofin council was unable to agree on a report to the european council at its meeting on 8 march, the presidency will continue its consultations in order to find a globally acceptable solution which could be submitted to the heads of state or government. a new meeting of the ecofin council was called for 20 march, two days before the start of the european council. i have noted this morning that the risks of no agreement are real and significant, because unfortunately it would not mean that the current pact would be applied as if it were nothing. the lack of agreement would unfortunately not strengthen the credibility of the current pact. a compromise at any price - a kind of compromise at a discount - is not a good solution either. here too, europe is under intense scrutiny, above all by the citizens who expect its decision-makers to be able to pursue economic and fiscal policies that do not sacrifice growth for stability, or stability for short-term growth at best. but let us not put ourselves today in a scenario of failure. a balanced and credible solution is still possible. if it is found, which we hope it will be, the commission will have a clear mandate on the improvements that the member states have agreed to make to the pact. from that moment on, the procedures necessary for the formal revision of the provisions of the pact can begin. if it is a question of revising one or the other of the two regulations, this will be done on the basis of a proposal from the commission and involvement of parliament in accordance with the procedures laid down in the treaty, which is different for each of the acts in question. i would therefore like to turn to the issues of sustainable development and the kyoto protocol, which are obviously also linked to the lisbon strategy, since we have clearly stated this morning that the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy must be maintained and even strengthened. it is therefore only natural that the european council should also be consulted on sustainable development and the kyoto protocol. the presidency considers that sustainable development is a global concept and that the european council will have to clarify how to deal with the future revision of the sustainable development strategy. the guiding principles of sustainable development could, for example, be enshrined in a charter including a set of relevant indicators to be applied in the various policies. the commission could make a proposal to this effect to the european council in june. in any case, time is running out and we think it would be useful if the new strategy on sustainable development were finalised and presented later this year. we all agree that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, with serious environmental, economic and social impacts. we therefore note with satisfaction the entry into force of the kyoto protocol and welcome the ratification of the protocol by the russian federation. we are determined to give new impetus to the international negotiations. to this end, options for a post-2012 regime should first be explored in the context of the un process ensuring the widest possible cooperation of all countries. this week's environment council will look at this and draw conclusions. the second is to develop a long-term eu strategy to limit the temperature increase to two degrees and to reduce cumulative emissions by 15 to 30% by 2020 compared with 1990 levels. finally, a study must be submitted to ensure that all the measures envisaged are cost-effective. you can see that the agenda of the european council is very rich. the european council will not only address issues of vital importance for the future of the european union, but it will also help to give europeans the feeling that this europe cares about their problems today and in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we discussed in detail the new strategy for growth and employment and we were able to achieve perfect convergence between parliament and the commission. i believe that the next european council will also play a central role in this ambitious strategy and that we must not lose this opportunity. this european council comes at a very important time because we have this meeting precisely when a new parliament and a new commission are now beginning to find their cruising speed and to define the way of working over the next few years. but the european council is also taking place at a particular moment because it is the one in which a very wide debate is taking place on the ratification of the constitution, a debate which has to do with the kind of europe we want, the europe we can build for our fellow citizens. that is why it is very important that we show at the next european council that the european union is really working and that the european union has the capacity to successfully launch new initiatives that translate into concrete results in the lives of european citizens. let me single out the two main deliverables for this european council. first, there is the need to relaunch the lisbon strategy and to refocus it on growth and jobs in order to bring our wider economic, social and environmental objectives within reach. this requires more than just words. people need to see a real commitment from member states. that is why our new approach to working to support member states in delivering on the lisbon objectives is critical. second, we must ensure that a stronger stability and growth pact emerges from the summit with its credibility reinforced. both these goals are well within our grasp, and i would like to comment on each one in turn. in relation to lisbon, i would simply emphasize the importance of giving fresh momentum to the process of reform. that is why the european council should make a clear commitment to the new governance mechanisms, the new integrated guidelines and the national and eu lisbon programmes, with simple reporting and better coordination of reforms at national level. the launch and follow-up to the renewed lisbon approach must be prepared through close cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament. i shall now turn to the stability and growth pact. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the implementation of the stability and growth pact has recently been beset by difficulties. divergent interpretations of the treaty and the stability pact have led to uncertainties as to the modalities of budgetary surveillance. we need an interpretation which guarantees its effectiveness and credibility without having to rewrite the pact itself. the discussions at yesterday's ecofin did not lead to a conclusion. the presidency has decided to hold a new ministerial meeting before the european council. i still hope that the spring summit will be able to unveil a renewed and more credible pact based on a complete, coherent and balanced solution. the commission will continue to fight for the principles it has put forward for the reform of the pact, in particular. the treaty's deficit and debt reference values must continue to be respected as the cornerstone of the system. the preventive side of the pact can be improved, notably by defining medium-term budgetary objectives which are specific to each country. in a period of high economic activity, budgetary policy must remain sound. excessive deficits must be identified unambiguously and corrected rapidly. nevertheless, the delay for this correction could take into consideration the economic elements. the commission, for its part, will continue to make every effort with the presidency and the member states to reach an agreement, but not at any price. the council's conclusions will also address other important issues. on some of them, such as sustainable development and climate change, agreement is also essential if we are to use the lisbon reforms to ensure sustainable growth. i look forward with interest to the political impetus of the european council for a european charter for sustainable development, which the commission will not fail to follow and support. finally, we will certainly review the latest developments in the middle east and iraq, and we will examine the progress made in preparing the next enlargement cycle and possible future negotiations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will conclude by saying that this summit is an opportunity which we cannot afford to miss. it must set the tone for future reforms by relaunching lisbon and by strengthening the credibility of the stability and growth pact. as i said this morning, there is indeed a link between the two. it is a question of our credibility, of the way in which we show the european citizens that we are seriously concerned about the future of europe and that we want to work towards it. the citizens, the electors, would simply not understand that we are succeeding not by a breakthrough or that this summit is solved, not by a success, but by winners and losers. the nuances we might wish to add to the question of whether the new lisbon strategy is left-wing, right-wing or centre-left will escape the majority of our citizens. for them, it is about europe, not about this or that institution or element. it is therefore very important to send a coherent message and to show that we are really working together for our europe. the projection of an image of lack of harmony between the institutions, the transmission of a doubtful or pessimistic message about the future of europe would not fail to influence public opinion negatively, which would be particularly dangerous at the moment when the constitutional treaty is being ratified. however, i think we have an excellent chance of success. we have a competent and determined presidency. we have a commission which gives the best of itself. we are today achieving an important victory here by demonstrating our joint determination to pursue a new lisbon strategy. we have shown today that it is really possible to reach a strengthened consensus, a dynamic consensus. it is therefore essential to show the european council that we can help europe to move up a gear. we can launch the reform process, we can begin to mobilise the minds around the idea of a renewed europe. that is the challenge of the spring european council, to ensure that our vision is translated into action. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the ecofin meeting at the beginning of the week still did not provide any definitive clarification of the future evaluation logic of the stability criteria. i very much hope that the ministers responsible will nevertheless reach an agreement before the european council. i myself remain convinced that the foundations of the stability and growth pact must not be shaken. the existing 3% of new debt and 60% of debt as a percentage of gdp thresholds are so closely intertwined with the exchange rate destiny of the euro that they must be maintained in order to preserve the stability and strength of the single currency. the basic principles of the pact also include the fact that a state budget is considered as a whole when assessing compliance with the criteria. this is not only required by general budgetary law, but is also a matter of common sense. a single, integrated budget cannot be assessed by adding or subtracting whole categories of expenditure at the same time. therefore, categories of expenditure which are considered by individual member states to be a particular burden should not be excluded from the assessment of compliance with the stability criteria. finally, it is in the spirit of the pact, which also includes an essential growth component, that a national budget can be given a nuanced assessment in the light of the economic situation. that is why it is necessary to maintain the current procedures, but to make their detailed course and consequences dependent on the reality of a budgetary policy, and that is why - i said it here a few weeks ago - the pact is called the stability and growth pact and too rigid stability must not lead to growth being prevented rather than encouraged. a list of possible elements for a more refined assessment of national stability efforts is available in the ecofin council. i very much hope that elements of this list will be the key to a final agreement before the summit on 22 and 23 march. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the poor results after the first half are largely due to a too wide dispersion of the targets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also support an approach based more on national implementation of the lisbon criteria. this allows for a certain competition for so-called best practices which can only serve the overall success of the strategy. in future, we in europe should try to keep very large announcements to a minimum when the likelihood of their implementation must seem anything but certain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i had had time to speak in the debate on international women's day and beijing + 10, i would have said that it is a pity that violence against women is a constant in this parliament, although thank god it is less frequent than other important problems affecting a much larger number, tens of millions of women. they have been waiting for many years for solutions, which this parliament has, by the way, called for by an overwhelming majority. for example, the splitting of pension rights acquired during the marriage so that the wife who has given up her occupation in whole or in part to devote herself to family duties will not be without social security in the event of divorce. that is why we need a framework directive to prevent divorce tourism in the eu. i would also remind you of our 1996 report on the status of assisting spouses in small farms and agriculture. in this connection, we called for a lifting of directive 86 on equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment and for assisting spouses 10 years ago. nothing has happened! as for the battered women, there are also battered men! in luxembourg, for example, a law has been in place since 2003 and has already helped a great deal. it's the expulsion law, which means that violent men are expelled from their homes. it's not that the women and children have to flee to a battered women's home or to the family if the man becomes violent, no, the man has to leave the common home. it would be appropriate for the commission to propose a recommendation to all member states to adopt a similar law if one does not already exist. we don't even need beijing plus 10 for that!
mr president, of course i am against the trade in both organs and eggs. it's an abject practice. however, i cannot agree with the text of the resolution, because it puts egg donation on the same footing as organ or cell donation. if the latter is done to save lives, the donation of gametes and therefore also of ova should be considered as part of a parenting project. the child to be born of such a gift cannot be considered an object but a person who, if necessary, has the right to know his biological parents later on. the resolution should have referred to this fundamental difference. i regret that the text has not been amended.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the proposed egg trade, which is a bunch of fantasies. on the basis of a rumour in the tabloid press, which was refuted by an official report from the competent british authority, parliament is ignoring the basic principles of human dignity, but refusing to address the fundamental question: should we encourage or not encourage well-managed scientific research on embryonic stem cells? i believe that this research is essential in the fight against genetic diseases and against modern plagues such as alzheimer's and parkinson's. europe's regenerative medicine is taking off compared to the united states and asia. parliament is making a fool of itself by not addressing the issue of egg donation solely from the point of view of the necessary protection of women against involuntary exploitation.
in writing. i voted against the auken report because i believe that we cannot set the future financial perspective by fixing expenditure in advance for one area of environmental policy.
mr president, on women's day, 8 march, there was a violent demonstration in istanbul and the women were forcibly dispersed by the police. at the same time, a european delegation was present in turkey. i think she should have packed immediately. sometimes gestures speak louder than words. i voted for the admission of turkey. i hope that the commission will take all the necessary steps to ensure that this country complies with the rules we are asking for.
in writing. i cannot agree with the report of the committee on budgetary control because it is full of unreasonable assertions, misrepresentations and innuendoes as regards the remuneration of members, travel and general expenses or the voluntary retirement scheme. it is quite reprehensible how individual members try to promote themselves through disinformation and slander in individual media, all at the expense of the reputation of this parliament and of the eu as a whole. the irresponsible attempt by various self-styled cleaners and cleaners to portray the european parliament as a whole, which follows the rules and is not guilty of any wrongdoing, as a rip-off, can no longer be tolerated. i would like to document this by abstaining on this report, although it has been greatly improved by my approval. i cannot vote for this report because its statements on the seat of parliament in strasbourg and the places of work in luxembourg and brussels are simply contrary to the treaty and the decisions on the seat. the additional costs incurred by working in three locations are largely a milkmaid's bill which does not take into account the benefits of this decentralization and is, moreover, based on an unreasonable selfishness of the brussels lobby.
mr president, 60 seconds for so many problems! so i'll have to limit myself. as rapporteur for the economic part of these integrated guidelines, i shall be able to tell you on another occasion how much i appreciate the new procedure. nevertheless, reading these commission proposals left me somewhat hungry. some of the proposals are of a generality bordering on banality. i am well aware that the commission's task is a difficult one, because we live in a europe of 25 states with sometimes very different economic and social situations. in this connection, i would like to know whether the commission intends to do what vice-president verheugen has announced, namely to supplement this very general programme, this 'one size fits all' programme, with programmes tailored to the individual needs of the individual. i have read that the commission reserves the right to present a communication identifying the most relevant challenges for each member state. i believe that is the way forward and i would like to have some clarification on this objective from the commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, a united parliament has made a difference. this directive would have been completely empty without us pushing for the relevant issues. i cannot go into all the details, but having a work plan, energy as a priority and many other issues mean we did a good job. now, commissioner, you have to do your job. you do not even have two people out of the 20 000 european commission civil servants working on this issue. commissioner, we need a crash team for market transformation of all these appliances; integrating minimum standards, labelling, public procurement, and taking the initiative to discuss with china, india, brazil and others, with regard to them also raising their minimum standards. this is crucial for climate change and for the future of energy resources.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, given the circumstances - that is to say, i have two minutes - i will only speak about the stability pact and say that the existence of a political agreement in the council to rearrange certain aspects of the pact is good news. the luxembourg presidency can boast of a success which was not a matter of course. that said, this reform agreement leads to a rather paradoxical situation, because, although the new formula pact contains very sensible innovations, particularly as regards the preventive aspect, it must be admitted that it only generates mixed support. in order to overcome the reluctance, the essential task must be tackled first, namely to restore confidence and credibility to a pact that has been abused for too long. there are still too many areas of doubt to prevent the quarrels over interpretation from getting worse and allowing everyone to interpret the rules as they please. there are still too many doubts about the commitment of the member states to a body of principles which they have set themselves. it is first of all the commission, mr president, which must clarify the matter by inserting the changes in principle decided by the council into the 1997 regulations, which form the backbone of the pact. this proposal is particularly important in these circumstances, since it requires further clarification. i shall confine myself to two examples. what concrete commitments will the preventive part of the pact, which is the bargaining chip for the relaxations imposed at other levels, lead to? how can the reiterated demand for simplicity, transparency and fairness in the excessive deficit procedure be reconciled in the texts with the sophistication of the mechanisms that are emerging? as far as trust and credibility are concerned, it is naturally up to the member states to be accountable and to act accordingly. even the most sympathetic observers will have noticed that the debate on reform of the pact has mostly been reduced to prudential pleading and not to discussions tinged with a minimum of objectivity. i must say, mr president, that this abhorrent attitude has had a devastating psychological effect: not only has the principle of equal treatment between member states suffered grievously, but the very foundations of a community of law have also been shaken.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spring summit was a success. the presidency deserves our congratulations for having reached a worthy compromise on the stability pact and for having relaunched the lisbon strategy. our union is in a strange situation. we are the world's leading exporter and the world's leading market for the rest of the world. our union is a haven of peace, an attractive political entity to which more and more countries want to join. at the same time, we are practicing a kind of self-flagellation: we are complacent about the predicted decline of the house of europe. but all the facts contradict this pessimistic narrative. our europe, seen from the outside, is a model of well-being. it combines a high standard of living with social and environmental standards that are rarely exceeded. europe creates jobs: 6.5 million in four years. nevertheless, the unemployment rate remains too high in some large countries. yes, our growth is lower than china's. but an economy that accounts for nearly a quarter of world output is growing more slowly than a new economy that has experienced a century of stagnation. with a growth rate of only 2%, our union is growing every year by the economic weight of taiwan. the prevailing narrative is that europe is lagging behind the united states in terms of competitiveness and productivity. a careful analysis shows that the us productivity gains come mainly from certain service sectors which, like wholesale trade, retail trade, real estate and financial intermediation, are in no way in direct competition with the same european sectors. on the other hand, europe is lagging behind, really behind, in the semiconductor and office machinery sectors. surprisingly enough, our companies have productive advantages for communications and it services. europe outperforms the us in 37 out of 56 economic sectors. it is true that europe is lagging behind in the field of research, but it is mainly the private sector that is to blame: while 80% of the 1.2 million american researchers work for the private sector, only 48% of the 1 million european researchers are employed by the private sector. the lisbon strategy can and must provide answers to all these questions. to achieve more, the union needs a favourable macroeconomic framework. the reinforced stability pact, by allowing a public spending policy responsive to economic cycles and by promoting the quality of investment, will support growth. stability is indeed a public good. but the union, and especially the euro area, has never been so stable. there's no inflation, there's a strong currency and historically low interest rates. we need more growth, more domestic demand, especially in some large countries. the fact that britain, sweden and denmark are growing faster than the euro zone, even with higher interest rates, should make the european central bank think. the socialists support the president of the council, who is a leading member of the european people's party, when he reminds the european central bank that it is solely responsible for monetary policy, but that governments are responsible for the conduct of european economic policy. here, too, there must be a "separation of church and state". (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the greens do not want a europe which is recklessly putting at risk our social and environmental achievements, part of our european identity. the european citizens do not want that either. we therefore welcome the clear language of the luxembourg presidency of the eu council and its commitment to the economic, environmental and social triad. the final declaration of the spring summit is a good piece of europe and it has clearly pointed out the limits of the barroso commission in its neoliberal course. but after the solemn declarations, concrete action must now follow, in two areas: in the field of environmental protection, we finally need a european effort to combat climate change, and this must be reflected both in the financial perspective and in the european investment bank. investing in public transportation, investing in building renovation, investing in heating networks, is reducing climate damage and our dependence on oil. the summit did not deal much with the problem of oil and its braking effect on european growth. in social policy this means that we finally need a directive to protect public services. it should be one of the priorities in the remaining months of the luxembourg presidency that we also get this public services directive on the road, because otherwise the spirit of bolkestein will continue to hang over europe.
mr president, i wanted to propose an oral amendment to this amendment by mr alvaro, namely to add also that we should no longer work on tuesdays and wednesdays so that we could have money sent home. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to explain my vote in favour of romania. i have the impression that some people have taken a whole people hostage, because they have been more respectful of their internal political situation, or even of the respective institutional problems we have, when it is a question of supporting romania's efforts towards democracy. these efforts will be facilitated by europe, which will have to play a very important role. secondly, i would like to say to the romanians that within the european people's party a large number of members are on their side and support the efforts to establish a genuine christian democracy in romania. i would like to pay tribute to the initiator of christian democracy in romania, cornelia coposu, who, after the revolution, founded this party. i would like to say that romania's accession will be a remarkable cultural enrichment for europe.
in writing. i think the european union was never meant to be a club for the rich. i am in favour of future enlargements. bulgaria and romania clearly have their place in the union. but i deplore the way in which the governments, particularly those of chirac, blair, schroeder and others, are dealing with these problems. big talk and sewn pockets seem to be the motto. we have just had enlargement without any prior deepening. now some states want to impose new enlargements on us with less money for the budget of europe. i voted yes, however, in order not to confuse my protests with those of those opposed to enlargement.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the outcome of the european council, but on the stability pact, i would like to make the following point: i deplored that the debate on the reform of the pact was often reduced to pro-domo advocacy and not to objective discussions. i pointed out that this attitude has had devastating psychological effects. not only has the principle of equal treatment between member states suffered, but the foundation of a community of law has also been shaken. the distrust surrounding this reform is a consequence of this behaviour. reaffirming the intangible nature of rules decided upon jointly would have been more useful than the triumphant and tiresome declarations by various heads of state at the end of the european council. the question is whether everyone is aware that we are dealing with the management of a common good, the single currency. i would like to recall what i said last autumn: i prefer a reformed pact to one that is dying because it is more respected. to remain in these allegorical terms, i will note that today the pact is doing better, but that it is a very weak convalescent who would not be able to withstand further trauma.
i have to say, madam president, if we are to win over the citizens of europe to the european project, the eu must not become a self-service shop in matters of social and labour law. there can be no welfare state à la carte. the opt-out clause which currently exists in the maximum working hours must therefore be abolished, and which has already led to 700 000 contracts of employment in the uk alone where the 48-hour working time is not respected. the present compromise is a good compromise, partly because it gives the trade unions the opportunity to intervene here through the social partnership. i would like to conclude by making an appeal to the friends and colleagues of the gue group. we had a vote in the last parliament on the tobin tax. we would have won it if you had voted! be careful that your votes do not lead to the hardliners winning the conservatives on wednesday.
in writing. i voted against all the amendments in the maaten report which aimed at over-regulation. the public must be informed about the quality of bathing water and its quality must be improved. but there is also the matter of trusting in the intelligence and judgment of humans, especially when it comes to recreational activities.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on improving port security because our parliament, as usual, has unnecessarily burdened and complicated procedures which are in any case subsidiarity-related.
in writing. we need a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications to ensure freedom of establishment and the free provision of services in the single market without discrimination as regards the level of professional qualifications. this principle is not in dispute. we must avoid confusion with the famous proposal for a 'bolkenstein' directive, which aims to create a genuine single market for services and which we will be discussing here in the coming months to amend where it is needed. as regards the amendments submitted to us in the draft recommendation for second reading, i share the concern of the craft circles in my country, who fear a devaluation of the vocational qualifications required at the establishment level, which is incompatible with the lisbon strategy and the importance of training emphasized therein. the legitimate concern to make a genuine single market work must never lead to a leveling-down. it is in the well-understood interests of businesses and consumers to ensure quality products and services. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments which are precisely intended to strengthen legal certainty for economic operators.
in writing. i believe that the 1993 directive on the organisation of working time needs to be amended to better reflect the new realities. but it will have to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers, give companies greater flexibility in the management of working time, and allow for a better balance between work and family life. it sounds like you're trying to square the circle. i believe that our contribution should allow the reference periods to be extended. i am in favour of annualisation, which may also be of interest to workers and which will make it possible to cope with fluctuations in demand, particularly seasonal ones. as regards the problem of guarding time, i could have lived with the commission's proposal which respects the principle of subsidiarity because it states that the inactive period of guarding time is not considered as working time, unless national law or a collective agreement provides otherwise. finally, i consider that the maintenance of the opt-out clause is incompatible with the objective of the directive.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of integrated guidelines for three years will in principle promote better coordination of economic policies. the new integrated exercise will eliminate the 300 annual reports required of the member states. in future, there will be only one synthetic document per country. this appropriation of the lisbon strategy by the social partners and national parliaments will strengthen european democracy. however, these guidelines are too general and do not take into account the significant differences between countries. the commission should therefore be encouraged to present a communication identifying the most relevant challenges for each state. a differentiated approach is also needed for sectoral economic problems. the commission's task is not an easy one. the complexity of economic, social and environmental challenges does not allow for simple answers. the enlargement of the union has increased its heterogeneity. the increasing technicality of legislative work does not make communication with citizens easy. as the debates on the constitutional treaty have shown, the architecture of europe is poorly understood. community jargon misses the concerns of many citizens. europe is increasingly burdened with all kinds of ills. the debate on the predicted decline of europe is not, however, factual. from the outside, the union is not only the most successful peace initiative in history, it is the political entity where human rights are best safeguarded. our social market economy produces a high standard of living while maintaining social and environmental standards that are among the best in the world. of course, europe could do better, that is the aim of the lisbon strategy. in three years, the union has created 6.5 million additional jobs without, however, succeeding in curbing unemployment. economic growth remains too low, particularly in germany, france and italy. nevertheless, the union is the world's largest exporter and the most important market for the rest of the world. the union's current account remains balanced while the united states is sinking into an external and internal deficit. a company that accounts for nearly a quarter of world trade is clearly competitive. to be competitive, you must have better productivity than your competitors. a high standard of living is the product of high productivity and high employment, but it is not in itself a measure of competitiveness. the difference in average per capita income between americans and europeans does not indicate a fall in the income of europeans but an excessive inflation of the income of the richest 20% of americans. in europe, the fight for greater productivity is inseparable from the fight for a fairer distribution of the fruits of growth, for greater social cohesion and effective environmental protection. it is not by chance that the nordic countries offer a high level of social and environmental protection. the resulting high public expenditure does not prevent the nordic countries from moving up the world hierarchy in terms of performance and innovation. the competitive situation in europe is far from disastrous. an analysis by the commission services shows that two thirds of the growth in us productivity is in the services sector, including wholesale trade, retail trade, real estate and financial intermediation. in these sectors there is no direct competition between americans and europeans. europe has done better than the united states in both the primary and secondary sectors. it outperforms the americans in 37 of the 56 sectors surveyed. the industrial lead of the united states is undeniable in the semiconductor and office machinery sectors. in the 'communications' and 'information services' sectors, labour productivity is higher in europe. the european backlog is mainly limited to certain high-tech sectors: ict, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, gmos. we are lagging behind in research. in absolute terms, the united states spends about $110 billion more annually than europe, or the equivalent of the union's budget. the european industry is the one lagging behind: 80% of the 1.3 million american researchers work for the private sector, compared with only 48% of the 1 million european researchers. the integrated guidelines will need to be refined over the coming three-year period. the eurozone currently has a positive macroeconomic environment: low inflation, a strong currency, very low interest rates. yet the three non-eurozone countries are experiencing higher growth even though they are paying higher interest rates for monetary independence. eight of the ten new countries are experiencing appreciable growth but other structural problems. the guidelines, mr president, must take greater account of this diversity of situations and problems.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the rapporteurs for their speeches on the three reports which we are going to discuss in an integrated way, and i welcome them on behalf of the commission. on 12 april, vice-president verheugen, commissioner špidla and i presented to you the integrated package of guidelines for the revision and implementation of the lisbon strategy, integrating the two instruments based on the treaty - the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines - into a single communication, a single speech and a single strategy. the commission considers it essential to maintain this integrated approach. the two treaty-based instruments - the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines - have the same objective, albeit from different angles and at different levels: to increase our growth, to increase employment levels and, on that basis, to deepen social cohesion, the social model that is part of the lisbon strategy objectives and social and environmental sustainable development - another of the lisbon strategy's major elements - and, of course, all this in a way that improves our competitiveness and our capacity to continue growing. the commission's proposal is therefore a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i shall refer, in the time that remains before my colleague mr špidla speaks, to mr goebbels' report on the broad guidelines of economic policy, which mr verheugen was unfortunately unable to attend today. mr goebbels draws attention in the report to the excessive pessimism that exists about the european economy among traders, investors and consumers. i fully share that diagnosis and that concern about the lack of trust. the european economy is now in a position to grow more than we are. in particular, in some of the largest national economies in the euro area, we should be growing more and for that we need to increase investor and consumer confidence, because the objective conditions are there. in addition to a problem of confidence, we have a problem of disparity of situations, which, since we decided to have a single monetary policy, presents us with a challenge on which both the commission and the council and, in particular, the eurogroup are working: how to respond from the framework of fiscal discipline - we will discuss in a few days in this parliament the reform of the stability and growth pact - and from the coordination of economic policies, from the broad economic policy guidelines, to this disparity of situations so that, by applying recommendations adapted to the specific circumstances of each of the national economies, the euro area as a whole and the european union as a whole can coordinate their economic policies and we can all get a better result. we shall discuss this disparity of situations at a forthcoming eurogroup meeting on the basis of a report which the commission has been asked to present. but we are also interested in each country defining its own priorities and thereby increasing ownership, hence the importance of the national programmes which will be adopted at national level in the autumn. if there is one thing that the first five years of implementation of the lisbon strategy have taught us, it is that everyone says they share the objectives and share the strategies, but not everyone has implemented the recommendations that have emerged from this common analysis of objectives and strategies. that is why these national plans are so important and will be discussed again by the commission and the council, and certainly by parliament. that is why - and i echo one of the comments in mr goebbels' report - in order to increase ownership at national level and to make the debate in the states a political debate in which governments and parliaments define political priorities and instruments for political action, the commission, in this year, when presenting this integrated package, has not included the guidelines at national level. but now, between june and july, we are going to hold preparatory meetings for the drawing up of the national programmes in each of the 25 member states, and at these meetings the commission services, on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the college of commissioners and discussed in this parliament and also in the council, will of course propose to each of the member states a series of suggestions on national priorities to contribute to the most effective drawing up of these programmes, which i hope will really be the instrument that will enable us to achieve the objectives we share with the report by mr goebbels and the reports by mrs mato and mrs oomen-ruijten.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the committee on employment and social affairs, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, for her excellent work on the social agenda, and mrs mato adrover for the quality and proactive preparation of the european parliament's opinion on the guidelines. i welcome the fact that the european parliament's position on the guiding principles of employment policy is in line with the new focus of the lisbon process on growth and employment and with the three priorities of employment policy, which are to involve more people in the labour market, to be adaptable and to invest in human capital. ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the views of those who feel that the european social model is a failed model, that europe is the environment it is losing. of course, there is much to do and much to strive for to develop our model further, to be competitive, to be up to date, but if we compare our basic parameters with other comparable regions of the world, europe is certainly not bad. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the amendments proposed by the european parliament are not intended to change the structure of the guidelines, but rather to give greater emphasis to action, on the one hand on the specific problems of certain groups such as women, young and older workers or disabled people, and on the other hand on issues considered to be key such as partnership, the promotion of new sources of employment, the fight against accidents at work or the balance between flexibility and job security. the commission welcomes the substance of the european parliament's opinion and will endeavour to ensure that it is reflected in the final text to be adopted by the social affairs council on 2 and 3 june. in particular, the commission will make every effort to ensure that the spirit of these amendments proposed by the european parliament is taken into account in this discussion. on the one hand, the commission will support the revision of the recitals in order to highlight the lack of progress in reforms over the last five years and to enhance the importance of social cohesion and the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy. i think that is the essence of the lisbon strategy, the awareness that there is not just one dimension, but that there are three dimensions and that they need to be sought and taken into account in every other policy. on the other hand, as regards the specific guiding principles, i can assure you that the commission will support greater involvement in partnership, gender equality, youth issues and new sources of jobs. however, the commission does not want to see the creation of a specific guideline for the prevention of occupational accidents, as this would be outside the framework set out in the european council conclusions. now let me say a few words about the social agenda. its central role, as an integral part of both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy, is unquestionable, as it sets out the main lines of action needed to progress towards more quality jobs, a more united and balanced society. recognising this, the european council at its spring meeting welcomed the social agenda, stressing that it contributes to the achievement of the lisbon strategy by strengthening the european social model based on the pursuit of full employment and greater social cohesion. growth and jobs are immediate priorities, but improving competitiveness and growth are means, not ends in themselves. growth alone does not guarantee solidarity or social sustainability. we should also make political decisions to ensure that our different objectives are mutually supportive. this summary document is one of the steps along this road. that's the approach of the social agenda. in this process, it aims to contribute to addressing the main structural challenges facing the european union, relating to demographic change, global competition and technological development and innovation. a deliberate decision has been made to present the commission's social and employment objectives in a different way from the previous social agenda. the new agenda identifies the main problems, suggests ways forward for new considerations on the next steps and envisages the development of an open and transparent policy that ensures the participation of all stakeholders. it is not a detailed and exhaustive catalogue of measures, since it would be illogical to set out now the measures we should be taking in four or five years' time. it is, however, right to set out the main objectives and strategic objectives. this also means that the choice of the political and technical instrument need not be determined from the outset. for action at community level, we have a wide range of instruments at our disposal: legislation, the open method of coordination, financial instruments, in particular the european social fund, social dialogue, etc. the choice of the most efficient instrument or the combination of several instruments must not be subject to any preconceived notions and there must be no prior preference for one instrument over others. legislation will nevertheless remain a key tool, but there are several reasons why we should not rely on legislative instruments alone. we all know that implementation and consistency are far from ideal in many cases. in some areas, such as anti-discrimination, priority should therefore be given at this stage to implementing what already exists and is not bad from a legislative and value-oriented point of view. i will not go into detail on the individual points, but i am prepared for your questions and look forward to further discussion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on these guidelines for employment policies, i am saddened that our most original ideas are not reflected in the final report of the committee on employment and social affairs. in my view, i had emphasized the promotion of the diversification of career choices for young girls because only by increasing their employability could we improve women's chances on the labour market. we also advocated positive action to improve the employment of women. we had also not forgotten the selfemployed and their caring spouses, who represent millions of invisible workers, especially women, who are ignored in the statistics on women's employment rates. it is absurd to forget them and not to guarantee them social security cover and a share in the profits of the company by offering them, among other things, a framework status to put an end to their precariousness. this idea was endorsed by this parliament in 1997 in my report on the situation of the caring spouse of the selfemployed, but it has not yet been taken up by the commission. the report on the examination provided an opportunity to remind him that it was regrettable that he had not done so. another idea i thought was to promote 'time-selected' and parttime voluntary work. all these ideas have not found favour with the employment committee and that is regrettable. perhaps the european commission will take them into account? i hope so, commissioner, because if we consider that the proposals adopted unanimously by parliament date back to 1997 and that in 2005 nothing has yet happened to amend the 1986 directive on equal treatment for selfemployed persons and assisting spouses, the time may seem a bit long.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would simply like to remind you, as rapporteur, what is at stake in this second reading of a statistical regulation, which aims to establish a european framework for the compilation and transmission of quarterly non-financial accounts by institutional sector. it will be an important tool for the conduct of monetary policy in the euro area - i hope you all are committed to the single currency - and for monitoring the economic policies of the member states. at first reading last year, on 30 march 2004, the european parliament had proposed a single amendment which seeks to clarify the fifth recital. mr president, i would like to make it clear that these accounts of the european institutions will be integrated into the accounts of the area concerned, the eurozone or the european union, as the case may be. the council, which took a long time, more than a year, also introduced an amendment relating exclusively to article 2. a common position was finally adopted on 8 march 2005 thanks to the luxembourg presidency's diligence. it is nevertheless astonishing that the council, for such a regulation, with only one amendment for parliament and one amendment by the council, took a year before submitting the common position to us. as the single currency has been in place for years, the european union needs to have the legal tools to collect subannual statistics covering all transactions in each of the major sectors. our amendment was adopted by the council and i propose that the common position be adopted, as unanimously recommended by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, so that this regulation can enter into force. the date is 1 june 2005.
the rapporteur. mr president, if mr hökmark and the european people's party do not want this addition, i ask the house to vote against mr hökmark's amendment.
in writing. i fear that the european parliament has been foolish in succumbing to the imperatives of so-called 'political correctness'. the fatf has issued recommendations on 'politically exposed persons'. it is natural to fight against embezzlement, which is sometimes practiced at the highest level of government. the european union must implement these recommendations, but it must not go beyond them, as this could create further difficulties. the definition of 'politically exposed persons' which has been adopted surprises me in its lack of rigor. to say that it is a natural person holding an important public office, his family members or even close relatives is to go so far as to ask who will not be affected. the fact that we do not distinguish between community and non-community citizens is contrary to all our principles which are the basis of community law. a member state of the union may not be regarded as a third country by another member state. the econ committee has made the most appropriate proposal on this subject. i am very sorry that it has not been heard, because the fight against bleaching cannot be accommodated by a lack of clarity which will only lead to dispersion and inefficiency. i voted against the nassauer report for the reasons explained above.
in writing. i am opposed today to the inclusion of wine in the proposal for a regulation on food claims, which provides in article 4 for the prohibition of any nutrition and health claim for drinks with an alcohol content of more than 1.2%. wine is already covered by very strict labelling regulations. moreover, the benefits of moderate wine consumption have already been recognized by scientists. wine is a food, it's a tonic, it's a nerve balancer, it's a digestive, it's an anti-allergic, and it may prove to be an effective preventive against vascular disease, cancer and dementia. you will agree that it would be a pity if we could not emphasize these benefits to the consumer and make him understand that wine - like any other food - consumed in moderation can contribute to a healthy diet and good health. finally, the consumption of wine is part of a millenary european tradition, each country having adopted it according to its own food habits. the ban on claims for all european countries would be tantamount to disregarding the relationship of each eu country to this traditional product and could harm a major european sector which is currently experiencing an unprecedented crisis.
the commission has already done so. i congratulate mrs schierhuber on her ability to present us with conviction and perseverance, indeed with tenacity, a balanced compromise which the council is to approve under the luxembourg presidency. since it is essential, following the 2003 cap reform, that agricultural and forestry production be maintained, especially in the previously disadvantaged areas, i have advocated that the current demarcation of disadvantaged areas be maintained for the time being and that it be changed only on the basis of a comprehensive study. it is not possible that compensation payments in such areas will simply disappear because the current definition would no longer apply. this would be a real disaster, especially for agriculture in my own country, socially, economically and ecologically, because unfortunately 96% of the agricultural area is naturally disadvantaged. i am therefore relieved that my amendments have been accepted. this is not only in the interests of farmers; but without them, there is no rural area, which today still accounts for over 50% of the eu's total population and 90% of its territory. the results of the french referendum in rural areas should be a wake-up call to all those who think the common agricultural policy is too expensive. it is much more expensive to fight poverty and crime in the big urban areas if you also displace the rural population there. the promotion of rural areas and the preservation of our family farming are well-spent funds in the european union. i must of course make it clear - because my proposals in this area were not accepted - that beekeeping is also part of agriculture and that it is therefore also appropriate to promote beekeeping in rural areas, which is very much at risk. i hope that will be taken into account.
mr president, the union should now demonstrate its capacity to act by adopting ambitious financial perspectives. the presidency's proposals, even if they break through the 1% barrier, are still timid. allowing the union to spend an additional eur 40 billion over seven years in absolute terms is disappointing. let's imagine for a moment that all of that money goes to research. the americans are currently spending €100 billion more each year than the europeans on this: €40 billion over seven years, which would not even be half of the current annual gap, although the private sector will obviously have to fill a large part of this gap. europe is out of business. the political gnomes who govern us are allowing the far-right and far-left demagogues, including the national socialists and other sovereignty-loving groups, to demolish the european dream. our union needs more solidarity, and therefore more own resources, in order to break the petty accounting of net balances and returns. i have proposed a european levy of one cent on every litre of petrol, diesel and kerosene sold in the union. no consumer, no economic actor would be subject to such a tax, which would bring in more than 40 billion over seven years. we must dare to break free from the shackles of national egoism, dare to be more european. the precise location of the benefits and costs of common policies is impossible in an internal market. it is obvious that the states with the most developed economies will benefit most from any surplus of common growth.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to compliment the rapporteur, mr rosati, for his very clear and accurate analysis of the commission proposal. i am very pleased to note that this report strongly supports the proposal of the commission, the aim of which is to improve the functioning of the internal market in this area, both for citizens and for trade. the proposal concerns the so-called ‘duty paid movements’ of excise products between member states. while it is true that this type of intra-community movement represents only a small proportion of the total intra-community movements of excisable products, it must nevertheless be stressed that they mainly involve the european citizens and small and medium-sized companies. for the european citizens the proposal aims to clarify the existing rules on the movement of goods from one member state to another. indeed, from the number of questions that the commission receives daily on this issue, it clearly appears that the present rules, including the value of the ‘indicative limits’, cause some confusion. the proposal provides clarification on this issue and also enhances the possibilities for citizens to purchase duty-paid goods in the member states of their choice, without having to declare those goods and pay duty on them in their own member state. that will better align the system to the principles of a real internal market. for goods moved for commercial purposes, the commission proposes to maintain the basic principle that excise duty is payable in the member state of destination, but to harmonise and simplify the procedures to be followed in that member state. that will especially benefit small and medium-sized companies such as small wine traders who try to commercialise their products directly in other member states. today, the complex rules, which differ considerably between member states, often deter those companies from doing business in other member states. having regard to the importance of these issues for both citizens and traders, i hope that the positive tone of the report on the table today will be reflected in the vote tomorrow.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, my group should approve mr rosati's report by a large majority. i will not hide from you, however, that the text voted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs raises a number of difficulties. the expression of divergent interests has led to a somewhat skewed overall structure with certain inconsistencies and even contradictions. once again, we see how tax matters in the european union remain particularly sensitive. it would therefore be desirable for us to deal with them by strictly adhering to the principles we have been teaching. the aim of the commission's proposal is to make progress towards the completion of the internal market, to promote the free movement of excise goods and, finally, to go in the direction of the consumer by allowing him to buy wherever he pleases. in these circumstances, i can only be surprised at the proposals of some of my colleagues which would lead to a situation contrary to this logic, even if we were to return to a situation prior to that which has prevailed since 1993. all of this is surprising and even disturbing. but let us return to the question of principle. the logic of the internal market clearly requires that the final consumer pays excise duties in the member state of purchase for products intended for private consumption. the existence of indicative limits fixing the maximum quantity of foodstuffs which can be transported from one member state to another has become too rigid an obstacle, which has led the commission to propose their abolition. that is a good suggestion, which the committee on economic and monetary affairs, unfortunately, only partially follows, since it agrees with the principle of their abolition, but refers in an amendment to the same limits as if they still existed. another example of inconsistency is that the consumer would no longer have to transport the goods himself in order to benefit from the rule of paying excise duty in the country of purchase. this is also a significant step forward. in the case of distance selling, however, the rules of the country of destination would continue to apply. the problem is that the boundary between the two cases is not always clear and that treating them differently will, i am sure, lead to many practical difficulties. i therefore proposed amendments to remove the distinction between on-site and distance selling, but the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not follow my suggestion. i gave up because i was told that the minds were not mature and that it would be a revolution. but it would simply be a matter of sticking to the logic of the internal market. the european union is a very complex undertaking, and we are living through it these days. we cannot continue to encourage these inconsistencies because the european citizens are very critical of them.
mr president, at our last session we commemorated the 60th anniversary of the end of the war. ironically, we are debating today a europe in crisis, because of the lack of support from the citizens for a treaty which is meant to confirm that our countries are united for better and for worse, a treaty signed by the democratically elected heads of state, acting by delegation of the sovereign, that is to say the peoples of our countries. the european parliament has already said 'yes' to this constitution and let me say, mr president, that europe is not only france and the netherlands and britain, it is also all the others. changing the text would be disrespectful to almost half the population of the european union, which has already ratified it. as regards the consultation process, i think it will also be up to national officials to decide what procedures to follow. of course, it will be up to the presidency-in-office to show not only skill and sensitivity but also firmness. what is needed to convince the citizens is action, financial prospects which will prove that europe can revive the economy and create jobs through its investments in major infrastructure or through galileo, which could create 100 000 new jobs and is waiting for a signal from the council to get started. it will also be necessary to communicate faith and enthusiasm in the european project, in its message of solidarity and humanism. in fact, this crisis is also the crisis of democracy. europe can only be achieved if citizens follow. delegation of power is often synonymous with disinterest and we have seen the information gaps about european policy. we must therefore inform people better, and concentrate on the essentials of our common policy, on the welfare of our citizens and on social europe. mr president, the 'no' vote also meant the rejection of a europe where the laws of the market and competition prevail, of a liberal europe which has no regard for workers, and i say this to those who wanted to go over to the 72-hour week.
mr president, in a democracy, the majority vote must always be accepted and respected, even if the majority is not necessarily right. the french and dutch votes are final. however, it does not convey a clear message. in fact, it is a multiple "no", with compound and sometimes opposite motivations. there is no common denominator between the far-right demagogues and the far-left demagogues. the national socialists, who hoped to unite all the discontented, would soon learn that fabius rhymes with pyrrhus. what can i do? since there is no plan b, since no one knows what improvement would be likely to transform such contradictory and heterogeneous "no's" into a frank and massive "yes", the only possible outcome is to prove the march by walking. the next summit must approve financial perspectives to enable the institutions to function normally. just as the eurogroup elected a president for two years in advance, governments should implement other advances in the treaty on the basis of voluntary agreement. the commission should therefore consult national parliaments on any future legislative initiative. the 'no' vote will not stop globalisation, international competition or relocations. the world's largest exporter cannot afford selfish protectionism. new solidarities must therefore be developed not only between europeans but also with the many countries that remain outside of globalisation. the accession of romania and bulgaria will take place on the basis of the treaty of nice. even turkey could join us on the basis of this treaty. of course, the union could function better under a treaty that is now broken. but since 'no' is not the answer, we must show - and this is difficult - that europe is moving forward, while at the same time striving to satisfy our fellow citizens better through more imaginative and supportive policies.
president of the council. the council thanks the honourable member, mrs hennicot, for the attention with which she is following this matter, which concerns us all, especially those of us who have children. the council attaches great importance to the protection of young people against alcohol, given their vulnerability. as the honourable member has pointed out, the council adopted a recommendation on 5 june 2001 calling in particular on the member states to put in place measures to curb the production of alcoholic beverages for children and adolescents and the targeted advertising of such beverages to young people. on 5 june 2001, the council adopted conclusions on a strategy to reduce alcohol-related harm. the committee called on the commission to submit proposals for a comprehensive community strategy in this field, which would complement national policies and set a timetable for various actions. following this recommendation, the council did not stand idly by. however, as it proved difficult to clearly identify alcopops and to target the measures that could be taken, it preferred to follow a more comprehensive policy, in line with the above-mentioned conclusions of 2001. it was thus confirmed that alcohol occupies an important place in the european community's health strategy and in the community programme on public health for 2003-08, adopted in co-decision with your parliament in september 2002. in particular, the programme has led to the establishment of projects, co-financed by the commission and the member states, designed to implement the 2001 recommendation and to prepare a community strategy on alcohol prevention. a working group of experts from the member states was also set up for this purpose. in june 2004, the council also adopted its conclusions on alcohol and young people, in which it recalled the invitation to the commission to report to it in 2005 on the implementation by the member states of the proposed measures. it also supported the commission's work to develop a comprehensive strategy on alcohol consumption, stressing that, within the framework of this strategy, particular attention should be paid to the problem of alcohol consumption among young people. finally, at the council meeting of 6 december 2004, this invitation to the commission was once again renewed. by the end of 2005, the commission will in principle be able to present, alongside the evaluation report requested in the 2001 recommendation, a communication on a comprehensive strategy on alcohol consumption. upon receipt of this document, the council will begin its work as soon as possible. it is understood that these initiatives, as such, will not be able to specifically address the problem of alcopops. in the long term, however, they will enable a community framework to be established to provide all citizens, especially young people, with better information on the dangers of alcohol abuse.
i am grateful to the council for dealing with the issue of alcoholism among young people. i think the health problems - alcohol plus the high sugar content of the beverages in question - are particularly serious: i am thinking of the increase in diabetes among young people and the problem of obesity. i do not understand why the council is not doing more to tackle the problem of labelling, because many parents do not know that their children are drinking alcohol when they are drinking what they think is lemonade.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in our union is too serious to be lost in legal arguments about the stability pact. twenty-five heads of state or government recognised the need to apply the stability pact with flexibility to allow for adjustments to business cycles. they voted for the commission's proposals without amendments and allowed the renewed pact to enter into force quickly. our parliament must not be more catholic than the pope. we must stop making stability into a dogma. stability is necessary. no one can live forever on credit, not even americans. however, the latter have a more pragmatic approach to tax policy, they are aware of deficits and growth. the eurozone is sinking into stagnation. economic policy is not an exact science. it is not enough to have a balanced budget to have growth, to generate more jobs. as the union seems to have no other policy to propose than budgetary austerity, the people of europe are revolting. the union must take a step forward, stimulate demand and encourage investment. so-called structural reforms that reduce the purchasing power of employees will not fill the order books of producers. the stability pact was invented to prevent the eurozone states from over-stretching the capital markets. too much government borrowing would raise interest rates, penalize private investors and have an inflationary effect. but the opposite has happened. despite repeated failures by some states to abide by the rules of the pact, the euro has become a strong currency, inflation remains low and interest rates are at their lowest. the right seems to believe that the stability pact has been successful, despite the failures of a few important countries. the epp and the liberals voted an amendment to my report on the broad guidelines of economic policy which reads as follows: 'whereas the stability and growth pact has helped to maintain a low level of inflation and historically low levels of interest rates, ...' in the light of this profession of faith ignoring the role of the european central bank, the breaches of the stability pact would not have the macroeconomic repercussions announced. but enough of the joking! the truth is that europe's economic situation is much better from the outside. the union is the world's largest exporter and the world's largest market for the rest of the world. it is an economic giant which remains highly competitive. we cannot compete with the chinese for t-shirts and jeans, but our consumers benefit from this free boost in their purchasing power. at the same time, europe is moving ahead in the area of high value-added products. take the automotive industry, for example. while the bonds issued by general motors and ford are downgraded to junk bonds, the european industry was, according to the latest statistics, the world leader in the number of cars produced, 17.2 million in europe, including 14.6 million in the union of fifteen. the united states, the home of mass production, produced only 4.5 million cars in 2003, including a significant number of japanese cars produced in the united states. i could give you many more examples. my conclusion is clear. let us stop being pessimistic about europe and give the europeans, especially the consumers, new courage! the high savings rates in france, germany and italy indicate an unjustified fear of the future. the conduct of economic policy requires stability, but above all growth and also psychological action to restore confidence. we must therefore send a much more optimistic message to our people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the final summit of the luxembourg presidency of the council did not bring the success that this house, with its overwhelming majority, would have wished for. we all know what was decided in brussels and, above all, what was not decided. i would like to make two points on behalf of the luxembourg meps: the first is a message of appreciation for the excellent work of the luxembourg presidency in general and that of president juncker in particular. if individual heads of state and government are prepared to jeopardize the progress of european unification and the success of enlargement for reasons of utterly exaggerated, arrogant and purely self-serving considerations, then no summit decisions in favour of european progress can be expected. i do not want to go into the consequences of this for the future of the european union. but i want to make one thing clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my second message is this: as a survivor of the second world war, and as an elderly man who can now work side by side with colleagues from the central and eastern european countries in this parliament for the european cause, i can only repeat the words of jean-claude juncker: i am ashamed of the last european council. i am ashamed that some western european leaders are clearly unable to deal with the question of eastward enlargement and do not understand that the european union is not a continental grocery store. i am ashamed that, in the second year since enlargement, we have not been able to convince the people between tallinn and ljubljana with positive impulses that their sacrifice, their achievements and their patience over the last fifteen years have not been in vain. we should all be ashamed of the behaviour of some of the summit participants. if the founding fathers had acted as they did, there would have been no common europe, no peace, freedom and prosperity for half a billion europeans. europe will change and develop, as it did after the french national assembly rejected the european defence community. i can only hope that the changes which the continent will undergo and will experience in the years to come will not be characterized by the petty and selfish attitudes which caused the failure of the last european council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency does not decide. the luxembourg presidency has done a good job. it has made many constructive proposals and has managed to reach honourable compromises on many issues. the lisbon strategy is being revived and national parliaments are finally being made aware of this major european objective. the stability pact will be smarter, because it is adapted to economic cycles. the broad guidelines of economic policies and the employment guidelines are adopted for three years. the luxembourg presidency has been able to move the union forward on subjects as diverse as increased commitment to the millennium development goals, more targeted support for rural development, significant progress in police cooperation and security at the external borders, etc. the very positive record of the presidency is being clouded by the festival of national egos celebrated at the weekend by a head of state and some heads of government. i have been able to say to this house that the union is currently suffering from a severe shortage of statesmen. it's run by political gnomes who are busy jealously guarding their little treasure. very few leaders have a real political vision of the future of europe. jean-claude juncker is not one of them. he's an architect and a plumber. politics has sometimes pitted me against my prime minister, but i sympathized with him when he confessed his shame at the petty arrogance of some of his rich-country peers. yes, europe is suffering from its internal contradictions. there are those who want more political integration and those who want only a single market. europe is in crisis. etymologically, the greek word krisis means "decision". the time has come to decide: more europe or opt out. the luxembourg presidency has done its best to move the union forward, and it has done well in europe. in six months' time we shall be judging the new presidency, but tony blair will have to present us with something other than a pseudo-modernist speech on the need for structural reforms. yes, the world is moving. europe has to adapt. but any community without a strong link to employment, wages and productivity becomes unfair and ultimately impoverished. i just quoted carlos fuentes. the economy must remain at the service of social welfare, and solidarity must be the watchword of european policy. europe will be social or it will not be, madam president.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank luxembourg for its good and pragmatic work at the beginning of the eu presidency. i think that if we had more presidencies with a pro-european attitude and less narrow national thinking when a government is in charge, we would be helped a great deal. after the summit there are many negative voices and sentiments on the subject of europe. of course, we were in a hangover mood in the first few days, and i am glad that our prime minister is returning to his old form, yesterday in the luxembourg parliament and today here, and that we are aware that more than ever we really need to look forward and positively at this europe. the crisis is not so deep because more citizens are interested in the european issue than ever before. and these citizens want two things: they want to have a greater say and they want to see a different direction for european policy in practice. as regards the reorientation of european policy - and i see mr barroso looking forward to it - i think that after one year of your presidency of the commission, you should really consider how much your commission's decisions on bolkestein, the working time directive, reach and climate change help to create a positive mood in europe, or rather help us to only incite more citizens against this constitution. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council. we greens will work to get a 'yes' because europe is not the problem and this constitution is not the problem, it is the solution to our problem. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the council's refusal to take account of any amendment proposed by the european parliament is not only a cavalier act, it is also a breach of the spirit of the stability pact reform. the balanced result achieved by the luxembourg presidency provides for a more flexible procedure for excessive deficits, but at the same time it includes increased monitoring of budgetary positions, with the simple but common sense and truthful idea that saving during lean periods is appropriate to deal with lean periods. only the statement of this principle must be translated literally in the texts. that's where the real trouble is! after the unanimous agreement of the council, some member states seem to be breaking their word and are trying to reverse the special attention that should now be paid to public debt. it's a hateful signal, especially in these troubled times. the stability of the euro will suffer. in these circumstances, the rapporteur proposes nothing but to clarify the commitment made in the area of public debt. i can only support him in this, even though i have no complaint against the presidency, which is blameless in this matter.
"when the european commission takes initiatives to simplify, strengthen the legal base and codify community legislation, it can count on us. i welcome this initiative because it is community legislation on equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men, developed since 1975. despite its imperfections and poor application, this legislation has made a significant contribution to reducing discrimination against women, particularly in the workplace. as a member of a generation which has suffered from every possible and impossible form of discrimination, i appreciate the benefits of the community's equal treatment policy. of course, in addition to coding, it could be the subject of innovation. our demands for improvement have been set out here, also with regard to the selfemployed and the caring spouses. the rapporteur and i, together with other colleagues in my group, have been at pains to counteract the outrageous demands of certain extremists, demands which are counterproductive to the employment and equal opportunities for women which they claim to promote. our amendments are designed to avoid unduly delaying the adoption of this important legislation at second reading by aligning it with the council's general approach.'
president-in-office of the council. as the honourable member is certainly aware, the commission submitted an amended proposal regarding the revision of the organisation of the working time directive on 31 may 2005 following adoption of parliament’s opinion at first reading. this proposal was discussed by the council on 2 june. however, owing to the short period of time left for examination, the council was not in a position to assess all its implications. the council therefore instructed the committee of permanent representatives to examine the amendment proposal with a view to the council reaching an agreement as soon as possible.
i would like to know, mr minister, what is the british position on the opt-out. will you maintain your position in favour of opt-out or do you have alternatives?
member of the commission. first of all, i want to make it clear, mr davies, that what i said to you when we met in a very useful and very interesting meeting, i stand by that. i'll be back in september with proposals and a new essay. i am as sorry as you are that the implementation is delayed. we have already discussed this problem at length! but i did some research: in its flegt action plan, the european union states its commitment to undertake an analysis of the possibilities for additional measures, including the feasibility of legislation to control imports of illegally harvested timber into the european union. the progress of this work has been closely followed by parliament, which has invited the commission to propose such legislation. now, let's be clear: the analysis of options has been delayed, but it is now underway. it is true that we also lack the human resources to deal with a particularly difficult matter, but we are a little short. another reason for the delay, which is not so easy to unblock, is that this analysis remains a sensitive and relatively controversial subject among different commission services, which express significantly divergent opinions on the best way forward. i'm just trying to put some order in this so i can see things clearly. i can tell you that the commission is committed to reviewing and analysing the feasibility of additional legislation to support the flegt action plan. i'll try to revive this discussion. i said that this work was held up by delays in confirming the active participation of the member states - you know this because you yourself have spoken about it - and by the decision we have taken to concentrate the limited resources on implementing the voluntary approach set out in the action plan. the evaluation is ongoing and is being carried out in close cooperation with the member states, as a large number of potential measures fall within national competence. options assessed include public procurement policy, money laundering, stolen goods and anti-corruption legislation in addition to the feasibility and practicalities of new legislation to control imports of illegally harvested timber. i hope that this work will be completed during 2005. mrs hall, you said that illegal timber should be banned outright. i agree with you, but we also need to find a system that allows us to verify that legal timber is not illegal timber. in other sectors, triangular trade exists. i have even asked the european research centre ispra to report on this. i assume you know the problem. you must know that during my very short term as commissioner for research i visited this european research centre and saw some very interesting things: they are drawing up satellite maps that can see crime happening under the eyes of this satellite, almost to the nearest square metre. and you can also see the reforestation, the amount of trees lost, and so on. these are technical or technological means which we should perhaps consider using to meet your concerns. there should be no problems at commission level, but i have to convince a number of member states to agree to go down that road and to use the means at our disposal to be more coercive. as regards the legal basis, the commission considers that the voluntary import authorization system should be implemented on the basis of article 133 of the treaty on commercial policy. parliament and some member states disagree, arguing that a legal basis based on article 175 of the treaty on the environment would be more appropriate. why has the commission chosen article 133, or trade policy, as the legal basis for the regulation to set up the voluntary system of import authorization for timber? in its view, this legal basis is the most appropriate, since the content of the regulation is only intended to regulate trade in wood products between the european union and the partner countries. i personally agree with the commission. i also think that article 133 is more appropriate. but do not see this as a religious war. the most important thing is to know your legitimate concerns - which i fully share - which you have expressed to me during our meeting. this case is therefore not closed; i promise you i will put all my leadership on this case. i cannot, of course, promise you that i will succeed, but i will do my utmost to make the case go in the direction you wish because your concerns about this are my concerns too. i will ask the research centre to consider techniques which could be used, for example, to do what you say, because we would be taking a big step forward. the establishment of a kind of certificate of origin would already go a long way. it will be up to the member states to convince them, but i promise that i will come back in september with ideas on the matter. i can't promise you anything more now. but things are changing and i will also try - although it does not depend solely on me - to strengthen the task force in charge of this matter.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, clearing and settlement are not just the back-office of financial institutions, they are the backbone of the securities market and therefore of the capital markets. this is the set of provisions that investors and financial operators need for the holding and transfer of securities. clearing and settlement are not capital markets, they are capital markets. they contribute to the smooth functioning of the financial world and the economy of the european union. it is widely accepted that crossborder clearing and settlement is hampered by a number of obstacles of varying nature and effect, as you know. this situation increases the cost of clearing and settlement at the eu level significantly compared to national systems, and in particular to that of the united states. it also increases the legal and other risks of cross-border transactions. this is clearly a major obstacle to cross-border investment, portfolio diversification, etc. it is clear that we have not yet reached a european union market in this area, with the consequence that we cannot enjoy the benefits of european union growth, which an efficient clearing and settlement system could provide, and that we will not be able to compete effectively on a global level. in short, the objective of all issuers reaching all investors is still a long way off. the commission therefore welcomes the attention paid by the european parliament to this issue in its response to the commission's communication of april 2004. the commission's stated objective is to promote the creation of efficient and secure clearing and settlement systems in the european union, which guarantee a level playing field for the various issuers. we want to remove barriers to crossborder clearing and settlement, and thus enable clearing and settlement service providers who wish to do so to access and provide their services in other markets in the european union, within a commonly accepted regulatory and supervisory framework. in other words, we want to establish a genuine clearing and settlement market. our aim is to make crossborder clearing and settlement as cheap, efficient and secure as national clearing and settlement systems in the european union. in 2004, the communication launched a broad consultation on our first approach to policy in this area. our policy was not simply to manage the current market situation but to improve the future environment for clearing and settlement in the european union. this environment would allow these operators to implement their strategy without unnecessary obstacles and in full compliance with essential public interest objectives such as system security, fair competition, efficiency, etc. the aim is to remove the giovannini barriers in cooperation with the private and public sectors. in addition, we considered it essential to ensure that clearing and settlement service providers are not prevented or subject to unreasonable conditions when they wish to access and offer their services in other markets in the european union, simply because the competent authorities refuse to recognise the equivalence of regulatory regimes or supervisory practices of other member states. if this type of barrier is not addressed, the benefits of eliminating giovannini barriers, which is the responsibility of the private sector, would be diluted or not fully exploited. these are complex issues, which is why we are rigorously implementing our dual commitment to ongoing consultation and in-depth impact assessment. as regards the permanent consultation, we have set up three groups which are working very intensively. the sesame group is monitoring and encouraging progress in the private sector's efforts to remove barriers. as you know, the authority and visibility of this group is already unquestionable. the legal security group studies issues related to cross-border legal security with regard to legal compatibility where securities are held through intermediaries. the expert group on tax compliance (fisco) studies cross-border differences in tax compliance and aims to reduce the tax compliance burden in this area. to study the impact that any regulatory intervention is likely to have, a team representing all the commission services is currently conducting a comprehensive impact analysis with a view to having a sound instrument before deciding whether to propose a directive on clearing and settlement and, if so, of course, determining its precise content. this approach is in line with the view expressed in the kauppi report. we believe we can meet the deadline of the first half of 2006 to complete the impact assessment. the importance of our commitment to consultation and impact assessment is also illustrated by the contact with the various rapporteurs responsible for this report. after a first draft report, the theses were relatively settled by all the parties concerned. the rapporteur, the experts heard by the commission, the members of the econ committee, the commission secretariat and the commission staff devoted themselves to this dossier. this openness to debate, dialogue and consultation of the multitude of parties involved in this matter is a model of cooperation in our joint work and i would like to thank the european parliament for this approach.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, clearing and settlement is a very present subject in the european debate, even if it is sometimes overestimated in view of its real economic dimension and its real structuring effect on the markets. it is certainly good that our committee on economic and monetary affairs has found a solid compromise on this and i would like to thank theresa villiers and also my colleague kauppi for that. this compromise gives priority to market players to find solutions to the problems that arise. this is a good approach because there has been no failure in the sector: it is working efficiently. let us therefore keep free competition as a basic principle so that this sector can evolve, innovate and, above all, remain competitive in international competition. we know that the commission is considering the need for legislation in this area. i strongly encourage him to use the impact assessment tool to demonstrate, measure by measure, the need, cost and benefit of each of these. at this stage of the debate, the commission must go beyond general explanations and demonstrate to the parties concerned that its action is actually making progress. it is not necessary to recall that publication of this impact assessment before a proposal for a text is tabled seems to me to be the only valid way of ensuring an open discussion on this subject. the committee on economic and monetary affairs agrees that the removal of the barriers identified in the giovannini reports should be given priority. this is worth noting, as the commission in its communication showed little enthusiasm for tackling the legal barriers which cause the extra cost of crossborder transactions. the committee on economic and monetary affairs, however, is critical of the need for more regulation and rejects the concept of public interest in this sector. the report favours the concepts of non-discriminatory access and price transparency. this is a good balance and parliament must confirm it. finally, mr president, the additional amendments tabled in plenary are mainly aimed at distorting competition between different types of institutions and, in fact, at reducing competition in the sector, which should not be the aim. in my view, therefore, these amendments should be rejected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too, on behalf of the greens/efa group, bow respectfully before the dead, the injured and the victims of these disasters, which we call natural disasters but which are often at least partly man-made. and i think that especially the images from the united states that we've seen in the last few days show that we as politicians have a great responsibility to do what we can humanly to prevent such disasters or to mitigate their consequences. mr dimas, i have two or three specific questions to ask you. the first concerns flood protection. in particular, austria complained that crossborder cooperation, for example on the danube, could be improved. could you perhaps give a more specific reference to the eu's instruments in this area? as for the forest fires in portugal, this is the second year in a row that the situation has been so extreme. have you had any experience with the measures introduced in the regions last year? have these measures worked this year? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to refer to the ideas expressed by mr prodi. i'm surprised, mr. dimas, that you didn't take a more aggressive approach in your speech. climate scientists are predicting extreme drought in southern europe. they also predict flooding and extreme weather events in central europe. and they also tell us that the strength and impact of hurricanes and typhoons will continue to increase with climate change. there are a number of publications by climate scientists on this. i ask you, mr dimas: should we not at last allow the many good words about climate protection to be followed by more action? where are we with a second european programme on climate change, and how do you intend to further activate the montreal climate negotiations in the autumn and winter? if we take climate action and do it smartly, then the same action will also reduce our dependence on oil and help improve the air quality in our cities. perhaps the commission should look more closely at this win-win-win situation.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs barsi pataky, on finalising her report in record time. if we consider the time it took the council of ministers to reach a decision - almost a decade - the european parliament can claim to have appreciated the importance of this galileo project. european cooperation in satellite radio navigation is an innovative future project, given its public-private partnership, which is said to be capable of creating 150 000 new jobs in the field of new technologies. this is a project for the future which will prove that european countries are capable of stimulating the development of new industries, creating jobs and improving the quality of life of their citizens. the way in which this project is to be managed raises an important question and it is desirable that parliament should be informed of the first results and the way in which it is being managed. mr commissioner, there are some who doubt that the management method chosen is appropriate. in view of the delays noted by the council of transport ministers, i suggest that the commission should now initiate projects to take advantage of satellite navigation by developing alternative routes to key points on our motorways, in order to facilitate the mobility of citizens and to exploit this new instrument as soon as it is available to us. the importance of this project for research and earth observation should encourage us to exploit it fully and to encourage space research projects, whether in the seventh framework programme or with easa. to this end, an observer post on the administrative board for parliament would enable it to be better informed and to coordinate action in this field. finally, commissioner, do we have the human resources to carry out this project? are we sure that the 150,000 jobs will be filled by skilled people and what will be the future needs? how should young people prepare themselves for these jobs?
in writing. i am a strong advocate of social europe and the protection of workers against occupational hazards. however, hell is paved with good intentions. the union and especially this parliament have a natural tendency to over-regulate. this is the case with the directive on protection against not only artificial but also natural radiation. throughout history, mankind has adapted to the natural climate. the bedouin of the desert dress differently from the men of the north. why limit sun exposure from sicily to the arctic circle? would it not be enough to apply what is now pompously called the precautionary principle, namely, basic caution, instead of legislating in all directions?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mrs honeyball, your report considers some very sensitive matters and i have already encountered the difficulty which you mentioned in your introductory remarks. it is a very controversial issue and sometimes i ask myself why i am here on this side and not on your side asking the questions, because the european schools are quite autonomous bodies with autonomous structures, which decide a lot of these questions by themselves. the commission is fully committed to the cultural specificity of the european schools. it therefore endorses most of the points made in this report, since the sound functioning of the european school system is our common objective. as regards the budgetary features, we would like to ensure accountability for all actors through transparency, planning and control and therefore sound and efficient use of our citizens' money. i understand people's frustration sometimes when everything comes down to money, but we must understand that in many cases the devil lies in the detail of these financial matters and they must be handled properly. on governance aspects, i am very pleased to note that the report calls for greater representation for the eu institutions on the board of governors, more in line with the role they play and with the eu's financial contribution, currently at eur 127 million, that is, roughly 60% of the overall budget. experience has shown that the 1994 convention is no longer equipped to meet the challenges relating to enlargement and its consequences. i trust therefore that i can rely on your support for improving the current governance mechanism. i am also pleased to see that we share the same concerns as regards children with special educational needs, in line with the measures advocated by the rapporteur on this subject. only by progressing in this manner and by making appropriate resources available will we be able to ensure a truly human and inclusive approach. as far as a european baccalaureate is concerned, i agree with the view that all member states should be called on to ensure that it becomes more widely available. when designing the appropriate processes, however, we must be careful to ensure that the same quality standards are met. i agree that efforts should be pursued to allow european schools to offer, as an alternative, a leaving certificate for pupils who choose to follow a more vocational education. nevertheless, i would like to stress the commission's concerns in a number of areas. with regard to the financial aspects, we should find ways to seriously and concretely improve the management and reporting. i still believe that the idea of establishing a yearly ceiling on the community contribution to the european schools should be carefully considered, as some members have stressed. i also believe that it is important to apply and to revise the so-called gaignage criteria, which have been adopted after careful discussion by the board of governors, the decision-making body of the european school system. if we are to ensure the maintenance of the european school system as defined in its founding convention, we must have the courage to address the question of the future of those european schools that no longer fulfil the objectives for which they were initially created, without excluding any option. i do understand the various expectations following enlargement, but the answer cannot be a systematic creation of new schools for which no justification exists. that would be in complete contradiction with the mission and the spirit of the european school system.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr commissioner, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mrs honeyball, for her report and her sincere cooperation. the european school system has proved its worth. i would like to congratulate the teachers and managers who have succeeded in bringing together children and teachers from the various member states of the european union in one system, particularly those who have attended the luxembourg school. multilingualism has also proved its worth, as has cohabitation, despite the temporary overcrowding of schools in luxembourg and brussels. should not the european schools be evaluated in the medium term and the model of multilingual education be extended, and should not the member states be encouraged to make greater efforts in this area, drawing on the experience of the european schools? i also believe that any country that is a candidate for hosting an agency should make a commitment to ensuring multilingual education for the children of the officials it hosts. the ghettoization of schools should therefore be avoided by admitting only pupils whose parents are wealthy enough to pay the tuition fees already required for category iii. in the 2004 school year, 32 per cent of the general enrolment - one third of the children - were in this category, for which the enrolment fees are very high. that is why i have tabled an amendment to reduce the registration fees for future pupils in category iii. our committee is calling for the reduction of class sizes, the admission of pupils with special needs and the introduction of a technical baccalaureate. the objective of the european schools of ensuring that the children of officials are educated in their mother tongue, however, deserves to be reconsidered in the light of the mobility already achieved in the union and what it will be in the future. mr president, even though a british minister said in 1998 that english would soon be the universal language - the cost to english teachers may be the price of glory - i believe that multilingualism is part of the european identity.
mr president, i would like to join in the thanks to the rapporteur who has finally shown enough listening skills to reach an agreement which does not satisfy everyone but many of us. the extremely technical nature of this directive should not make us forget its fundamental nature; the implementation of the basel ii agreements at community level is absolutely essential for the banking industry in europe. i have fought with other colleagues against a maximalist harmonisation logic in the field of mortgage issues and i am glad to have won the case. originally german, the mortgage market is expanding rapidly, especially since the introduction of the euro; with a value of around eur 1 600 billion, it is the largest private issuing segment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. covered bonds are one of the few european products that americans envy. we must not make it a museum instrument by applying too restrictive criteria to prevent banks from using it for its intended purpose. as mortgage bonds are among the safest and most highly rated financial instruments, no one would have understood that we were going in the direction of rigidity and prohibiting any latitude in national regulation. the definition of letters of guarantee and the scope of cover were therefore finally arranged in such a way as to be compatible with existing legislation. this was necessary, although i regret that in terms of lost given defaults the directive goes far beyond what is necessary with rates well above the losses actually absorbed by the issuers. i shall conclude with two remarks. firstly, i see once again that the approach of unification and harmonization leads to a dead end. we must not confuse the need for a common framework with egalitarianism. the dialogue with the financial actors can then be conducted in full transparency, to the satisfaction of all.
mr president, commissioner, the agreement between the european union and the united states on trade in wine, which was initialled by the european commission on 14 september after 20 years of negotiations, is dividing minds. there are european operators for whom this agreement will secure exports to the united states, which is their main market, with exports worth 1.6 billion euros. they believe that this agreement will also help to re-establish confidence in the sector and ensure smooth trade flows, provided, of course, that negotiations for a second phase of the bilateral agreement are started quickly and that common positions are defined in the multilateral negotiations, particularly in hong kong, on aspects relating to intellectual property. but there are also other operators, in particular european winegrowers, including my colleague christa klass, to whom we owe the initiative of this debate, and i thank her for that. it has very well expressed the concerns which i, as chairman of the parliament's intergroup on wine, traditions and quality, very much share. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. as politicians, we know that we often have to put water in our wine, but please, not in the one we drink. the mutual recognition of oenological practices on both sides of the atlantic is a problem - my colleagues have spoken about this extensively - especially since some of these practices used by european winegrowers are also prohibited by the wto. i hope you will not propose that we change this when you make the reform proposals for the common organization of the market in wine. traditionally attached to production models in harmony with their environment and subject to a stringent arsenal of community regulations, european winegrowers, anxious to deliver quality products, risk finding themselves, if transatlantic practices are accepted, in a situation of unfair competition, so that they will eventually be forced to abandon their ancestral practices that have been the specificity of the european wine sector for hundreds of years. therefore, madam commissioner, we must do everything we can to protect this sector, which is fragile because it is subject to many variables such as climate, but which has always been at the heart of european culture. it is therefore necessary to continue to defend and promote our oenological practices; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the use of geographical indications is a second point which undoubtedly raises a problem. this has long been a controversial subject on the negotiating table. i attended a seminar in washington on this. we have good relations with our colleagues in the us congress, whom we are trying to convince of the validity of our arguments. but they wanted us to buy back, to pay to buy back our original appellations. i thought the reasoning was a little curious, though. i come from luxembourg, where the moselle flows, and moselle wine, if it can be produced in germany, luxembourg or france, is not, as far as i know, produced in california! i therefore believe that the charges must be stopped and, commissioner, that it is essential to protect our names and to set up, once and for all, a system of registration of geographical indications within the wto. we hope that you will defend this view vigorously in hong kong, because this is the future of quality products and european viticulture.
in writing. the commission did not answer my question as to whether, following the helsinki summit in 1999, commissioner verheugen and mr solana had to convince prime minister ecevit to agree to the designation of turkey as a candidate country. it is not clear whether the text submitted to the turks at that time was the same as the one adopted by the european council in 1999. i'd like to know the truth. i voted yes for turkey's membership in the vote in december 2004, out of respect for those who campaign for human rights. since the vote, the turkish provocations have not ceased: the brutal police repression of the women's demonstration (8 march 2005), the denial of the armenian genocide, the attitude towards the kurds and the non-recognition of cyprus lead me to vote against the start of negotiations. i wonder if the admission of turkey is not the result of american pressure and the economic calculation of some european governments. we need the turkish government to show that it is willing to comply with the rules of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, let me first thank the commissioner for setting the right priorities. we live in a world where there will be 150 million cars in china in 2015, whereas today there are only 6 million. we have to stop allowing two-ton monsters to transport people who weigh 80 kilograms. so long as we are not serious about efficiency, especially in the transport sector, there will be no answer to oil or to climate change. in its resolution tomorrow, parliament will call for europe to become the most energy-efficient and least oil-dependent economy by 2020. this is a huge opportunity for environment policy and for employment policy. for every euro we spend to heat a house with oil, we send money outside europe instead of investing in insulation and in jobs in europe. as happy as i am with the commissioner's proposals, as scandalised as i am about the barroso commission as a whole, it is ridiculous to come up with a communication on oil without a single sentence on transport, when we all know that transport accounts for 70% of oil consumption in europe. therefore my question to you, commissioner, is: when will the commission come up with a plan under which mr barrot, mr kovács and mr verheugen take on their responsibilities? it is not you alone who have to do so. my final question is to the uk presidency. you did not mention the directive on road tolls for lorries. that is on the table. so if the council wants to produce not only words but also action, why does the uk presidency not press for an agreement on road tolls based on the swiss model?
mr president, we live in an energy-hungry world, whereas some 1.5 million people do not have access to electricity. crises like the one that's shaking up the oil market demonstrate our over-reliance on fossil fuels. mankind will probably never run out of oil, but extracting the remaining oil will become so expensive that our economies will be forced to turn away from it. all the more reason to prepare for the post-oil era. energy savings and improved energy efficiency are priorities. all forms of renewable energy must be encouraged. nevertheless, major technological leaps are still needed to strengthen the economic use of so-called soft energies. europe must invest more in all forms of energy research, in technological development related to hydrogen. the hydrogen transformation will require a lot of energy. mankind will not escape nuclear war anytime soon. i hope that through iter we will achieve fusion. in the meantime, coal will remain an important source of primary energy, even if cleaner technologies will have to be developed. at present, the erratic movements in the price of crude oil are causing problems. the intelligence of this market can be questioned in the face of the sudden explosion of prices caused by the announcement of a cyclone and the deflation of these same prices following the exhaustion of katrina or rita. there is too much short-term speculation in this very special market shaped by cartels and oligopolies. the commission will have to monitor more closely the predatory activity of certain highly speculative funds and seek to ensure greater transparency in the formation of oil prices. the european citizens will be grateful to him for a more regulatory commitment.
rapporteur.– mr president, the 21st century will be the century of renewable technologies. this tuesday afternoon we organised a conference with major industry representatives and it was really impressive to see the wide diversity of renewables and new developments such as ocean energies, solar thermal electricity and second-generation biofuels. when we speak about renewables we are not just talking just about security of supply, about the environment; it is also about the future industrial and economic policy of europe. because we have had a small number of dedicated countries, this sector is one of the sectors where europe is leading the world. last week i was in denmark. denmark has won the biggest-ever wind investment in the world, in the us, and it is a danish company which will do it. so we have an advance in this technology and we have to keep it. we therefore need a political approach. we also need a systemic approach to energy policy. the best renewable energy is the intelligent use of energy; it is energy efficiency. a second important systemic approach – and this is something that we often forget – is appropriate energy densities. taking electricity to heat or to cool a house is completely irrational and uneconomic. via our energy policy we must give up today's inefficient uses of energy and move on to the use of low-temperature renewables or waste from electricity production. let us look at the sectors. in the building sector – we had a concrete example of this on tuesday – with commission money we are financing a project in hungary. it was a plattenbau – one of those very bad buildings. there was a monitored 80% reduction in energy. then, what was a small 5% of solar heating, if you do an 80% reduction, immediately becomes a 25% of renewable share. that means more comfort for the people who live there and job creation in europe. especially in eastern europe, refitting the building stock and then modernising the central district heating systems to bring biomass instead of coal, is a major part of that area. now to solar thermal cooling: yes, we can cool houses with solar energy, and this is a perfect combination because when the sun is there, buildings are getting hot, but then the sun is also there to help us produce energy to cool this building. therefore in the building stock it is one of the huge opportunities and mechtild rothe will mention some policy instruments in that area. in the electricity sector, ocean energy will be the next big development and we have to put money into solar thermal electricity development. for the southern part of europe, that is a big opportunity and in the sun belt of the world there is also a big industrial opportunity for our industries. but we have to put the functioning of the electricity market right. commissioner, we talk a lot about it. i think we have to act more fiercely. we need ownership unbundling. we need to stop subsidies for coal and nuclear energy and we need a stable framework for renewable electricity. my final words go to the transport sector. transport is the most inefficient sector. a car only has an efficiency of 10-12%, whereas in the electricity sector we are at 40%, and in the heating sector we are at 80-90%, so the first work in transport is efficiency through mandatory efficiency for cars, moving trucks from road to rail and so on, and only then do biofuel and second-generation biofuel make sense. there again we need a stable framework until 2020, otherwise investments in second-generation biofuels will not happen. lastly, i would like to thank all those colleagues who were with me. i think we did a good job and i hope that we will see a good vote tomorrow. (applause)
i would like to support mrs lucas' request because the resumption of the debate this afternoon will cause problems for many of the members who have signed up to speak: some have flights to catch, others have appointments. if we could actually finish the debate in brussels or next month in strasbourg and vote on it afterwards, that would be good.
mr president, when the groups met last monday to prepare this joint motion for a resolution, we agreed on a text on paragraph 10. unfortunately, when transcribing this text, a part of the sentence was lost. i therefore propose that it be put to the vote in the form of an oral amendment. i have the english text. 'asks the commission to keep the regulatory status of hedge funds under review' with, as an addition: 'and examine ways in which added transparency could contribute to more stable oil markets'. i think i have the agreement of president chichester to table this text.
mr president, we have the same technical problem with the sixth indent of paragraph 15. we wish to add: 'put forwards proposals for'. the same procedure applies as for the other part.
mr president, luxembourg, a founding member of the european union, has never claimed the status of an official language of the union for its mother tongue, luxembourgish. with the last enlargement, the number of official languages has increased. the council of ministers has just given irish the status of an official language, bringing the total number of official and working languages to twenty-one. in its conclusions of june 2005, the council also decided on the languages - i quote - whose status is recognised by the constitution of a member state in all or part of its territory or whose use as national languages is authorised by law. luxembourgish has been our national language since 1984, and i believe that the council's conclusions apply to it. this recognition of luxembourgish should, however, be noted in particular because, mr president, many people do not know that we have our own language, for the preservation of which we suffered a ferocious repression during the nazi occupation. i shall ask the legal service of the parliament to look into how this hidden recognition could be made public and visible in community texts.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs pack on her excellent report and also on her personal commitment to the mobility of young europeans. the erasmus programme owes much to its tenacity, and the budget increase it is asking for is in line with its commitment. i would also like to recall president barroso's speech in berlin and the speeches made by all the group leaders in the context of the 70 cents for culture initiative in parliament, all of whom promised to increase the culture budgets. the reform proposed calls for three remarks. the competitiveness of the internal market and the mobility of enterprises would be better ensured by better preparing young apprentices for this mobility. the protectionist impulse of many small businesses would be counteracted by the practical experience that the leonardo programme provides young people by allowing them to undertake traineeships in other countries. the financial provision for 150,000 apprentices is insufficient. erasmus is too elitist because the amounts allocated to beneficiaries are not sufficient to finance the full cost of mobility. the programme is therefore only open to students whose parents can afford to pay the supplement, unless the member states take care of it, which is not the case at present. finally, the mobility of university students would work better if the council tackled the real problems, namely the transferability of scholarships, the status of students, their social security and the right to work, all issues that could be addressed since the commission's 1996 green paper mentioned them. perhaps the commissioner can tell us how the work is progressing. mr president, culture has no price, but a cost. if we want to give europe a soul, we must make a financial effort. the european people's party will support mrs pack's proposal.
mr president, i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on his report. i am not, of course, criticising his report, but rather the attitude in which the council and the commission are approaching the subject of culture. the constitution would have given us the basis for a common cultural policy based on the diversity of cultures and on mutual acceptance of the principles of freedom and human rights. however, the constitution did not go so far as to recognise culture as a genuine community policy - this was an argument for not voting for it. the aim which should be achieved through better knowledge of each other is precisely the aim which all our countries are aiming at. abolishing fear of the other is a prerequisite for living in peace in a true cultural pluralism. the aim of the common cultural policy is to learn from differences. the commission's objective of promoting the mobility of people calls for me to ask once again, commissioner - and i know that you are not the one responsible - the following question: what is the state of the council's work on the problems of social security, taxation and status, which hamper real mobility, not to mention the lack of financial resources to support real trade between the new and old member states? the commission has set itself the objective of intercultural dialogue. it was high time to highlight this problem! better synergy between education and culture is an amendment from our committee. this is necessary, and all the more so since, since 1998, under the british presidency, employability - an awful term - has been introduced into european texts as a principle for education. it is a mistake to think that more culture in school curricula would be a waste of time. creativity and mobility of mind are qualities that are learned through the culture of the arts, just as violence prevention and a culture of tolerance are based on respect for sensitivity and the culture of the senses. the 2006 budget is now being revised downwards to 36 million instead of 38. i note that the fine speeches by president barroso and all the group leaders in front of a few cultural actors are not followed by action. - what's the deed?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, let us take a calm look at reach, without any green-eyed angelism or industrial pessimism. chemistry is neither left nor right. it is an inseparable factor of the universe. some chemical molecules are harmful to humans, whether they exist in a natural state or are man-made. the most basic precaution requires a circumspect approach to new chemical substances. i prefer caution to the precautionary principle which is too often used to avoid responsibility. the publications of organisations such as greenpeace show that the substances which are really dangerous are known and denounced throughout the week. so why do we want to make reach a cumbersome and bureaucratic system, why not tackle first the substances of greatest concern, carcinogens, mutagens, toxins, bioaccumulators? for all these substances, the principle of substitution must be applied. the compromise reached by guido sacconi guarantees this objective. the flexibilities denounced by some will still involve the responsibility of the chemicals agency, whose powers will be extended. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research and technological development programmes are properly implemented. hence the need for the principle of 'one substance, one registration'. the language of chemistry is universal, each chemical formula is unique. the protection of the environment and the protection of health remain the primary objectives. but despite the fear mongers, europe's natural environment is constantly improving and every year the life expectancy of europeans is increasing by an average of three months. yet, humans are still mortal. so it is wrong to claim that a harsher reach system would save thousands of lives and somehow create immortals. reach is necessary, if only for the benefit of workers in the sector. it is not just about protecting their health but also their jobs. the european chemical industry is the first in the world. maintaining a competitive european chemicals sector remains an honourable objective, even if industrial lobbies must be reminded that cleaner manufacturing processes and non-problematic products will be a real asset to competitiveness on the world market. in the face of often extreme demands, our rapporteur and others have managed to strike a balance between health, environmental and economic imperatives. even those who will not vote for the compromises proposed by guido sacconi will have to admit that europe is now developing the most ambitious and progressive legislation in the world on chemistry.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, hampton court was a summit without formal conclusions. the promises of the summit may be as ephemeral as the marriage engagements of king henry viii in the same palace. the british presidency is right to call on the twenty-five to carry out reforms, to invest more in the technologies of the future, to create the conditions for better employment. reforms remain necessary, but for many citizens the word 'reform' has a negative connotation and is synonymous with job loss and social sabotage. jack straw has just criticised parliament's position on the working time directive. i would advise the minister to read over the very first convention adopted by the international labour organisation at the time of the league of nations which called for the 48-hour week without opt-out. reforms are accepted if they improve the general welfare. to achieve this, europe must change its overly pessimistic and miserable discourse. from the outside, the union is an example. the president of chile repeated it here last month. but, according to the commission's communications, europe will be a hospice by 2050. who among us can control these alarmist projections for 2050? yes, europe will face an ageing population. but japan and russia will experience population declines. and what about china with its one-child policy? what about india and other countries that are unable to control a population that is growing too fast? which country will have the biggest demographic problems by 2020, let alone 2050? if there is one area where europe could emulate the united states, it is in immigration policy, where it could be more generous. much of the surplus growth in the united states over the past decade has come from the contributions of ten million latinos and hundreds of thousands of european and asian scientists. two weeks ago, the united states senate voted to grant an additional 330,000 green cards annually to highly skilled immigrants. europe's competitiveness is a constant concern. however, when comparing europe's hourly competitiveness and especially its industrial competitiveness with that of other countries, it is clear that we are far ahead of the united states in most economic sectors. the commission's communication on industrial policy recognizes this. the union is still the first destination and the first source for global investment. in 2003, investment in the eu-15 was four times higher in the 10 new countries than in china, which received only 3.8% of european investment. so let's stop scaring ourselves with china. it is only natural that a country of 1.3 billion people should take a larger share of world trade, but in absolute terms europe's share of world trade is growing, even though some sectors are experiencing difficulties. however, nine-tenths of our trade is not with low-wage countries but with developed countries. globalization is a great opportunity to reduce poverty in the world. the growth of international trade has been faster than the growth of world gross domestic product for the last fifty years. this shows that foreign trade is not a zero-sum game but has helped lift millions out of poverty while benefiting consumers in rich countries. it is in fact our consumers who, by buying the cheapest products, are forcing our manufacturers to become more competitive. the union remains the world's leading exporting power, led by germany, france and italy. however, these three countries are experiencing a lack of domestic growth. their citizens are accumulating record savings. americans and britons, on the other hand, are consuming while getting dangerously into debt. to restore growth, europeans must be given confidence again. there is no alternative to the market, but the market is incapable of producing the solidarity which is the hallmark of the european model. we need political will to create more solidarity between our countries and within our countries. politics is always a question of means - and on this point i agree with president barroso - but it is budgetary means that europe is sorely lacking. tony blair is right to call for more investment in research, in universities. this means that the union's budget should be fed with more than the miserable 1% of gdp that some large countries, starting with britain, are willing to concede. (applause) the socialist group will judge the presidency on its ability to provide realistic but more generous financial prospects. the december summit must be the summit of rediscovered solidarity. a strong commitment by the twenty-five to a coordinated recovery policy and greater national and trans-european infrastructure investment will enable europe to return to growth, which is a necessary condition, mr president, for the acceptance of difficult structural reforms. it is growth that will bring stability, mr president, not the other way around. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i have been a member of parliament for 40 years, 25 of them in this honourable house: the 'reach' case is the most voluminous, controversial and complicated case i have dealt with in all these years. but it is also the subject of the most misinformation, threats and even attempts at blackmail. the few luxembourgers who like to sign a threatening letter prepared by a powerful organisation, as well as a press campaign denouncing my so-called lobbying activities in favour of the chemical industry, have not diminished my determination to vote with the majority of my colleagues, on the basis of documented information acquired with application. if the directive becomes a reality in this form, it will constitute the best guarantee for the protection of health against dangerous chemical substances at world level, without putting thousands of jobs at risk, without putting small and mediumsized enterprises in an inextricable situation, or even revealing manufacturing secrets. i hope that today i have helped to counter the perfectionists and the extremists of all stripes on an issue which is essential for europe.
mr president, our committee on the environment, public health and food safety had a discussion on 14 june with the administration of parliament to take an ecological assessment and to see how we could operate with greater parsimony. i took the opportunity to ask what the occupancy rate of the parliament buildings was. i asked whether parliament, the commission and the council were discussing their own needs for premises. i asked whether there was a standardisation of the dimensions of the premises, conference rooms, interpretation booths and other premises for future construction. mr president, so far i have received no reply. i hope you'll see to it that i get an answer.
mr president, while i support the conclusions of the report on the minimum standard rate of vat, i must say that i disagree with some of the points made by our dear rapporteur, and i am not unhappy to have the support of the vast majority of my group on this matter. after careful consideration, the idea of proposing a maximum of 25% for the normal vat rate seems to me to be a sensible one. so we would have a sort of corridor between 15 and 25 percent, much like the monetary snake in its day. the starting point in 1992 was, as we will recall, to move towards convergence of vat rates within the single market. this convergence has not been achieved, but parliament's proposal to set a maximum rate of 25% could provide a decisive incentive to move in this direction and thus avoid too great a distortion of rates, which is harmful. that is why i support this proposal, which was adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and has already been supported on two occasions by the european commission. as regards the general idea of the rapporteur, developed in his explanatory statement of the reasons for a fundamental reorientation of tax systems with an increase in indirect taxation at the expense of direct taxation, i will not hide my reservations either. i see far more disadvantages than advantages in this for the time being: the risk of further reviving the inflationary tensions which are already too much in evidence; the danger of breaking the springs of domestic demand which is often anemic; the problem of social equity in such a reorientation. so let us be very careful before we embark on such a course. let me say a word about the reduced vat rates, for example for labour-intensive activities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i agree with mrs berès, who has very well explained our concerns in urging the council to reach a solution at the last chance meeting on 6 december on the basis of the luxembourg proposal taken up and completed by the british presidency. i hope therefore that our resolution on this matter will finally make an impression on the council, which is still absent from the house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food aid is not reduced to a mere ecu 1 million. i therefore call on the new german government to show more flexibility.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur. i believe that the continuing lack of collection is due to the lack of ambition we sometimes show. if battery collection is possible in some states, why should not others step up their efforts? mrs jackson mentioned some figures. she forgot luxembourg. in 2001, the country had a recycling rate of 89.5%. the text submitted for our adoption sets a minimum recycling target of 160 grams per capita per year. in 2004, the proportion was 245 grams per capita in luxembourg. these are the results of numerous information campaigns, of a whole range of prevention and awareness-raising work organized by the government and the municipalities, and supported by the retail trade which actively participates in the collection. mr president, this is proof that collection for recycling is possible and i see no reason why what has been achieved in luxembourg cannot be achieved in other countries. as regards the replacement of cadmium, i believe that parliament should have the substitution principle as its ultimate objective, although a period of adaptation is necessary.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not energy efficiency is the most important source of energy in europe! it is the fastest and cheapest way to meet our kyoto targets, and it is also a way to invest in europe and create jobs instead of sending money for oil and gas overseas or to the arab countries. this directive is a step towards unlocking these potentials. it is also complementary to the opening up of the european gas and electricity markets. in addition to competition for the production and sale of electricity and gas, this directive will also increase competition for investment in energy-saving technologies, so-called negawatts. this is a multi-billion dollar market, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. what's good about the directive? the principle of national action plans is a good thing in the directive. the first plan must be submitted by june 2007. the commission then has six months to propose any necessary improvements. after three years, a balance sheet is drawn up, i.e. it is evaluated, and then the next plan is drawn up, not just on the basis of the failures and successes of one national plan, but on the basis of the failures and successes of 25 or 27 national plans. this is the way to get europe to take energy conservation seriously. we should not deceive ourselves: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the real reason why large energy companies like rwe or e.on fought this directive so hard behind the scenes, in the commission, in parliament and in the council, is that they are afraid of a market for energy savings. that is why these companies and the parliamentarians and governments close to them have also made sure that there are no binding targets. i regret this, but i have not yet given up hope that in future all - and above all the national parliamentarians - will be able to learn and will follow the example of denmark: 1.7% is mandatory, and that is what we need in the other countries too!
