mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to thank my distinguished colleagues inigo mendez de vigo and richard corbett for a very well-written document - it is simply clear and it highlights the essential. ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the constitution of the european union is a logical consequence of the situation which has historically developed in modern europe - the situation which now exists in the world. globalisation is happening in the world, however much we want it to be, but it is happening first in the movement of goods and finance, that is, in the sphere of material values. the exchange of spiritual and moral values is much slower. i think one of the reasons for conflict in many places in the world today is precisely that there is a huge disproportion, an imbalance, in the material and spiritual value of global exchange. the new constitutional treaty has made a step towards reducing this disparity. this constitutional treaty will not only help us to understand more clearly who we are and where we are going, but will also make our objectives and values clearer to our partners around the world. i therefore reiterate that this constitution is timely and necessary, despite some shortcomings. as one example, i can mention what has already been said by the honourable hans-gert poetterings and several other colleagues - there is no reference to christian values. ladies and gentlemen, whether we admit it or not, we are christians, atheists or muslims or otherwise religious. what we call european common values have been built up over hundreds of years and are based on christian values. ladies and gentlemen, we all, those who have participated in the drafting of the constitution and those who have taken part in its analysis and debate, have a duty to explain to the citizens of our countries the nature of this document, because we cannot expect every citizen of the european union to have read it. unfortunately, i should like to draw attention to a trend in our countries where contracts are often used for short-term internal political discussions. dear colleagues, let us resist this temptation, let us resist our party members! this is a long-term document that we need for ourselves, our children, and our neighbors.
ladies and gentlemen, last week i had the opportunity to meet with people from disaster-stricken countries, and today i want to express their concerns. first, they fear that the promised funds will not actually be granted. second, they want to restore the depleted resources of life and work on their own. and third, people are afraid that aid will get lost in the bureaucracy of donors. as a newly joined country, i can understand this, because the aid we received was also sometimes used to support the consultants of the donors themselves. what can we do to alleviate such anxiety? first of all, i would like to highlight the difference between aid to africa, for example, where there are long-standing structural problems that are difficult to solve and sometimes even difficult to absorb, and aid to the region that is currently suffering, where people need immediate and urgent help, where people need to return to normal economic life, where people know how to work and know what to do. the european union must therefore, firstly, be non-bureaucratic, and must also provide, for example, small grants directly for the rehabilitation of fisheries, tourism and other activities, and secondly, since the un has a key coordinating role, we should have a direct un opinion in parliament as early as the next part-session on both the situation and the use of aid.
on behalf of the group. you guys! the european union is committed to achieving the millennium development goals by 2015; it is ambitious and requires commitment. the burden of external debt on poor countries is an insurmountable burden. this prohibits reducing the proportion of the population living in extreme poverty. the european union has already committed millions of dollars to debt relief. the hipc initiative covered the world's 42 poorest countries. twenty-six of these will be written off at a rate of 50 percent, or $25 billion. other financial instruments are also used. however, these and other measures still prove insufficient to reduce the external debt of the poorest countries. new opportunities and targeted measures must therefore be sought. there is a chance to qualify for debt relief for a wider range of countries, like iraq. debt relief international must be involved more, and a real chance must be given to break out of economic stagnation by moving towards the mdgs.
the president! commissioner, what is it? the events of recent months in ukraine have convincingly demonstrated to the democratic world that the ukrainian people are unwilling to reconcile themselves with the fate of several former soviet union states, which have been overrun by authoritarian and quasi-authoritarian regimes. ukraine will never be the same again. the demands of the public are broad, and they have the right to mobilize the people not only in actions against the fraud in the presidential election, but also in demands for democracy and the rule of law. the involvement of the wider public has helped ukraine to accomplish tasks that otherwise require revolutions. already, major changes towards democratisation have affected the supreme court, the security services and the media. however, a number of risks remain that may make it difficult for the ukrainian people to implement their choice. the danger of a divided country, however exaggerated, is real. there is no doubt that the mass media loyal to the russian president, which retains significant influence in eastern ukraine, will continue to question the choice of the majority of the ukrainian people. the commission notes that the ukrainian exporting producers are not subject to the anti-dumping measures in force. the baltic states, and more recently latvia, have felt russia's desire to exploit a similar dependency since the late 1990s. the weakness of the current reforms, in particular in the judicial system, may jeopardise the quality of future reforms in ukraine. the european union must help ukraine to overcome these risks, we must not lose sight of this moment of historic change. economic aid, investment, but above all trade opportunities. the european union must offer ukraine access to its internal market, in particular to the few competitive ukrainian steel and food businesses. ukraine's accession to the world trade organisation is to be welcomed; the swift preparation of an eu-ukraine action plan is important. and a clear signal must be given as soon as possible to the west and east of ukraine, to society and to politicians, that by fulfilling the strict conditions for accession, ukraine has opened the way to membership of the european union. ukraine has become the focus of the world's attention, it must become the focus of the european union's attention. ukraine must be given the opportunity to join the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen! the new member states have historically preserved many other sites in europe that have disappeared. therefore, the implementation of the natura 2000 network has been given priority at national policy level. today, with the list of spas and their importance for biodiversity conservation fully recognised, resources may be lacking to maintain them. the commission announced that it supported natura 2000 funding from the rural development and structural funds. however, it does not envisage the creation of a specific financial instrument for the network. i believe that, especially in the new member states, where there is intense competition for structural fund and rural development funds for local projects, the european union nature protection network has little chance of receiving co-financing. first, we need to create a new single environmental financial instrument. secondly, the proposals to complement the activities supported by the draft regulation by the following are welcome: to provide funding for the management of habitats that cannot be supported under the structural funds and the rural development funds, to provide funding for the implementation of pilot projects in the field of environmental technologies, to provide for preparatory measures for the future mobilisation of the structural funds. only then will the financial resources available for the maintenance of natura 2000 complement each other and we will achieve what we set out to do in creating the natura 2000 programme.
on behalf of the group. madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. my dear colleagues! i would also like to begin by thanking mr grosch for the good management of the project in this difficult situation. as a representative of a new member state, this situation with driver's licences was a real surprise to me, because in my country, latvia, we started issuing plastic licences the size of credit cards two years after we regained independence. and i personally have been away for ten years with my first plastic card, which i exchanged last year for a new one with the european union symbol on it. i therefore find it rather difficult to understand the political failure of some member states to say that paper licences are interchangeable with plastic licences. if latvia could do it, i think other countries can do it too. and if we have a common internal market and free movement of labour, it is hard to see why we cannot adopt a uniform procedure for driving licences, medical requirements and the like, because any driver in the european union can cause traffic problems in another country in the european union. i also think that both the commission and parliament could have been more rigorous on the issue of microchips and their use and left it as a matter of course for the foreseeable future. i very much hope that we will adopt a good draft directive at the first reading tomorrow.
the speaker. - mr president! my fellow citizens! the 2006 budgetary guidelines for the other institutions of the european union set out the following priorities. first, the successful completion of the 2004 enlargement round by fully integrating the representatives of the new eu member states into the eu institutions, and preparing for the next eu enlargement round by including bulgaria and romania. it is unacceptable that almost a year after the eu enlargement, many posts for new member states are still vacant. one of the problems to be considered in this context is the excessive bureaucracy and the slow recruitment procedures. secondly, the efficient and maximum use of the european union budget. this priority covers issues such as the concentration of the eu institutions' resources for their core work, the support of new budget requests to staff posts only after the possibility of resource and staff redistribution within the existing budget has been assessed, the support of new initiatives only after their budgetary impact has been assessed, interinstitutional cooperation for the purpose of budgetary savings and efficient use of funds. for example, to ensure a more efficient use of eu budget funds in the context of the need for additional space for the various eu institutions, mainly in connection with eu enlargement, we call on all eu institutions to cooperate and allow their premises to be used by other institutions. this will allow the provision of the necessary space for various meetings and other events without unnecessary additional expenditure on building or renting the premises. for example, the european parliament's plenary chambers in brussels and strasbourg are empty most of the time. thirdly, improving the eu budget nomenclature, making it more complete and transparent so that taxpayers have greater clarity on how their money is spent. as regards the budget of the european parliament, i would first like to emphasise that the level of total expenditure will be determined by the legitimate needs after careful consideration. achieving the 20% threshold for total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself. as an important aspect of the work of the european parliament in 2006, i would like to highlight, firstly, the need to better explain the work of the european parliament to eu citizens, with particular emphasis on the role of the european parliament's representations in the eu member states in this regard. and secondly, the preparation of the european parliament for the greater legislative workload as envisaged by the eu constitutional treaty. finally, a few words on the eu's general budget for 2006. i would like to emphasise that 2006 is the last year of the current financial perspective. it is therefore important that the total amount of budgetary commitments for 2006, as well as payment appropriations, should be in line with the commitments made by the eu, including in the context of the enlargement of the european union. the council's attitude towards the 2000 budget of the european union, which artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations, is therefore unacceptable. if we want to see the european union as a reliable partner, it is important that the european union fulfils its commitments, including those it has undertaken in the context of eu enlargement.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on its realistic approach and commitment. we see lisbon 2000 as a demonstration of the failure to achieve the objectives and the perceived lack of political will. although the overall situation cannot be considered dramatic in real terms, the means of implementing the strategy require a radical revision. i think that is what the commission is proposing. the objectives remain the same, and that is understandable, since there are no other realistic alternatives. the main challenges remain the same: getting the social partners of the member states and all european citizens on the side of change. on risks it has become clear that, at the same time as the resumption of the lisbon strategy, we are discussing the reform of the stability and growth pact a reform that would not bring about convergence between the euro area countries and would delegate more economic and financial risks to the member states. member states will need political leaders and the will to reform. the services directive, which the commission has promoted as an essential instrument for achieving the lisbon objectives, also faces fierce opposition. unfortunately, the commission was ready to accept. on the other hand, the lisbon strategy risks becoming over-regulated at the european union level, and it is therefore necessary to ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity and regular evaluation of the impact of european union legislative initiatives, the main aim of which is to ensure the competitiveness of european businesses. i would also add to the serious risks the ideological debate we are hearing today about the importance of the pillars of the lisbon agenda. this debate has moved back to the previous agenda. the benefits of this moment are matched by the fact that the european union is now 10 times bigger. concerns about the flight of jobs to new member states, cheap labour and competition in tax laws within the european union are forcing politicians to think about reform and making societies more open to change. the enlargement of the european union has brought a time of active competition and change. this is a good time to relaunch the lisbon strategy.
ladies and gentlemen! last year, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize for human rights to the belarusian association of journalists. today we have to answer to the european community and the people of belarus whether we are able to maintain the high standards set by mr sakharov and the european parliament, because the sakharov prize for human rights is a symbol of the triumph of human dignity, intellectual freedom and reason. today we need to continue what we started. we respond to the struggle of the belarusian democrat mikhail marinis for human rights by calling in our resolution for his immediate and unconditional release and that of other political prisoners - it is our responsibility. in response to the struggle for truth by belarusian journalists, we strongly condemn in our statement the attacks by the lukashenko regime on the media, journalists and any person who freely expresses his or her views - it is our responsibility. we are responding to the struggle of the belarusian people for the right to belong to the new democratic world by condemning the dictatorial regime of lukashenko - that is our responsibility. europe must promote the process of building a civil society in belarus, where society is not as inert as is sometimes thought in europe. people are willing and ready to speak out, and i am convinced that the struggle of the belarusian people and democratic leaders has earned the european union's broadest support - moral and financial - as they are brutally persecuted by the criminal lukashenko regime. it's our duty to call things by their right names. today, belarus has a form of political, economic and ideological power called dictatorship. in minsk, the real supreme power, the legislative power, the executive power and even the judicial power belong to one person a dictator who has usurped unlimited, absolute and uncontrollable power and lordship over society and the individual. i call on the european parliament and the council to recognise and condemn the current regime in belarus as a dictatorship and president lukashenko as a dictator. i call for the vision and economic strength, the european parliamentary erudition and the commission's administrative capacity to be combined in the name of belarusian democracy. the defence of belarus' democracy needs a real shield, not a raincoat. let's start working together today!
on behalf of the uen group, your honour, the commissioner! first of all, i would like to thank mr. marco for the work he has done and the compromises he has found in a number of problematic areas. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his very thoughtful comment. social rights for workers, road safety and business interests are the main vectors that intersect in this project. but i do not think that the transport committee's version is balanced in all these respects at the moment. we know that the new member states of the european union are unfortunately also peripheral countries and are therefore objectively less competitive in the business of road haulage, as they are further away from intensive market areas. unfortunately, the draft contains proposals that further reduce the opportunities for these road hauliers, such as increasing or reducing the mandatory daily rest period, removing the possibility for drivers to take shorter weekly rest periods outside the base, or a proposal that prohibits the payment of a mileage premium to road hauliers even if it does not endanger road safety. all these proposals are not, in my view, aimed at combating wage dumping, as the explanatory memorandum says, or 'social dumping', as the modern expression is now, by the operators of the new member states, but at maintaining the existing market division. such concerns about the wages and social protection of hauliers may lead to hauliers from the new member states being able to avoid wage dumping altogether, as they will not receive wages at all if they become unemployed. article 11 of the directive also currently provides for guarantees for participants in existing collective agreements between the social partners. the 'ease' of doing so is well known to the builders in latvia and some other new member states, and now perhaps also to the road hauliers, provided that we do not try to balance interests when voting on legislation. i am also not convinced that the social and road safety objectives are achieved if we extend the scope of the legislation to vehicles weighing less than three and a half tonnes when operating within a radius of more than 60 kilometres. this imposes additional financial and technical burdens on these means of transport, which are not statistically the most dangerous. in addition, it will create incentives for express companies to contract with self-employed drivers, which in turn will reduce the social protection of these people and, in fact, will only make road safety worse.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! my fellow citizens! it is important for bulgaria and romania to be able to assume the obligations arising from membership of the european union. it is equally important for the european union that enlargement does not pose risks to the union itself. given the situation in the piedmont and the balkans, especially on issues such as smuggling and trafficking in human beings, it is important that the new border areas fully comply with european union standards. that is why i proposed in a european parliament resolution to call on the romanian and bulgarian governments to pay particular attention to the security of the new external borders. that's what i've been proposing to the foreign affairs committee. as a representative of latvia, i am well aware of the amount of work that countries have to do and the important decisions that need to be taken, especially in the last years before joining the european union. romania and bulgaria have made significant reforms on their way to the european union. i believe that it is now important to maintain the momentum and continue the reforms that have been initiated, with particular attention to improving the internal affairs and judicial system, respect for human rights, but in particular, and i would like to stress this in particular, the fight against corruption and the safeguarding of the external borders of the european union. reforms in romania and bulgaria will have a positive impact not only on the well-being of their citizens, but also on the development of the western balkans. in particular, we would like to highlight the situation in the neighbouring country of moldova, where the implementation of the values of peace, stability and prosperity, thanks to the next member states of the european union, bulgaria and romania, could become a matter of the near future. as regards bulgaria and romania, i believe we need to look to the future constructively. if any issues are not yet resolved, the necessary support must be provided to enable them to meet the regulatory requirements from the first day of participation. the european parliament's political support for romania and bulgaria will only strengthen their commitment and serve as political capital for further active reforms.
on behalf of the ppe-de group, madam president! you guys! amendments to the directive on the sulphur content of marine fuels are necessary with a view to reducing harmful emissions from marine fuels, thereby reducing acid rain and improving air quality in europe. improve air quality in the immediate port and coastal areas by reducing the adverse effects on human health of acid emissions, ensuring that sufficient quantities of this fuel are available. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hassi, for the excellent work and discussion on this subject and for the fact that we have reached an agreement that achieves the objectives set. i am grateful to all those who supported our group's motion for a report. many issues are now debated as assumptions rather than facts. after a proper study, we still need to find the most sustainable, environmentally and economically viable solution a solution that takes into account the precise answers to a number of important questions. does the production of low sulphur fuel use so much energy that it risks exacerbating the greenhouse effect? our priorities need to be seen in strict accordance with the kyoto protocol, as the adoption of this directive will increase the cost of water transport. could the increase seriously jeopardise the cornerstone of the european union's transport policy, the reduction of inland road haulage and the diversion of freight flows to other modes of transport? our future activities must also be discussed with the international maritime organisation, otherwise we may end up in a situation where the changes will only affect vessels registered in the european union and those bound for europe. in contrast, transit ships will be able to use significantly cheaper fuel. in that case, our shipping industry would be threatened and we can expect the ships of our fleet to be re-registered under third country flags. the negative impact of marine exhaust gases must be reduced. i urge a very serious review procedure to ensure that our fleet is sustainable in the long term and that the environment and human health in the european union are adequately protected.
on behalf of the uen group the president! the european council's outcome was unfortunately dominated by the debate on the services directive. the outcome of the debate on the services directive, which is a legacy of the previous commission, is a significant undermining of enthusiasm for the achievement of the objectives of the current commission's rewritten lisbon strategy. the directive was designed to increase competition in sectors open to competition in order to attract consumers and to support small and medium-sized enterprises which are currently unable to operate across borders. the proposed directive was rejected as a threat to the european social model. surprisingly, the application of the principle of the country of origin to the provision of services has been the subject of the most criticism. this principle is the guiding principle of all internal market legislation and has been consistently upheld by the judgments of the court of justice of the european communities. the commission is losing one of the few instruments at its disposal and one of the most important cornerstones of the renewed lisbon strategy. the reform of the stability and growth pact is economically understandable, but it would only be fully justified if the european union were a single state. it's hard to understand what's eating you when you're hungry. the stability and growth pact, therefore, is a good thing in good times, but a bad thing in bad times. in good times, policymakers lacked the will to save for tomorrow; in bad times, they lacked the will to implement structural reforms, and the only thing left to do was to change the terms of the pact. the reform of the pact reduces member states' fiscal discipline and does not encourage improvements in good times. but the difficulties caused by a weaker single currency and higher borrowing rates will be shared by all member states, including those that have done well in good times and bad. the decisions of the european council will in any case have far-reaching consequences. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social dimension, in particular by introducing a new approach to the social dimension.
on behalf of the uen group mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you guys! on behalf of myself and the group of european nations, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr h. kuhne, on his well-written report on the european security strategy. it covers the deepening of the concept of security in the light of the current situation, provides sufficient insight into the current issues in the european security area and identifies shortcomings. let me just look at one aspect. i think that mr cooney was quite right in his report to point out the need to increase the involvement of the european parliament in the implementation of the european security strategy. achieving this objective is a rather complex task for members of the european parliament, and of course for the european institutions. however, it must be acknowledged that we lack the necessary information and expertise within the european parliament to be able to give a thorough and informed account of the activities of the relevant directorate-general of the commission and the council in implementing the european security strategy, not to mention the possibilities of understanding the actions of national governments, their interaction in implementing security and defence measures. ladies and gentlemen, i have to admit that this is a significant problem. in fact, there is a sufficient problem of common security aspects in the european union. this is due to financial shortcomings as well as to the lack of military capability, information and other capabilities. in the months since i first became a member of the european parliament, i have had the opportunity to understand, little by little, the way in which european security policy is run, and who the key players are. i therefore feel that i can say with full responsibility that the report is of sufficient quality. as 70% of citizens of the european union support the need for a single european defence policy, it should be considered that monitoring the implementation of the european security strategy should be one of the priorities for the enlargement of the european parliament's powers. the threats of the 21st century, transnational terrorism, the illicit spread of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, islamic fundamentalism, make it imperative for everyone to understand our global challenges and for the european parliament to play an active role in preventing them.
for the uen group the president! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs handzlikas, for the comprehensive study and say that the report shows that the new member states are not worse off than the old member states in terms of the overall take-over of legislation one year after joining the internal market of the european union. positive and negative examples are found in almost equal numbers in both the old and new member states. the new member states' operators still face difficulties in assimilating the mechanism of the functioning of the internal market, especially in sectors which are not harmonised. in contrast, in the harmonised spheres they do not always have a conformity assessment infrastructure in place in their country for the products they produce. the list of individual problems could be continued, but they cannot replace the benefits of the european union's internal market. however, it was only relatively recently that concerns were raised in all the then candidate countries for the european union that the free movement of goods could be a catalyst for economic system change in shocks to surviving economies. the industry, which is still in its infancy, would not be able to withstand the competition from the strong producers in the european union countries. it is true that many companies in the new member states that were not established on the market have gone bankrupt as a result of the competitive pressure of companies from the old member states, but there has certainly been no decline in entrepreneurial activity. on the contrary, the increase in competition has stimulated the market, which has, of course, benefited the consumer. the views of that time on the risks to the eu's single market in the new member states bear a surprising similarity to the current debate on the potential risks to the eu's services directive in the old member states. the most striking similarity in these discussions is the disregard for consumer interests. the consumer is not being heard. the opinion of the economic operators concerned by the possible intensification of competition is presented. the amendment proposed today, number one, to abandon the principle of the country of origin for services in the internal market is essentially equivalent to the proposal to abandon the internal market. the principle of country of origin is the driving force behind the european union's internal market legislation and has been confirmed by the judgments of the european community courts. in the service sectors where there is competition at present, the additional competitive market is the beneficiary and, of course, the consumer is the beneficiary. at present, even successful smes in member states are prohibited from crossing their national borders to provide services in other member states because of the high financial and bureaucratic costs involved. the application of the principle of the country of origin to the provision of services would open the internal market of the european union to the most significant service provider in the member states, to small and medium-sized enterprises. the arguments about the threat to the european social model are completely rejected by the directive on the posting of workers in the service sector adopted almost a decade ago. the consumer wants to receive goods and services of the highest possible quality at the lowest possible price, but this can best be achieved by a competitive market and an internal european union... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i believe that a peaceful and prosperous europe must be based on the respect for human rights. for this reason, i cannot vote for mr brok’s resolution. a number of its assertions would create a legal basis for the violation of human rights and lead to huge injustices in my country, latvia, as well as in neighbouring estonia. the motion for a resolution states that the countries of eastern europe were under soviet occupation for many decades. in the case of latvia and estonia, such an approach would have dangerous consequences for the more than half a million people who settled there during those decades. mr toomas ilves from estonia recently explained in the baltic times what this assertion would mean: ‘hence, the protection of minorities in the baltic states will become senseless’. moreover, two weeks ago, the latvian parliament approved further consideration of the declaration asking the european parliament for exemption from the obligation to accept foreign citizens and their descendants who were moved to latvia during the time of occupation. my father was a naval officer in the soviet army and participated in the defeat of hitler’s army and of his local allies, arājs, cukurs and others, responsible for the liquidation of 80 000 latvian jews, including my father’s grandparents. moreover, my father was thrown out of the army, in accordance with stalin’s orders, for being jewish. i will never accept that my father was an occupier, nor will i ever agree that my mother, a russian orthodox, who came to riga from st petersburg in 1950, should be subject to repatriation, as the draft latvian declaration says. the assertion made in this european parliament resolution will encourage latvian law-makers to accept this declaration in the very near future. i do not want the baltic states to become a second balkans. we parliamentarians are fully responsible for the words we are saying.
ladies and gentlemen, sixty years after the second world war, i can confidently say that the european union is the best model of cooperation between nations that the old continent has ever known. dialogue has replaced war in europe, and yet there is still no agreement, no deep understanding of the historical truth, no interest among nations and politicians. yes, these days we are celebrating together one of the greatest victories of mankind over nazi ideology. we remember the victims of fascism and lay our heads before the fallen warriors. yes, it is gratifying that the european parliament, across the political spectrum, has been able to agree on a resolution on the end of the second world war and, for the first time, to assess and condemn both the crimes of the nazi and communist regimes simultaneously. you guys! our joint declaration makes it clear that there can be no compromise without historical truth; that only a strong europe can offer solutions to overcome the consequences of a past based on injustice and half a century of social, political and economic degradation of imprisoned nations. unfortunately, our statement is not all that it says. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. only the strong say things with their right words. george bush said clearly in riga a few days ago: 'the yalta agreement followed the unjust tradition of the munich and ribbentrop-molotov pact. this time, again, it was the strong governments that spoke, and it was at the expense of the freedom of small nations. after attempting to sacrifice freedom in the name of stability, the continent was left divided and unstable. this is evidenced by the real cold war in europe over the course of half a century. everyone in the european parliament knows that the north atlantic alliance nato was created in the interests of european security out of fear of an invasion by a totalitarian, cynical and aggressive soviet regime. this proves that the west had no loyalty to an ally like stalin after world war ii. the evil empire created by stalin was unacceptable, even though before that there was a common celebration of victory over nazi ideology. ladies and gentlemen, this is something to keep in mind when thinking about the future of europe. sixty years after the second world war, europe is working with its allies to shape its future. unfortunately, russia, which is still the legal successor of the ussr, denies in its statements the influence of the eastern european countries and the occupation of my country, latvia, as well as lithuania and estonia. it is humiliating to deny this historical truth, to knowingly perpetuate the crimes of the communist regime. it's disrespectful to the victims and the victims of the regime, but it's happening today. russia is trying to keep the ability to manipulate public opinion in the world. russia updates and expands the issue of minorities in latvia, but at the same time continues to violate the human rights of victims of the totalitarian soviet regime, victims and their relatives, because their suffering and losses are denied. such russian attitudes do not encourage a settlement between russia and the newly independent states of eastern europe and the baltic states. the real crimes of communism must be condemned and their consequences addressed in the interests of the future stability of europe. i call for a vote on the resolution!
the speaker. commissioner, please! my fellow citizens! the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the 2006 budget of the european parliament set out the following priorities. first, the successful completion of the 2004 eu enlargement round by fully integrating the representatives of the new eu member states into the eu institutions, and the preparation for the 2007 eu enlargement round by including romania and bulgaria. it is worrying that more than a year after the eu enlargement, many of the posts for new member states are still vacant. it is estimated that only 78% of the seats in the new member states will be filled by the end of 2005. the secretary-general of the european parliament will therefore have to submit a report on the reasons for the delay and proposals for improving the situation. one of the problems to be considered in this context is the excessive bureaucracy and the slow recruitment procedures. the second priority is to use the european parliament's budget effectively and to the best of its ability. this priority covers issues such as the concentration of the eu institutions' spheres of activity for the performance of their core tasks, the support of new budget requests to staff posts only after the possibility of resource and staff redistribution within the existing budget has been assessed, the support of new initiatives only after their budgetary impact has been assessed, interinstitutional cooperation for the purpose of budgetary savings and efficient use of funds. of course, the question of the more than €200 million a year that is being spent in addition to the european parliament's meetings in strasbourg is still relevant. the main problem is the parallel maintenance of the two european parliament buildings in brussels and strasbourg. it should be noted that this is a matter for the eu council. the third priority is to improve the eu budget nomenclature, making it more complete and transparent so that taxpayers have greater clarity on how their money is spent. the proposed draft nomenclature will need to be developed to meet the above criteria. as regards the budget of the european parliament, i would like to emphasise that the level of total budgetary expenditure will be determined by justified needs after careful consideration. achieving the 20% threshold for total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself. the proposal by the secretary-general of the european parliament provides for a budget of eur 1 341.6 billion for the european parliament for 2006. we welcome the fact that the committee on budgets has supported the rapporteur's proposal to reduce this amount by eur 20 million. the experience of the past years with large redistributions of unused funds and even unused amounts shows that we have the ability to spend european taxpayers' money more economically. the final level of expenditure in the european parliament's budget will be decided at first reading. as important aspects of the european parliament's work in 2006, i would like to highlight, firstly, the better explanation of the work of the european parliament to eu citizens, with particular emphasis on the role of the european parliament's bureau in the member states of the european union in this respect, and, secondly, the preparation of the european parliament for the greater scope of legislative work envisaged by the eu constitutional treaty. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that 2006 is the last year of the current financial perspective. in this context, the question of the overall amount of payment appropriations in the eu budget for 2006 is particularly relevant. it is important that the total amount of budgetary commitments for 2006, as well as payment appropriations, correspond to the commitments made by the eu, including in the context of eu enlargement. i would like to call on the eu council to reconsider its position on the 2006 eu budget, which artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations. if we want to see the eu as a reliable partner, it is important that the eu fulfils its commitments, including those it has made in the context of eu enlargement. it is important that the commitments provided for in this financial perspective are reflected in the 2006 budget accordingly.
the speaker. - my colleagues! the position of the rapporteurs and the etped group is to reduce the amount of the european parliament's expenditure reserve by eur 20 million, i.e. the total amount of the general and building reserve to eur 70 million, 456 thousand, 865, compared to the eur 95 million proposed by the parliament's administration. the reduction in expenditure is consistent with the policy of austerity and has been supported by the committee on budgets. the greens have tabled two amendments, and as rapporteur i would like to draw your attention to the following. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road. to avoid the twenty percent violation of the fifth section, i urge you to rely on the green's first and second amendments.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i have voted for the resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war. it is a tribute to those who fell on all fronts in the second world war. in particular, it should be noted that this resolution expressly reaffirms the understanding of the soviet occupation of the baltic states and the stalinist dictatorship of the soviet union in eastern and central europe. today we want to reveal the truth about world war ii, no matter how hard it was for either side. i believe that this resolution, which also calls for making document archives worldwide available for research, will be the beginning of a profound joint work in the future. imagination and speculation exist only where there is no truth. we can't let that happen again! i urge you to continue to explore the truth about totalitarianism, regardless of ideology. i call for this truth to be made public! the historical truth demands that totalitarian soviet communism be condemned internationally as well. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, fully aware of my responsibility to the voters of my new time party.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! the european union is interested in building good relations with russia and this process must be reciprocal. in some areas it has been successful, but in others it has even regressed. european countries have had different historical experiences in their relations with russia. for latvia and the other baltic states, this is particularly tragic. the soviet union occupied the baltic states twice. more than 60,000 innocent people were sent from latvia to siberia in cattle cars without trial, and only a few returned. the expulsions were largely to enable the property and homes of the expelled people to be returned to the invaders with all their possessions. russia must recognize the occupation of the baltic states! it would also make it possible to legally separate national minorities from immigrants, whose rights are regulated by very different laws or standards in europe, as my colleagues have said here, and about whom latvia has to hear unjustified insults from russia. our duty in the european parliament resolution is also to send clear signals to russia that the backsliding on democracy that we have seen there recently is not acceptable. for us to succeed, it is important for the member states of the european union to speak with one voice with russia and to put things in their proper terms.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. we are all aware of the importance of the eu-russia relationship for the security and stability of the european continent. however, there are differences between the peoples of europe in their understanding of the possibilities and conditions for developing relations with russia, based on historical experience. the history of latvian-russian relations makes me pragmatically cautious in assessing the processes taking place in russia. the close link between russia's economic growth and the increase in energy prices on the world market, which has not been accompanied by socioeconomic reforms, does not give confidence in sustainable and stable growth in this country. the dramatic human rights situation in chechnya, the increasingly visible authoritarian tendencies, the growing focus on glorifying soviet totalitarianism, the return of soviet symbolism, russia's refusal to recognise the brutal occupation of the baltic states by the soviet union, all the more so as in chechnya russia is not respecting the elementary human rights of relatives of victims of soviet totalitarianism to receive archival information on the victims of the soviet union, russia's almost ten-year delay in signing a border agreement with latvia. it's the reality of russia today that makes me fearful.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to thank you for your support. the malström report aims to demonstrate the european parliament's desire to see russia as a pragmatic, sensible and high-quality partner for cooperation. the need for the report is confirmed by russia's position on the border issue with latvia. latvia lost part of its territory as a result of the occupation of the ussr. president putin has famously called it demagoguery. in view of this attitude of the russian authorities towards historical reality and the fact that the ten-year-long negotiations on a border agreement between russia and latvia have reached a dead end, it is highly appreciated that the european parliament in this report calls on russia to close the border with latvia in a fair and just manner. unfortunately, russia has not yet shown such willingness. i call on the european union not to be afraid to mediate in the fair and just settlement of the border dispute between latvia and russia, not to succumb to russian power and blackmail, to assess russia's attitude towards the countries of former influence from a position of goodwill as a proof of a responsible understanding of the need for a compromise between russia and the countries of the european union, russia's understanding of democratic values.
on behalf of the uen group the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. i would like to use this platform to say that a month ago, mr president, the hungarian member of parliament, hegei, told you and all of us a lie about hungarians, as if they were denied the opportunity to obtain latvian citizenship. we heard that we, several members from latvia, had a meeting with the hungarian community in latvia. hungarians, like other permanent residents of latvia, have full rights to acquire latvian citizenship. many hungarians have already done so, but the question, as it turns out, is not one of citizenship. the biggest problem for these non-wealthy people is the possibility of visa-free travel, which costs a lot of money to travel to hungary by radio. and it was for this reason that the latvian hungarians had approached the hungarian government, asking for special permits to enter hungary, which are already available to people living in other countries. since they were refused, latvian citizenship becomes the only way to travel to hungary without the high cost of visas. mr heggy, i call on you as a member of the hungarian socialist party not to mislead parliament but to address your party colleagues in government and propose that you stop requiring visas for your fellow hungarians to enter hungary.
drafting of the opinion of the economic and monetary committee. - madam president, i have to go. i would like to thank the commission, the committee responsible, for the work done and to consider that the directive under discussion today has a special importance for the further physical integration of the european union. however, i would like to draw attention to some aspects that could impede the achievement of the objectives of the directive. its interconnection in structured supply systems is not always in the interests of the suppliers that dominate in a given region. in such cases, investments in interconnectors must be assessed in terms of medium- and long-term returns. this requires replacing market principles with long-term planning methods to ensure security of supply for consumers and environmental protection. the same applies if the interconnector has to be created in the interests of security of supply in order to cover inadequate production capacity. in such cases, it is not always possible to rely on market principles, as the time to recover the investment may not be in line with the objectives of a competing market participant. in cases where the creation of new interconnectors is not in the interest of electricity market participants, the creation of network elements could be a public service obligation of the system operators. the choice of the priority elements of the trans-european network to be created with the financial support of the european union should therefore not be limited to commercial competition between regions and member states, as is the approach proposed by the directive. the choice of the priority network elements should be made by the european commission in the interests of security of supply in the medium and long term and the completion of the internal market of the european union. the european parliament should maintain a supervisory role over this process through the budgetary procedure. in this context, i would like to point out that the three baltic states are completely isolated from the electricity and gas markets of the european union. they have been in the same power grid with russia since the days of the soviet union. and that would be a priority, a priority direction where the interconnections should be made.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow citizens! the european parliament will vote tomorrow on its position on the next financial perspective for the period 2007-13. it will be one of the most important and responsible votes of this parliament's session. the european parliament has broadly supported the european commission's proposal, albeit with a slight change in the structure of the financial perspective. the european development fund has been removed from the financial perspective and a reserve of eur 24 billion has been created. as a result, the proposed level of expenditure by the european parliament is less than 1.07% of the total national income of the european union, but, if the european development fund and the reserve are included, we would be close to the european commission's proposal. the main spending cuts proposed by the european parliament relate to sub-programme 1a 'competitiveness for growth and jobs' and to administrative expenditure of the eu institutions, with additional resources being diverted to the traditional priorities of the european parliament. the european parliament has recognised the justification of the proposed ec expenditure for sub-programme 1b 'cohesion for growth and jobs'. the total amount of the eu funds to be committed shall be 0,41% of the gni of the european union. it is not just the amount of money that is allocated to eu funds that is important, but also the principles on which this money is allocated. the european parliament's position raises a number of important issues. first, the ec's offer to receive funds from the european union is subject to a ceiling of 4% of the gni of the member state. the european parliament considers that the 4% error rate is based on past experience and that a flexible approach to error rates is now required. it should be borne in mind that the eu has been joined by a number of small and relatively less economically developed countries. secondly, the european parliament considers that the level of co-financing from eu funds should be differentiated according to the level of economic development of the member state. this means that the eu's less developed member states could benefit from a higher percentage of co-financing from eu funds.
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– nowadays, when the crisis of the process of european integration has become evident, i recall the following words of yehudi menuhin: ‘either europe will become a europe of cultures or europe will die’. he said that in january 1999 when opening an exhibition devoted to european minorities. all of us regularly pass the room where this exhibition took place and which now bears his name. we are discussing today and will tomorrow vote on the report on the protection of minorities and non-discrimination policies, which is absolutely essential for the future of the union. this report, as adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is an excellent text showing a real ability to develop the union as an area in which fundamental rights, including minority rights, are protected effectively. nevertheless this report has been supported by little more than half of the members of the committee. moreover it seems that the same split of opinions is taking place all over parliament. why is this so? maybe the reason is that many of us have a differing or indeed no understanding of minority rights. surprisingly, we have a consensus when it comes to a number of resolutions telling those outside the eu how to respect human rights and develop democracy, yet we are not ready to support the text saying that these rights have to be respected inside the union. why do we keep silent when the member states ignore the spirit of the international treaties protecting human rights, for example, the framework convention for the protection of national minorities? i believe that tomorrow the majority of parliament will support the text as it has been accepted by the committee and therefore will support the europe of cultures.
ladies and gentlemen, while recognising the importance of the objectives of the claude moraes report and the personal responsibility shown by the rapporteur in seeking the truth, it should be noted that the process of drawing up the report once again clearly demonstrates the fact that it is essential and necessary to take into account the specific, unique, historical and political situation of each country in implementing a common policy on minorities and anti-discrimination in europe, to respect the relevance of preserving its identity and the competence of the state to address minority and anti-discrimination issues. this disregard for the truth was once again reflected in the proposals put forward by certain members who were ignorant or tendentious, that is, in the unfair accusations against the minority policies implemented by the latvian and estonian states. this is absurd, because the treatment of minorities in latvia is no less hostile than in other countries. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the repetition of such open, unjustified and unrelenting attacks on these two countries, which have suffered the most from the totalitarian soviet regime, i would like to call on you to finally understand and recognise that in certain cases the solution to the problem must be sought not in a standard, but in a minority policy implemented individually in each individual country. for example, mep tatjana ždanoka started by trying to include the issue of non-citizens in all possible wording of the resolution, tried to highlight and scare europe with latvia's more than 400 thousand non-citizens, and created a situation where different legal terms are mixed up in the final text of the report and such concepts as ethnic minorities, immigrants, refugees, stateless persons and non-citizens, which are not the same. profit - to reduce the objectivity and quality of the report. it is time to remember that the repression and destruction of the baltic indigenous nation, the influx of economic migrants, have caused the ethnic composition of the population of these countries to change significantly during the occupation of estonia and latvia and created a relatively large number of foreign ideological minorities. latvia has been very loyal and the legislator has given special rights to those who were interned during the occupation - the right to naturalize at any time. the fact that many did not want to do so should be seen as an expression of their individual will, not as an indictment of these countries. it is not the number of citizens but their loyalty, respect for the country, its language, its values that should be the criteria for acquiring citizenship and consolidating society. we must avoid exaggeration, we must understand that, for example, in the case of latvia, affected by external pressure, the granting of a devalued citizenship would be discriminatory against the original nation, seriously endanger its identity and the existence of the state.
president of the council. i would first like to point out that the council attaches great importance to the protection of the financial interests of the european union. i can also confirm to the honourable member that the council fully agrees with the need to develop the fight against all forms of smuggling, which has developed in recent years. in this context, the agreement reached between the commission, ten member states and philip morris should also be welcomed. however, as regards the allocation and use of the amount you mention, which seems to me to be fair, i would like to point out that this is an agreement between the commission and ten member states, which means that the council, as an institution, is not involved in this matter. however, i can inform you that discussions between the commission and these ten member states on the distribution of funds have already begun. i can assure you that in the excellent spirit of cooperation between our institutions, the council will keep you informed of developments in this matter on the basis of information which we receive. you mention the question of allocating part of this sum to the community budget. in the event that part of the funds would be transferred to the community budget, the corresponding amount should be entered in revenue in accordance with the applicable budgetary procedure. if these funds were used to carry out anti-fraud measures, as you propose, it would be for the commission to put forward, if it deems it appropriate, proposals on which the european parliament and the council - the two arms of the budgetary authority - would have to decide, once this proposal is tabled. the council has noted, as you point out, mr president, that the agreement provides for the possibility for the member states to use these funds to finance anti-fraud measures. the council would point out that these funds, since they are intended to combat national fraud using funds that would otherwise be allocated to national budgets, are the sole responsibility of the member states concerned.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking parliament for its support and efforts, which culminated in the conclusion of an anti-fraud agreement with phillip morris international on 9 july 2004. this includes the payment of usd 1.25 billion to the european community and participating member states over 12 years. the agreement underlines the importance of anti-fraud policies and is regarded as a major success for the commission and olaf. since the agreement was signed, the commission has pointed out that all the other member states should also join it. austria, ireland, malta and poland have recently signed and we hope that the other member states will soon. we also sincerely hope that the phillip morris agreement can serve as a model for a similar agreement with other companies. the commission, on behalf of the european community, and the ten member states that concluded the anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit agreement with philip morris international, will decide how the funds are to be shared out. discussions are ongoing and the commission has repeatedly stressed the urgency of reaching agreement on the distribution of the amounts to be allocated. in this regard, we are grateful for parliament’s support in seeking an adequate share for the commission allocation. the agreement is intended to contribute to the fight against smuggling and fraud. it specifies that the monetary payments may serve as a source of additional funding for anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit initiatives. however, it does not include specific obligations for their use. in the bösch report on the fight against fraud, adopted only yesterday, parliament asks the commission and the member states to use the payments accruing from the agreement to fund measures to prevent and combat cigarette smuggling, including anti-counterfeiting activities. funds received by the european community under the agreement will be entered in the community budget as non-earmarked funds, in accordance with the rules of the financial regulation applicable. the community legislator and the budgetary authority can, however, decide to adopt a new programme or to widen the scope of an existing programme. the commission considers that the community is entitled to receive a fair share of the funds, reflecting the principles of the community’s own resources system. the commission has been discussing the distribution of the funds with the ten member states and is confident that a consensus will be reached soon. in december 2004 commissioner kallas sent a letter to the ministers of finance and has convened two meetings on the subject. a final agreement has not yet been reached. the question of the share that should be allocated to the community budget is dependent on the solution that is found to the division of funds between the member states. the commission actively continues to seek a final consensus.
for the ppe-de group - mr president! my fellow citizens! smuggling, tax evasion and fraud are problems faced by all eu member states. the problem of illicit trafficking in excise goods is particularly acute for obvious reasons. the eu budget was estimated by the member states to have lost some eur 200 million in 2003 as a result of illicit cigarette trafficking alone. the losses to member states' budgets are much higher. of course, both the tax administrations of the member states and the european anti-fraud office (olaf) have done a lot to combat the illicit trade in cigarettes. in this context, the initiative to join forces to combat the illicit trade in cigarettes at european union level by involving legal cigarette manufacturers is welcome. the cooperation agreement concluded between the european commission and several eu member states and philip morris international is the first precedent for such cooperation. the contract provides that philip morris international will develop its cigarette trafficking system and provide the member states' law enforcement authorities and tax administrations with the in-depth information needed to effectively combat illicit cigarette trafficking. in addition, philip morris international will contribute usd 1.25 billion over 12 years to the eu and member states' budgets. the european parliament stresses that ideally all or at least most of these measures are diversions to combat and prevent the illicit trade in tobacco products. the european parliament, as one of the arms of the eu budgetary authority, considers that it should be involved in deciding on the allocation and use of these funds. we considered that the member states which had not yet acceded to the said treaty, in particular the new member states, should give serious consideration to the possibility of acceding. more precise information and additional financial resources will make it possible to combat illicit cigarette trafficking more effectively and improve excise tax collection. similar agreements could also be concluded with other tobacco companies, and it is possible that such a precedent could encourage similar agreements with other producers of excise goods, such as alcohol.
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– mr president, my group supports the report on social inclusion in the new member states and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr őry, on his report. i wish to make some comments about the process of eu integration. in the majority of the new member states, the only social stratum benefiting from eu accession is the national, economic and political elite. as can be seen in the report, the gap between rich and poor has become wider. for example, in my country, latvia, a recent opinion poll showed that 84% of the population thought that their standard of living was much better ten years ago. the national, economic and political elite is mostly responsible for the current social disintegration in their countries. however, because they have ignored the unfavourable changes in the new eu member states, the eu institutions must bear part of the blame. the social instability in the new member states is endangering political stability and economic growth not only in those states, but also in the eu as a whole. this is the result of a number of mistakes made by eu institutions during the enlargement process. one such mistake was to ignore the fact that in two baltic states, latvia and estonia, a significant part of the population is stateless. these so-called ‘aliens’ belong to national minorities, and the fact that they are deprived of political rights promotes social exclusion and means that persons belonging to minorities cannot compete on equal terms in the labour market unfortunately, yesterday, during the vote on the amendments to the report by mr moraes on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies, the recommendations that these people should be given the right to participate in local elections and granted freedom of movement within the community were removed as a result of the amendments tabled by some political groups. this totally ignores the eu's own recommendations made in 2004 as part of the enlargement process.
on behalf of the uen group - madam president, i have to go. the outcome of the council meeting is not a shocking surprise, as after the cold-shower referendums in france and the netherlands, it was not to be expected that everything would go as the presidency had intended. it turned out that the enlargement of the european union and the socioeconomic risks it posed -- immigration from wherever it came, economic liberalization from wherever it came, whoever called for it -- became major drivers of negative attitudes. that was the perception of the citizens of the european union. but, with reference to the above and in view of the negative attitudes towards the european union revealed by other public opinion polls, the main responsibility undoubtedly lies with the politicians of the member states of the european union. too much is being asked of the european union, too few member states have been willing to contribute to the european union moving from success to success. too many of the european union's real achievements are being nationalized and attributed to national politicians, while internal failures are being attributed to the european union. too often, when taking difficult domestic policy decisions, national politicians do not forget to base them on the requirements of the european union. looks like the credit's been overdrawn. there are two visions for the future of the european union: a political european union and a european union of high-level economic cooperation. in reality, these two visions are two sides of the same coin: without economic integration, and also social integration, it is not possible to build a sustainable political integration structure. this, i think, is the clearest lesson of the last two referendums. the socioeconomic conditions must be created so that the citizens of the european union can appreciate and understand why political integration is necessary, why we, for example, want to call the european treaty a constitution in the future. but can we still consider the council meeting a long-term failure? the lisbon strategy was adopted, a strategy which goes beyond the integration of the internal market. the lisbon strategy is a model of cooperation within the european union which, when fully implemented, would help to organise economic and social policy initiatives in the european union, a way forward for europe to grow in a unified, competitive way and to regain public trust in the medium term. the lisbon agenda, which was a shining example of the european union's indecision over the past five years, must become an example of success and cooperation in the future. but this will only be possible if the current attitude towards cooperation within the european union is overcome. let us remember the current unproductive debate on the services directive, the cornerstone of the lisbon strategy! the final words of the lisbon strategy proved that the council has partners with a vested interest in the future of the european union, capable of laying the foundations for important tasks - security and cooperation, enlargement of the european union, cohesion policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i shall be brief because many of the issues on which i wish to speak have already been addressed by mr juncker in his very frank and eloquent speech. i would therefore like to personally thank him and the luxembourg presidency for their extremely serious work and i am very sorry that we have not yet achieved the success we had hoped for. and now a few words about the nature of things. it seems our voters, our people, have not yet realized that new challenges have arisen. if maybe a few decades ago there was the berlin wall, there was the cold war, and maybe it instinctively brought people together and made it easier for them to make collective decisions and vote for them. now it's all gone. and perhaps people do not yet feel and understand this new challenge, this global competition that europe faces, and not just the individual, but europe as a whole. and that's why we need this drug, this new constitutional treaty. and so we also need to look at what european values are, and european values today are obviously people, because we also have to take into account the demographic situation, and unfortunately it's not progressive for europe. i know it's not progressive for my people, but it's not progressive for europe as a whole. and if we leave less, then every person has to be of higher quality. and so the key challenge is that we have to invest in people, in people's education, and that's our future.
chairman! overall, the legislative proposals for the structural funds are achieving their objectives, but there are a number of issues which i do not think are being addressed in the way they should be. i'll make it three. i am unequivocally in favour of improving the financial management of european union funds and of stricter discipline in project preparation and implementation, but applying the n+2 principle to the cohesion fund can lead to the exact opposite result accelerated project preparation and implementation, inefficient and inefficient use of european union taxpayers' money. this will also significantly reduce the absorption capacity of the cohesion funds for the new member states. as a minimum threshold, i propose to discuss the n+3 principle. secondly, i believe that the extension of the duration of the aid measure and the conditions laid down in the draft legislation to seven years, as well as the obligation to reimburse the restructuring aid received by the transferred companies, which is in direct contradiction with the principles of the single market, restricts competition and the fundamental freedoms of the european union, should be seriously assessed and reviewed. third, the possibility of financing projects from private co-financing of european union funds without involving national public funding should be maintained. i therefore propose that private co-financing be included in the total eligible costs. this would allow for projects with a higher overall amount and a more efficient use of national public funding.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the dictator of belarus, lukashenko, is successfully building a totalitarian apparatus by learning from and glorifying the classics of soviet totalitarian communism, this time not by competing with the dictatorship of the proletariat and communist ideology, but by consistently destroying the civil and political freedoms of the people of belarus, by destroying the right to freedom of speech and true information. the belarusian people are receiving from the slave media a detailed account of the dictator's exploits. radio sings of happiness, and the gable-worthy propaganda machine distorts the public's self-confidence. the need for democratic freedoms is being destroyed, hopelessness is degrading dreams and belief in one's own power. how can this man-made process be stopped? how can we preserve the blood of civil society that has not yet been destroyed? how can we re-create an internal demand for honest and truthful information? this can be done by the european union exercising its rights and obligations. to create a free information space in the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the budgetary appropriations already committed this year. i call on the european commission to stop playing misguided diplomacy and to do its duty. the launch of independent radio broadcasting is currently dependent on the goodwill of the european commission. financial, technical and organisational issues are to be resolved during this year. professional journalists are ready to create objective content today. this work would be an even greater honour for them than the european parliament's sakharov prize last year. i call for the support of this resolution. support and ensure that belarus does not become a totalitarian state.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, members of the council! the european union has always placed a high priority on promoting democracy and freedom, the rule of law and human rights worldwide. these objectives must be a strategic priority for democratic europe and a moral imperative for strengthening civil society and democratic institutions in third world countries. these aspects should be decisive in assessing the relations between the european union, china and taiwan, as well as security in the far east. i therefore urge you to bear in mind the circumstances surrounding the imposition of an arms embargo on china. it's no secret that from an arms trade perspective, the embargo on china is not working. the embargo should therefore be seen not as a mechanism to limit the proliferation of weapons but only as a political instrument of the european union for assessing the aspects of democracy and human rights in china. so the desire to lift the embargo shows that the commission no longer seems to be concerned about the issues of democracy, freedom, the rule of law and human rights in china. is that so? isn't that hypocritical? does the commission, the french, german or dutch governments, looking for opportunities for economic transactions in china, fail to see that there is a continuing repression of dissidents, persecution of falun gong adherents, restrictions on democracy and freedom in hong kong, that more than 700 chinese missiles have been aimed at democratic taiwan, that authoritarian china has this spring enshrined in law the right to carry out a military invasion of democratic taiwan? ladies and gentlemen, this is the time when the european parliament must be reminded once again that certain european officials, representatives of national governments, are acting according to double standards in dealing with narrow economic interests, encouraging china, showing a willingness to ignore democratic ideals. this attitude not only reduces security in the far east, but in the future, like a boomerang, it may affect security and stability in europe itself.
the speaker. - mr president! minister! commissioner, please! my fellow citizens! thank you, mr minister, for presenting the 2006 budget of the other eu institutions. the approaches of the european parliament and the council of the eu to budgeting differ on many issues, but there are also a number of common features. budgetary discipline and the rational use of eu taxpayers' money are principles supported by both budgetary authorities. the eu council proposes to reduce the administrative expenditure of the eu institutions by €120 million compared to the institutions' initial requests. however, it should be noted that in many cases the reduction was made without deliberation, in particular without going into the specifics of the work and problems of the institutions. the european parliament therefore proposes to review the reduction in expenditure by the institutions, assessing the budgetary requirements and new tasks of each institution on a case-by-case basis in 2006. it is important to secure the necessary funding for one of the priorities of the 2006 eu budget - preparing for the next round of enlargement of the european union, when bulgaria and romania will be admitted. i believe that the european union institutions need a harmonised approach to recruiting staff from new member states. as regards the european parliament's budget, it should be noted that the bureau of the european parliament will tomorrow adopt a decision on the draft budget of the european parliament for 2006, referring it to the committee on budgets. as rapporteur for the budget, i believe that the committee on budgets will need additional information on a number of issues in order to decide on the merits of the matter, in particular as regards the information and communication policy of the european parliament. i would like to emphasise once again the principle that the level of the total expenditure of the european parliament's budget should be determined according to justified needs after careful consideration. achieving the 20% threshold for total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself. finally, i would like to say a few words about the general budget of the european union for 2006. the eu council's proposal to reduce the payment appropriations of the eu funds for 2006 by eur 150 million is puzzling. this approach reflects the eu council's reluctance to fully finance the commitments the eu has made under the existing financial perspective. since 2006 is the last year of the current financial perspective, it is important to ensure the successful completion of the existing programmes and to fix the budgetary commitment for 2006 and also the payment appropriations in line with the commitments made by the european union.
on behalf of the uen group - i'm not sure. ladies and gentlemen, the european union's current leadership in the implementation of the northern dimension seems to be more characterised by the features of the business plan. why would you do that? while the extension of the northern dimension to the baltic sea region with the aim of developing cooperation both within the region and in the border region to the east of the baltic sea is welcome, and while attempts are being made to involve russia, which is promoting its understanding of western values, it is time to seriously assess the extent to which russia has taken the northern dimension itself and related aspects into account to date. it is clear that russia has its own interests at heart in the wider regional context. this is evidenced by its inability to break free from the imperialist mindset underlying the 17th century approach of the emperor peter i to europe, and even its inability to accept the baltic states' regained independence and equal participation in the context of the development and security of the baltic sea region. as a result, the baltic sea arsenal is being developed in ways that are totally incompatible with the northern dimension, such as transport and energy systems, new ports near st petersburg, which not only complicate the ecological situation, but also impede the supply of natural resources from the northern region to consumers in the european union. as a result, tanker routes are being extended, flows in the baltic sea continue to increase and will double or triple in the near future, the cost of raw materials is rising and the threat of collision between ships in the baltic sea is increasing. all of this should be taken into account. i would also like to stress in particular that russia should make a special effort to promote democracy, because unfortunately the current russian regime ignores these overarching goals in a very visible and clear way. and only if russia can solve these problems, then we can hope that the northern dimension will achieve its technical-economic goals with russia.
the speaker. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. the commission's aim in submitting to parliament a draft regulation on compensation for failure to meet contractual quality requirements in the railway sector was to improve the quality of rail freight transport in the internal market of the european union and thus to promote the shift of freight from motorways to rail. this would increase the share of rail freight transport, which is currently very low. the draft regulation was based on administrative measures and rules to be incorporated in contracts between railway undertakings and customers. i must say at once that such a measure would be unthinkable in a competitive environment and that the opinion of the transport committee on supporting this regulation was therefore largely based on optimism or scepticism about the increase in competition in rail freight in the coming years. moreover, as a representative of a new member state, i was unpleasantly surprised to find that the draft regulation submitted in spring 2004 was based on studies of only the 15 old member states and did not take into account a whole series of specificities of the new member states, which can only be cited as examples. for example, in the baltic states, more than 50% of freight transport is by rail rather than road, compared with nearly 90% in other countries. secondly, in the three baltic states, virtually all rail freight transport crosses the external border of the european union, linking the baltic sea ports with the markets of russia, belarus or other cis countries. this would mean that, if the regulation were adopted, latvian railways would continue to pay compensation for delays in russian territory without any practical prospect of receiving compensation from russian railways. despite the above, i, as rapporteur, tried to balance the project, to find a compromise between very different interest groups. however, this compromise was not justified, at least for the time being, and even after several debates in the commission, the majority of colleagues in the committee considered that the administrative regulation was not a method to improve the quality of rail transport. i have made a number of discoveries during this time, having met with the larger railway companies, including infrastructure managers. i am concerned that if we do not adopt something in the near future in the area of freight transport, then access to infrastructure will of course be an even greater priority for passengers, which is not bad in itself, but the quality of freight transport will probably decline even more. and the most important takeaway from this work for me is that obviously we cannot make regulations based on the problems of individual transport corridors without examining the specificities of the member states of the european union and using only administrative methods where there is little competition. this 'one size fits all' approach will obviously create a lack of confidence in the european union's citizens in our legislative projects of the european parliament, the european commission, the council of europe. in conclusion, i would like to say that i am very pleased to work with all the whistleblowers in this package and also the shadow whistleblowers, and i do not understand the attempts to break up this third rail package that could not deliver practically anything to the customers. i will again mention the example of the baltic states. if, for example, the idea in mr sterckx's report that passenger rights also apply to domestic transport is dropped and replaced by international transport only, then i can say that in my region - the baltic states - this whole third package will have no impact. it has zero value from all the effects of these three or four legislative acts. i don't want to go into the details, but unfortunately, that's the way it is. i have analysed very carefully the possible impact on the baltic states. and in the light of all of the above, i would urge my colleagues to reject my report, as the transport committee did, and at the same time i would urge my colleagues to support the package approach for all the other three pieces of legislation and to support them in the transport committee's drafting.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! - what are you doing? the current high and volatile oil prices may affect the growth of the world economy. this would be particularly painful for those member states of the european union which have not experienced rapid economic growth in recent years but are forced to pay higher oil prices dictated by the rapid growth of the world economy. the rising inflationary pressures in several of the new member states of the european union are also underpinned by the component of oil price increases driven by the prevalence of old and energy-intensive technologies in their economies. there is currently no objective prerequisite for the market to increase oil. even if this happens in the next few years, the geographical location of its production will not change, which means that many risks will remain that will not allow the price of oil to fall significantly. there is also little hope that the oil-producing countries will be genuinely interested and able to coordinate with oil consumers to make oil markets more stable. the recent ideologically rather than economically motivated nationalization of oil companies in russia and venezuela has made the oil extraction sector in these countries less transparent and predictable. this is a reality that must be taken into account in the formulation of european union policy, and not just in the energy field. in the current short-term challenges in a situation where there are no free oil reserves on the market, the only available instrument for stabilising oil is a reduction in consumption. in this regard, end all subsidies and tax breaks for the refining sector and consumers, which give the wrong signals to the market about the direction of oil prices and encourage consumption, ultimately adding to the profits of oil companies. the european commission, in coordination with the market surveillance authorities of the member states, should establish a mechanism for oil market surveillance in order to reduce speculation in the opaque oil market. all the proposed action strategies for the expansion of the energy portfolio and the reduction of oil dependence in the european union presented by the commission should be accompanied by the view that it is essential to envisage a substantial increase in financing for the expansion of the energy portfolio in the financial perspective.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! - what are you doing? my fellow citizens! following a lively debate, the european parliament adopted a resolution on un reform in may. parliament called, among other things, for the fulfilment of commitments, for assistance to be provided to developing countries, for agreement on a common definition of terrorism, for the adoption of an action plan to prevent genocide and for the reform of the security council, which still reflects the post-war world situation. it didn't work. the few agreements reached are compromised and are unlikely to be sufficiently effective. there are more failures than achievements in the reform of the un at present. this result raises the question of whether the european union is a strong global player. the answer is obvious. the european union has not been effective enough. i would therefore like to invite the european commission to assess the results of the un reform from the perspective of the european union and to consider how to coordinate further activities with other countries so that the decisions taken in our context do not remain in resolutions. in this situation it is also important to assess whether the un is capable of reforming itself, perhaps requiring a new organization of a similar type. but that's the far future. it is now essential to develop a strategy to achieve the pre-defined objectives so that the un can fully serve the security and prosperity of the modern world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the current policy of the european union towards the lukashenko regime is completely impotent. the european commission does not have a sufficient action plan to make a practical contribution to the development of democracy. it is often the commission's impression that belarus does not exist, that it simply does not exist. the coordination of action and information between the institutions of the european union, the council of europe and the united nations is also totally inadequate. the democratic forces in belarus are currently quite fragmented. i would like to invite the commission to draw up an action plan for the consolidation of democratic forces. the commission should also continue to call for the immediate release of the politically convicted opposition leader, mikhail marinich. as regards the establishment of an independent broadcaster for belarus, i would like to draw attention to two issues. firstly, i would like to express my deepest disappointment that the conditions of the competition do not allow broadcasters from the baltic states and poland to participate in practice. they can't even start in a consortium. but it is precisely these neighbours of belarus who have the greatest competence in the processes that take place in this country. and secondly, the broadcasts should be mainly in belarusian, and mr. poselt mentioned this, so that the people would perceive them as their own. the fact that many people in belarus know russian better, but do not know belarusian, is a direct consequence of russification. and we cannot facilitate that process.
on behalf of the uen group representatives of the commission and the council, ladies and gentlemen! the draft report of the european parliament on weapons of mass destruction was discussed in the foreign affairs committee last week. let's remember that it was iran's nuclear program that sparked the most debate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. our resolution is in line with the council's and the agency's statements of the last few days. they emphasise political dialogue as the most appropriate means of persuading iran. this shows that the range of means of influencing iran is actually very limited. however, it should be borne in mind that this will be the third resolution on iran adopted by the european parliament this year. we will also take into account the resolutions of other international organisations. what was the resonance? iran's response was clear: violation of the paris and other agreements, concealment of violations, resumption of nuclear energy development. in a resolution of 24 september, the iaea rightly pointed out that iran's actions were a source of distrust and that further solutions would be the responsibility of the un security council. this should imply that political dialogue as a deterrent against iran's provocative, provocative actions is approaching a critical threshold. however, it gives the impression that neither today's resolution nor the council's statement of 3 october shows any commitment to take the matter to the un security council. perhaps because the council and we in the european parliament are not convinced that the un security council itself wants to take decisions on iran's nuclear programme. i hope i'm wrong, but it seems that the current decisions of the international community still allow iran's ruling circles to act on their own accord.
i am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament is taking up the time of the president of the commission and commissioner macsharry to engage in political demagogy. i am from latvia, a country which was considered important long before joining the european union and also fulfilled all four fundamental freedoms of the european union. and many of those who are shot today are politically representative of those who earned top salaries in my country and other new member states because they could buy cheap property, cheap company stock, because they could pay our workers ten and many times less than their own for the same work. where were you then, the defenders of the social model? i am convinced that only competition based on the four fundamental values of the european union will prevent companies and workers in the new member states from being left in perpetual poverty, and that competition will also be the only way to maintain at least some of the high social standards in the so-called rich member states of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, according to the commission’s latest action plan on health and consumer protection, the eu must protect the public from risks and threats which are beyond the control of individuals and cannot be effectively and completely tackled by member states on their own. we have been warned that the world is facing the real threat of a dangerous influenza pandemic. effective preparedness planning includes the stockpiling of appropriate antivirals, as well as implementation by member states of the existing who vaccination recommendations during seasonal flu, in order to protect the public and at the same time increase the vaccine production capacity of the european vaccine industry. additional investment is needed for the development of prototype influenza pandemic vaccines, as a key intermediate step towards establishing a manufacturing process and the characteristics of future pandemic vaccines. last week, the eu health ministers recognised that no country can solve these problems alone. bearing in mind that the member states have very different financial resources for stockpiling vaccines and antivirals, as well as for the national advance purchase commitment to establish national pandemic vaccine needs, we have to suggest an early mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund as a precautionary instrument, allowing for pre-emptive action to be taken in preparing for an influenza pandemic. it is our belief that the solidarity fund envelope must be used now for the community’s centralised activities, including the strengthening of the european centre for disease control, as well as for member states that apply. the stakes are high and time might be short.
thank you for your clarification, commissioner. i too have been in tunisia for the last month and that is why i asked this question, but i would like to say on my part that i would like to see your answer give me more energy and precision - because the questions were quite precise - as to what specific measures to take. in tunisia, the negotiations were taking place, and there was a feeling that the ruling circles were looking rather ignorantly at the european union's ability to influence the human rights situation in the negotiations with tunisia. the european union is therefore called upon to take more decisive action.
the rapporteur. - mr president! my fellow citizens! the european parliament will vote tomorrow on the 2006 budget of the european union. the vote will be more than just a vote on the annual eu budget allocation. 2006 is the last year of the current financial perspective. the 2006 budget therefore also serves as a reference point for the next financial perspective for 2007-13. as regards the 2006 budget for the other eu institutions, the main priorities are eu enlargement and the efficient and maximum use of eu budgetary resources. the first priority concerns the successful completion of the 2004 eu enlargement round by fully integrating the representatives of the new eu member states into the eu institutions, as well as preparing for the next eu enlargement round by including bulgaria and romania. it is unacceptable that more than a year after the eu enlargement, many posts for new member states are still vacant. one of the problems to be considered in this context is the excessive bureaucracy and the slow recruitment procedures. in order to ensure the success of the next eu enlargement round, it is proposed to support all the enlargement-related posts requested by the other institutions, as well as other additional expenditure related to eu enlargement. the second priority is to use the eu budget efficiently and to the maximum extent possible. this priority covers issues such as the concentration of the eu institutions' spheres of activity for the performance of their core tasks, the support of new budget requests and posts only after the assessment of the possibility of resource and staff redistribution within the existing budget, the support of new initiatives only after their impact on the budget assessment, interinstitutional cooperation for the purpose of the economical and efficient use of budgetary resources. budgetary discipline and the rational use of eu taxpayers' money are principles supported by both budgetary decision-makers, the european parliament and the council of the eu. the eu council proposes to reduce administrative expenditure of the other institutions by eur 15 million compared to the institutions' initial requests. however, it should be noted that in many cases the reduction was made without deliberation, in particular without going into the specifics of the work and problems of the institutions. after a careful study of the budgetary demands of the other institutions, it is proposed to renew part of the budget cuts made by the eu council totalling €7.5 million. as regards the budget of the european parliament, i would first like to highlight the issue of the level of overall expenditure. following extensive discussions in the committee on budgets, and in the light of the experience of the previous year with the excessive budgetary items and the subsequent budgetary expenditure of the european parliament, it is proposed to reduce the expenditure of the european parliament's budget by eur 20 million compared to the request of the administration. i believe that the european parliament's budget should be drawn up on the basis of justified needs after careful consideration. achieving the threshold of 20% of total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself. of course, the question of the more than €200 million a year that is being spent on the extra cost of holding the european parliament in strasbourg is still relevant. the main problem is the parallel maintenance of the two european parliament buildings in brussels and strasbourg. it should be noted that this is a matter for the eu council. the european parliament's 2006 budget focuses heavily on information and communication policy ensuring access to information and better explanation of the work of the european parliament to eu citizens. particular attention should be paid to the representation of the european parliament on behalf of the eu member states in this context. several measures have already been taken. the launch of a new website for the european parliament, with a much greater emphasis on up-to-date information on the work of the european parliament in all the official languages of the european union, could be mentioned. it is proposed that the programme for visitors to the european parliament be completed in 2006 and that a special information and communication reserve be set up. i would like to conclude by returning to the question i raised at the beginning. given that 2006 is the last year of the current financial perspective, it is important that the total budget commitment for 2006, as well as the payment appropriations, correspond to the commitments undertaken by the european union, including in the context of eu enlargement. i fully agree with my colleague giovanni pitella that it is necessary to ensure that there is a sufficient volume of payment appropriations, including for the structural funds, in 2006. the council's attitude towards the eu budget for 2005, which artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations, is unacceptable. the unjustified position of the eu council has now become apparent. the european commission is preparing an amendment to the 2005 budget to increase the payment appropriations for the structural funds. if the eu council also attempts to artificially block payment appropriations in the eu budget for 2006, this would indicate the eu council's unwillingness to fully finance the commitments the eu has made under the existing financial perspective. it should be noted that this is precisely the kind of behaviour that leads to empty promises without real action, and to a growing alienation and scepticism of the eu among the population. and finally, i would like to draw commissioner gribauskaitis's special attention to the poor quality of the latvian translation of the budget prepared by the european commission. for example, budget headings 02030202 and 02030203 which concern medicinal products for the treatment of rare diseases. the commission's translation into latvian is about medicines for rats and medicines for rats. so i urge the commissioner not to be surprised. she will receive requests from latvian barons to finance their medicines, because that is what is written in the translation prepared by the european commission. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! as regards the title 'other institutions' of the 2006 budget, the following technical correction is necessary. the date 31 october 2005 mentioned in opinions nos 473 and 475 should be moved from the comments to the statement of reasons.
rapporteur. – mr president, due to technical problems i shall speak english in order that those colleagues who also have technical problems can better understand. as a result of the vote on the draft general budget, the following technical adjustments should be made. first, in paragraph 5, the amount should be eur 7.5 million. paragraph 27(b) should begin ‘to create 46 posts (21 a*, 1 temporary a*, 19 b* and 5 c*)’. in paragraph 41, the amount should be eur 3 398 000. in addition, the date mentioned in paragraphs 17, 23 and 25 should be replaced by 13 november 2005.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. the report comes at a time when citizens in the european union's member states are increasingly concerned about the processes that are caused or attributed to globalisation. the fact that the european union's development tasks are often perceived by society as a process of globalisation raises serious concerns and is another important argument for the need to develop appropriate policies to give a social dimension to globalisation processes. the process of globalisation, as the report rightly emphasises, also brings significant positive benefits, but the positive outcomes of the globalisation process that the world objectively needs may not be achieved if the social aspects are not respected in a timely manner. the outcome of the globalisation process will depend on the ability of its participants to adapt to rapidly changing conditions, and the importance of the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which is repeatedly emphasised in the report, is therefore welcome in order to enable the european union to derive maximum benefit from the globalisation process and to be accepted in public opinion in the member states. however, i believe that the report is drawn from the reality of the current situation in the european union. the endless debate on reform of the common agricultural policy shows that, for the time being, the european union can only agree on a budgetary structure that meets the requirements of the 19th century. we are witnessing the fight here in the european parliament over the services directive. we know the importance of this directive in the european union's lisbon strategy - it is one of the cornerstones of this lisbon strategy. so i think that this is where we have the greatest threats of globalisation, because in many member states of the european union, public opinion is still not ready to face the challenges of competition, even in the european union itself.
the speaker. the commissioner's honourable lady! representatives of the council, the commission! members of the house! this evening's debate on countering the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a testament to the european parliament's awareness of the need to play an active role in addressing the greatest threats to modern civilisation. it is recognised that the preparation of the report was politically and technically complex, given the global nature and specificity of the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction (wmd). but the european parliament has managed to grasp the complexity of the issue. in this context, as rapporteur, i would like to thank my colleagues in parliament, the experts of the committee on foreign affairs, the staff representative and her office, and the experts of the commission for their active and constructive participation in the drafting of the report over many months. i think the most important recognition is the concern that there is unfortunately no common understanding and concerted action among the responsible international organisations and major powers in restricting the spread of wmd and related materials and technologies. this is alarming because the most powerful international organizations and nations are simultaneously recognizing that it is the spread of wmd that poses the greatest potential threat to human security. criminal and terrorist circles are increasingly interested in ieds and materials. moreover, the threat has not diminished since the cold war, but has increased. the report therefore assesses not only the proliferation and containment policies implemented jointly by the european union and its member states, but also examines aspects of the actions of the united states, russia and other co-responsible countries. the report expressed dissatisfaction with the failure of the international community to reach agreement at the npt review conference in new york in may this year. this is seen as a serious blow to multilateralism. it is known that more than 40 priority measures proposed by the council and the commission of the european union did not receive adequate support. this is evidence of the diversity of interests, tactical thinking and action among nations with international influence. such a lack of trust does not encourage multilateral cooperation and undermines the work of the international atomic energy agency and other specialised chemical and arms control organisations. their information is often crucial to keeping the issue of weapons of mass destruction under international control. similarly, the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament, during its discussion of the report, expressed differing views on international multilateral action. for example, the current and politically sensitive iranian nuclear programme. i would like to mention one more aspect of the report which i believe is particularly relevant. i believe that the success of the current eu common strategy on the proliferation of wmd depends to a large extent on the financial aspects of the eu strategy on the proliferation of wmd available. it should be recognised that the current lack of targeted, identified funding lines is jeopardising the successful implementation of the strategy. unfortunately, neither the european parliament nor the other european institutions currently have clarity on the priorities set by the council's personal representative, as well as on the funding of the eight programmes accepted by the commission's global partnership. this is absurd, since the various measures of the proposed european union programmes on the control of proliferation of wmd, disarmament, and the destruction of weapons should, according to previous policy decisions, be allocated more than eur 900 million over the next five years. this figure, the funding, reflects the ambition of the european union's early years, but it is time to show the political will to deliver on the commitments made in the past. this means that the commission and the council should, firstly, be able to agree on the preparation of a targeted, effective financial instrument for the mfa programme in the context of the forthcoming financial perspective, both from the community budget and from the financing of the common external security policy of the council of the european union. the problems identified demonstrate the need for the involvement of the european parliament as a budgetary institution in ensuring the coherence of the european union's security strategy.
drafting of the opinion of the development committee. - madam commissioner, representatives of the council and the commission, colleagues in parliament! first, i would like to acknowledge the work done by the rapporteur, mr raül romeva i rueda, in evaluating the european union's code of conduct for the export of goods. as i was asked to form the opinion of the development committee on this matter, i would like to thank the rapporteur for agreeing to include the most important aspects of the development committee in the report. on behalf of the committee on development, i am convinced that arms exports to poor, conflict-affected countries are unacceptable, as they contribute to poverty and human rights violations. it is paradoxical that the same governments talk about ending poverty and strengthening the rule of law, yet allow salw trade to repressive regimes and countries in extreme military conflicts. it should be noted that the trade in salw has a particularly negative impact on development policies in the cotonou countries. a similar view is expressed in the millennium report. the committee on development therefore calls on the council and the commission to develop salw guidelines specifically for developing countries, stresses the need for disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration measures, updates the need for a new set of post-embargo instruments, calls on the member states of the european union, the council, the commission to encourage the african union and the african regional institutions to adopt regional and national arms export control requirements in line with the standards of the european union code. the need to make the code of conduct for the export of goods legally binding is underlined. the committee also stresses the need for a legally binding international arms trade treaty. i hope that the deve opinion, which was offered for the first time, is a significant contribution, confirming the truth that safety is the first prerequisite for development.
the speaker. i would like to thank you for your support. given that there was some disagreement here in parliament when my report was being debated, and in order to seek a compromise, i proposed some amendments to rule 34. and so the footnote should be inserted after the words: ... as stated by hans blix, that the credible threat of the use of force has played an important role in facilitating the disarmament work of unscom and unmovic. and then i'd like to cross out the rest of the paragraph. so i think it might be a proposal that the socialists who said they would abstain could also vote on this article.
the speaker. i would like to thank you for your support. there was also a wide debate on the issue of arms and armaments late last night, and given that there was a need to address some concerns about my report, i have continued to work during this time and two oral amendments are required. so after paragraph 13 there's a new chapter, and in order to allay the fears and have a common socialist support, i fully certify that the chapter's name is being changed and it's called "strengthening effective multilateralism". the second oral amendment relates to paragraph 34 and is as follows the following words are inserted after: ... takes note, as stated by dr hans blix, that the credible threat of the use of force has played an important role in facilitating the disarmament work of unscom and unmovic. therefore, the last sentence is deleted in its entirety. so this is my oral amendment. thank you for your attention. and please support!
mr president, like other speakers, i agree with the commissioner that the eu must have one of the most advanced legislative frameworks to combat discrimination. therefore, i appreciate that parliament’s amendments to the commission proposal enforce the demand that the european year of equal opportunities for all should speed up the transposition process of the two anti-discrimination directives, for which i thank the rapporteur, mrs roure. i have to say, with regret, that my country, latvia, is among those states that are delaying transposition. new member states have to be subject to infringement proceedings for violations of community law in the same way as the old member states. in that context, ngos have a vital role to play in raising awareness. the commission should ensure that especially ngos representing the groups that suffer discrimination are involved at all stages of the work in connection with the european year. i hope that the commissioner will also agree with this.
the speaker. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union's work. this week the european parliament will adopt the 2006 budget of the european union in its second - and final - reading. it will add a point to the 2006 european union budget procedure and the existing financial perspective. i am pleased that after lengthy discussions with the eu council, a compromise has been reached. this was also important because the 2006 budget serves as a reference point for the next financial perspective for 2007-13. i hope that this week the governments of the member states will be able to agree in the eu council on the eu council's position on the financial perspective. i invite the eu council to take into account the views and ideas expressed in the european parliament's resolution when discussing this issue. the main priorities of the 2006 budget of the other eu institutions are enlargement and the efficient and maximum use of the eu budget. the first priority concerns the successful completion of the 2004 enlargement round and preparations for the next enlargement round to include bulgaria and romania. unfortunately, we have to return to the fact that more than a year after the eu enlargement, many of the posts for new member states are still vacant. one of the problems to be considered in this context is the excessive bureaucracy and the slow recruitment procedures. in line with the approach adopted at first reading, it is proposed that all enlargement-related posts requested by the other institutions, as well as other enlargement-related additional expenditure, be supported at second reading to ensure the success of the next enlargement of the eu. the second priority is to use the eu budget efficiently and to the maximum extent possible. this priority covers issues such as the concentration of the eu institutions' spheres of activity for the performance of their core tasks, the support of new budget requests and new posts only after the assessment of the possibility of resource and staff redistribution within the existing budget, the support of new initiatives only after their impact on the budget has been assessed, interinstitutional cooperation for the purpose of the economical and efficient use of budgetary resources. budgetary discipline and the rational use of eu taxpayers' money are principles supported by both budgetary decision-makers, the european parliament and the council of the eu. the eu council, at its second reading, proposes to return to its original position, namely to reduce administrative expenditure by eur 15 million for the other institutions compared to the institutions' initial requests. it should be noted that in many cases the reductions were made without deliberation, in particular without going into the specifics of the work and problems of the institutions. however, a compromise was reached at the conciliation meeting and the eu council will not be able to override the other institutions' expenditure levels as decided at the european parliament's first reading. the european parliament therefore proposes in its second reading to maintain the level of the european parliament's first reading expenditure by renewing part of the expenditure cuts made by the eu council, totalling eur 7.5 million. finally, i would like to return to the question of the financial perspective. during the 2006 eu budgetary conciliation meeting, the eu council and, in particular, the uk presidency, focused excessively on one issue only - the minimum amount of payment appropriations. it is only to be hoped that at this week's eu council summit, national governments will be able to put eu affairs in a broader perspective, without reducing everything to a single issue - the minimum amount of payment appropriations. this trend was particularly marked by the unacceptable offer of the uk presidency to find a compromise between the old member states at the expense of the new member states by reducing by 10% the amount of eu funds available to the new member states. it should be recalled that the luxembourg presidency has already proposed a significant reduction in the amount of the eu's regional policy appropriations compared to the one announced by the european commission. fortunately, this british proposal has already been withdrawn. it is only to be hoped that the british presidency has serious intentions of reaching a compromise on the financial perspective this year and that the next proposal will be better.
half a year ago, many in this room and in the new member states looked with hope and sympathy to the new, dynamic british presidency and its leader. we heard about the vision of european competitiveness in the world and the leveling of socioeconomic conditions in europe. in luxembourg, several new member states also offered to reduce their financial requirements if the large countries could not find a compromise. and unfortunately, that was the basis for the british financial perspective proposal, which simultaneously reduced the budget and reduced the british rebate a little bit. this is not about unused kilometres or uncreated jobs in the new europe. the point is that you have shown our people that the principle of solidarity is only beautiful words. we wanted to see our people living a little closer to first-class europe by 2013. our people in latvia, my people, do not want to be just cheap labour for your labour market and do not want to be a cheap tourist destination for your cheap airline tourists. thank you.
the speaker. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great success. at the beginning i just wanted to join mr pittell in thanking all those who worked on the 2006 budget and to join mr pittell in saying that it is indeed a good result and that the 2006 budget is one which is in line with the interests of the european union. and i also have one technical correction that relates to section 11, amendment 193 of the european community law. so there are missing notes because of technical problems, and the text of the notes is as follows: 'for this section, a reduction of 3,6% has been made in respect of staff posts, i.e. five new posts in the it sector four b3 and one c1 and sixteen staff posts for romania and bulgaria ten a7, two b3 and four c1.'
