i am in favour of this constitution, but i think it is good that we have members in this parliament who are against it. let me tell you why. it is not that i agree with the arguments they put forward, but rather that i think many of their arguments are based on erroneous or even false premises. but because without a voice against, we end up in a monotonous debate where everyone is in favour and where we lack objective analysis. there is no better way to win the argument about europe than by having the courage to confront the arguments for and against. we should take the arguments of the opponent seriously and treat them with respect. but we should not be intimidated or shy away from opposers' arguments, much less ignore them. we should not expect to win the argument if we do not expose ourselves to an open debate, otherwise we end up saying we have won the game when in fact the game has only one team playing. after all, when one compares the arguments in favour of this constitution with the arguments against, it is not too long before one concludes that the constitution has far more to be good than bad and deserves the support of european citizens. there is no doubt that if we make people understand what the constitution means, people will be more in favour of it than against it, because they will understand how european unity is a logical, meaningful and in their interest step. and so it is crucial that everyone in this chamber, everyone in this parliament who is in favour of this constitution should engage directly with the people to see that the people understand it and support it. this support will be based on a confrontation of arguments and thus on a more open, balanced and democratic debate.
almost 50 years after the signing of the treaty of rome, which established the european economic union, europe will finally have its constitution. for the first time, 450 million citizens and 25 nations will be united by this document that defines the values and principles of this european union. the ratification of this constitution will lead us to a more democratic europe. the charter of fundamental human rights has been introduced in this constitution and thus the rights of every person are listed and every citizen can invoke this charter whenever he thinks that his rights are being violated. social rights are also a priority and so in a legal order, the right to education, the right of every citizen to have access to information, protection in the event of unfair dismissal and the right to have review requests sanctioned in the event of class discrimination have all been defined and can be acted upon. the role of the european parliament has thus been considerably strengthened and the parliament together with the council will be responsible for ratifying almost all documents. the role of national parliaments will also be strengthened, as they will be responsible for seeing that any agreement between the european union and the member states is respected and thus national parliaments will have sufficient powers to put pressure on the european commission to revise its proposals. in other words, the european constitution will help to make europe more efficient. europe, built in stages, and based on treaties concluded over time, will henceforth be truly one europe. the integration of the charter of fundamental human rights, the clear recognition of european values and objectives now give us the opportunity, as european citizens, to call this document 'the european constitution'. i will vote in favour. i call on my colleagues to do the same for the good of european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. yes, of course the commission has such power, and i can reassure you that the commission will use all its power to guarantee, stimulate and encourage member states to fully implement all directives in the common european interest.
commissioner, i will use your mother tongue to address an outdated issue: of illegal immigration. the illegal landings will not wait for us to have a common strategy before we proceed in the mediterranean. surely, if they don't continue even now, it's because the desperate ones are at the bottom of the sea. so i would like to ask what the commission is doing and what is planned in the near future to help countries on the border of the european union - i am referring in particular to my own country, malta - to provide aid, to give a decent welcome to illegal immigrants? how much money will be allocated to this?
counsel. i take note of the suggestion made by the honourable member. i think we should perhaps look a little further ahead and create a european coastguard. it is in this spirit that the border control agency is being set up. but i also draw attention to the fact that even though the coastguard is very effective, the problem will remain. i think that a broader approach is needed, including strong dialogue and cooperation with third countries, and better and more effective controls in transit and origin countries. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i come from a country near the sea, on the border of the european union - malta - and i understand that what you are saying is a step in the right direction in the 'medium' and 'long term', but we must understand that we are facing a crisis. the people of my island everyday, from april onwards will be seeing people sharing all the time, day after day. and many countries, like many border countries, do not have the adequate resources to properly welcome these people and then repatriate them. this is a european problem, not a problem of the border countries. i would like the council to tell us what it is doing to commit in concrete terms even funds so that our country and other countries on the border can deal with this problem in a decent way.
allow me to congratulate commission president jose emmanuel barroso on the commission's legislative and programme that he has presented. europe has grown to 25 new member states, and i am one of those members of parliament who comes from a country that was part of the last enlargement. europe is as it rightly should be; europe has an important voice in global decision-making. and we must maintain this role by continuing to strengthen the foundations laid by schuman, de gasperi and monnet, based on the principles that have brought the european union to its present state. the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity should be pervasive in the work of the european union. it is vital that economic growth is equitable across all regions of europe. europe has a duty to help those who for whatever reason have been left behind so that they can keep up and grow their economies. a strong economy translates into closer cooperation between member countries and here i would also like to congratulate the commission on the implementation of a new economic strategy aimed at creating more than six million jobs. the lisbon strategy should be a top priority for all of us working in the european institutions. we must be able to turn this strategy into jobs and prosperity, and this can only be achieved if we succeed in reducing red tape and creating a healthy business environment. we parliamentarians must encourage initiatives that lead to job creation on our continent. european citizens expect us to improve europe's standard of living and we must therefore do our utmost. the legislative work programme presented gives a clear indication of the commission's vision for the coming years. in close cooperation with parliament, i think we can turn this new programme into benefits for all european citizens.
on behalf of the group. thank you mr president. i begin by congratulating mrs veld on her report, which i think is another step in the way of this union not trying to continue to harm everyone in a way that ultimately does not benefit anyone. instead we are moving towards a principle of subsidiarity, where we recognise the needs of countries and regions and localities. i think that anyone who believes in balance recognises that the market economy has many advantages but at the same time also recognises the shortcomings that cannot be allowed to go on without the one who is entrusted with power and with the management not moving. there are certainly cases of abuse, but there are many other cases where, if properly regulated, state aid is the social soul that reaches where the cold calculations of market reasoning fail. the ultimate success of this europe and its member countries cannot be measured by economic statistics alone. a healthy economy should be the means to the real end, that of giving our families a decent life and a decent job in a better environment. of course, any aid granted must be given within an agreed framework that reflects the realities of the different countries. to prepare this framework we need to involve everyone and emphasise 'everyone' - the social partners, trade unions, consumers and the private sector. and we are not talking about good consumers who are spending on consumers, good spending on the 'taxpayers', but good remembering also in the minorities. let me give you an example: the amendment i tabled and which was gladly accepted in this report, makes it easier to provide aid even by air, in addition to inter-island sea. let me give you an example of why. at present, citizens of the island of gozo, to cross to the main island of countries, malta, by 'helicopter' in a journey of 12 minutes in total, have to pay much more in the market economy than a plane ticket between london and brussels. imagine how this region can develop without some state aid. we must move forward from where we have come today. i only look at shipyards in countries where the government is trying to bend european union regulations to shut them down. despite the demonisation of these people, these sectors and enterprises have a lot of work and a lot of commitment to give when we are talking about an era of more technical skills. other large countries of the european union have gone behind the military to subsidize this sector; we can't. some say these subsidies are against european union law. i say: then change the laws.
mr president, i am disappointed that amendment 7 of this report was rejected by the committee on transport and tourism. i must stress that i am fully in favour of the principle that ship-source pollution must be combated. however, we must be more sensible in applying this principle. we seem to have forgotten that the hazards of the sea can at times cause accidents in spite of all the precautions that one can take. it is, therefore, unjust that shipowners, masters and crew members who have taken all reasonable measures to prevent pollution resulting from an accident should be treated in the same way as people who have committed intentional pollution, or pollution resulting from reckless or negligent behaviour. there are two reasons why i believe this approach is illogical. firstly, because it goes beyond, if it is not contrary to, marpol. we should be making an effort to improve the effectiveness of international conventions and not seek to compete with them or work at a tangent to them. because of the very nature of the maritime sector, international conventions have proved to be good and effective tools. let us continue to use them. secondly, it is illogical, because it places shipping in the european union at a disadvantage when compared to shipping from outside european union waters. at a time when we are striving to improve competitiveness and create jobs, we have to be careful not to legislate in a way that creates a disincentive for the important maritime sector to stay here in europe. i am aware that a lot has been done to reach a compromise on this issue and i thank the rapporteur for this. however, i suspect that there remains an insufficient appreciation of the real impact of these provisions. we all agree on the need to regulate ship-source pollution, but in doing so we must, and should, adopt a practical approach that can help us reach our goals in an effective yet pragmatic manner.
mr president, there is a very well known english saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i hope that this directive is not one of them. obviously, pollution is a maritime catastrophe and we all agree on that. my country, malta, is highly susceptible because it is dependent on tourism, and our maritime philosophy has always been appreciated, especially as we were one of the forerunners with relation to certain theories regarding the common heritage of mankind, especially with regard to the sea bed. so, no one can accuse us of putting our national interest before that of the european union – and i will explain why. i do not think in all sincerity that this directive will reduce pollution. why? up to now, i have not been given a direct and concrete answer as to whether this directive will affect ships that are not registered in countries within the european union. if it will not, what will the effect be? the effect will be that ships currently registered in greece, cyprus and malta will migrate to other flag countries. i would appreciate it if this could be clarified because, as far as i have been informed by my government, the law as it stands discriminates between flags of european and non-european states. if this is the case, this would go against the international convention. how will you, commissioner, enforce it? i would appreciate it if this could be answered in the conclusions.
mr president, on a point of order, the commissioner has misquoted me. he has no right to misquote me. my intention was clear: i did not refer in any way to discharges, whether negligent or intentional, within home ports or home waters, and he knows that. he quoted me as saying that the discrimination that would be created between ships of a third country and ships flying member states' flags was applicable to discharges in home waters, when he knows very well that i did not say that. i asked, and i still await his answer, whether, with regard to discharges made outside home waters, there is discrimination between ships flying flags of european nations and those flying flags of third countries. i should like the commissioner to answer that question, and not a question that i did not ask.
the measures taken by the european union towards the mediterranean have sometimes not always been sufficient to render a euro-mediterranean policy positive and concrete. a clear example for me is the tragedy of illegal/irregular immigration that exists alarmingly in the mediterranean. i believe that the european union could have dealt with this phenomenon with more energy and urgency. this is not a situation unique to this region and the principle of 'burden-sharing' rather than 'burden-shifting' should therefore be adopted. this is an international 'issue' and therefore requires an international solution, possibly joint initiatives between the united nations and the european union. while i appreciate that there has recently been more commitment on the part of the council and the commission, i hope that there will also be the necessary funds to turn these intentions into effective results. the barcelona process was undoubtedly fundamental to giving euro-mediterranean policy its due importance. but it may be that, like the lisbon agenda, it is time to review this process to see first and foremost where and how we have succeeded in achieving our objectives, such as the creation of a free industrial trade area in the mediterranean. i think we need to give this process a new lease of life.
it is true that the european council will focus on the lisbon strategy and on the stability pact. but let us admit that in the shadow of this discussion, there will also be the question of the financial perspective which is linked to lisbon and the stability pact - because it is ultimately the financial means that the european union will have in the coming years that will determine whether and to what extent we will succeed in turning mr barroso's vision of europe into action. and here we must remember that the new member countries still have a low standard of living compared to the european average and, despite this, they are still expected to implement the reforms required in the lisbon strategy as well as by the stability pact. we must also remember that the new countries are experiencing a certain fatigue, a certain 'fatigue', from the process of reforms that does not cut anything. suffice it to say that they have been going through a reform process for several years - first to prepare for joining the european union and, now that they have joined, they are facing further reforms, this time more of a budgetary and fiscal nature in preparation for the introduction of the euro. and if that is not enough, we now also have the reforms required by the lisbon strategy. in other words, a process of reforms is not going to cut anything. this does not mean that the reform process should be stopped. more than that. it does mean, however, that the new countries must not feel alone in this journey; they feel that someone is helping them. and that is precisely what the european union's cohesion policy can do. and that is why the financial means that the european union will have in the coming years will determine whether we really want the new member countries to be truly integrated; if we really want them to adopt the euro and if we really want them to quadruple their economic development and create jobs as the lisbon strategy is telling us to do. as mr barroso himself has said, we cannot have more europe with less money.
mr commissioner, i do not think you need anyone to tell you what to do and what not to do; i think i hit the nail on the head when i talked about the strategy to be used. let me tell you all this as a man who lives in the neighboring country of libya, just three quarters of a mile from their coast, i live in malta. the point, the key to the solution in my opinion as a man who frequently goes to libya and knows the libyan mentality as it is in these countries. it is direct contact with people, with the people, direct contact especially with the families of the victims. they are going through a great tragedy. i make it as a clear statement - i do not agree with any death sentence either in libya, or in the united states or any other country in the world. but the key to everything is these relatives of the victims and the work that needs to be done in general, in my opinion, in the libyan health system, but in particular also socially and psychologically with these families. we must remember that those who are victims of aids in certain countries, i would say even in europe, but especially certain other countries, are subject to a great stigma. they have experienced the death of a family member, often their own child, they have experienced a great trauma, they believe, i say unfairly, that these five people killed their children and they are suffering from the stigma. secondly, if the court confirms the guilt of these people but changes the sentence of these people, i think that the idea should also be considered, both by the council and by the commission, of a prisoner exchange as often as prisoners in the member states of the european union are willing, are ready, to go to serve their sentence in libya. i think that's part of the solution of things that can happen.
president of the council. i think that what was decided in one member state was the responsibility of that member state. the european union has a clear interest in further efforts to improve border controls. this is one of the objectives of the agency which is being set up. we must fight against illegal immigration, but also against the possibilities of employing workers in an illegal and clandestine way. there's a call effect going on. if there were no possibility of illegal work, illegal immigrants would probably be less attracted to europe.
is the presidency aware that the maltese government is not allowing journalists, either local or international, to visit detention centres where immigrants are being held? are you aware that there were damning reports on the state of those immigration centres by the council of europe? i agree with the detention policy, but the state of these places is indescribable. do you think it is right that journalists should not be allowed to report, not just without restriction but even if they apply for permission to be given access to those places?
mr president, who could possibly disagree that the tool for promoting growth and competitiveness in europe is a sustainable research and development policy? it is not a choice; it has become a necessity. europe has already lost its pole position to japan and america. the aim that we are promoting, that is, 3% of gdp within a period of five years, is ambitious. we are also stating that two-thirds of that funding is to come from the private sector – let us hope. but as with everything in life, it all depends on money. this is where the general discussion on the budget comes in. however, we must realise that if we do not invest, the rich will become less rich and the poor will become poorer. the policy of investment in research and development is not a matter of choice. as i said, it has become a necessity.
during the past weekend, on two separate occasions, two lifeless bodies were pulled from the sea in malta. in one case a body was washed ashore from the sea. the second case occurred yesterday, another body was found a few miles off the maltese coast and brought in by the armed forces. there is little doubt that these two bodies were those of two people who were victims of human trafficking - that criminal, serious and heinous crime that is making the tragedy of illegal immigration in the mediterranean much more difficult. and so it is very timely that a debate like this one today is discussing what europe will do in concrete terms to alleviate this problem. the hague programme leading up to 2010 is an ambitious programme that is now indeed leading to a common policy on asylum and immigration. i would therefore like to congratulate the european commission on its proposal, which deals in particular with the question of burden sharing. the commission's proposal, in particular the one to set up a dedicated fund, is therefore a concrete step forward in institutionalising the obligation that when it comes to the issue of emigration the burden should be shared by all and not be borne only by those who are directly exposed to this phenomenon. it is unfortunate that the european external border agency has not yet started its work when there is such an urgent need to start seeing a common effort in this area. i also agree with the commission on the importance it is attaching to this policy in budgetary terms, especially in view of the new financial perspectives. on the other hand, i have reservations about how much we should talk about the extension of competences, including decisions by means of codecision in the field of legal immigration, when there is still a long way to go in the field of illegal immigration, especially in countries that are currently very much affected by the problems and burden of illegal immigration and need to show that europe is capable of meeting the challenge it faces effectively.
on behalf of the group: the following table shows the number of samples taken: other i will speak about the general report and start by greeting commissioner callas because i think he has started on the right track in his work, both for what is his responsibility and for the way he is dealing with us in the european parliament. but i would like to point out to the commissioner right away that it may be that this year we are being nice to him also because it is his first year and it is difficult to put the burden of what they have done before on him. in the report on the general budget, we are making a favourable recommendation. this does not mean that we are happy at all. more than that. we believe that much more needs to be done to tighten controls on the budget of the european union. after all, we are not talking about money that fell from the sky but about money that is taxes from the people. this year's general report says that the das system should be reformed to stop it being a frustrating and unattainable target. but we are also putting a lot of emphasis on how much controls are being done not so much at european level but at national level. national authorities need to be more accountable for how european union funds are spent, when they are spent in different countries or regions. i am very much afraid that when it comes to using european union funds, governments are not being serious enough in the controls they carry out. it is not right that while national authorities are very careful when spending national financial resources, they are not so careful when spending money handed over to them by the european union. the national authorities must therefore realise that if they do not introduce the necessary controls they risk losing funds. for our part, we are making a series of detailed recommendations in our report to ensure that money spent at national level is spent seriously and with all the necessary controls. we are also reminding the commission that even when european funds are spent by national authorities it cannot wash its hands of it. after all, the commission still retains overall responsibility for the budget.
madam president, we have all been talking about ‘when’ and ‘if’. i am going to use a different word. pandemics are not the exception, they have become almost the rule. but they do not obey any rules in themselves. they are difficult to identify before they break out and we are therefore up against an unseen problem. you have called it a problem, commissioner, but it is more than that. we have to use all our resources. we have to use our resources for production and our resources for research, and i would appreciate if the commissioner could perhaps tell us more about this particular issue. the international scientific community has a role to play; and it is important to have reliable networking so that all the stakeholders can cooperate when the pandemic breaks out, because, as everybody knows, although we may try and have military exercises as an example of what may happen, it is extremely difficult to anticipate when it will break out.
there is no doubt that europe has succeeded in establishing a social model among the best in the world. we must work to preserve this model. no one is saying we shouldn't. but the parliamentary report before us goes too far and could create serious problems especially in member countries which have not yet reached a certain standard of living. why should we take away the right of workers to want a raise, especially in new countries where you have to work more, extra, to increase your income? what will workers who have a bank loan on their home do? it is good to have higher and higher social standards. but we must understand that we are living in reality, not in theory. at a time when we are talking so much about the lisbon strategy to grow the economy and create jobs, we must not make laws less flexible. workers want us to make laws to increase work, not to prevent them from working more than 8 hours 'overtime' a week. who are we to take that right away from them? i'll be the first to agree to a shorter working week. but if the wage is enough to live on, in some countries we are not there yet. so let's use common sense. if someone abuses the opt-out and works excessive hours with health and safety risks, then let's attack the abuser. but we do not deny workers the right to choose whether they want to work more.
i voted against the removal of the option of 'opt out' for an individual worker to work more than eight hours a week for practical reasons in line with the needs of maltese workers and industry. this is a matter of consensus among all the social partners in our country. i am in favour of limiting working hours and creating a better balance between work and family time. however, you must understand that in our country there is no rental market, while land is scarce and very expensive. each family nucleus, especially the young, spends many thousands of pounds to have a place to sleep. they take out loans for years at large, paying a large part of their total income, including overtime, to buy their apartment or house. a large number of these families are in a situation where, not because they want to, but because the market demands it, they depend substantially on their income from the evening not for a whim but to meet these 'commitments'. the most vulnerable families are those with low incomes. if we limit them to the evening, we will not be helping them but crucifying them further. and who will provide the money they need? the european union? the labour party was aware of this problem and we are here to try to solve it. i'm afraid the road is uphill.
mr president, i wish to explain why i did not vote in accordance with the party line on most of the amendments to the cercas report. the reason was that, after taking into account informal meetings with the largest trade unions in my country, it emerged that, at present, malta is not in an economic position to be able to implement the directive on working time. as explained by my colleague who has just addressed this house, the lower-income social classes would be unable to honour their commitments unless their incomes were supplemented through overtime and other allowances.
in writing. in principle i do agree with the majority of views and arguments expressed in this report. however in malta many workers work long hours because they need to do so either to make financial ends meet or to fulfil other commitments. in certain areas the directive is inflexible and would have adverse repercussions on our small island economy and to all its stakeholders. the implementation of this report could damage our attempts to try to retain and possible create jobs without eroding the social model. workers choice and competitiveness, on the one hand, and the effective delivery of public health care and safety on the other, are both vital for the wellbeing of the maltese people and it is not possible to trade one of against the other. its crucial for malta therefore, to retain the individual's right to choose to opt out. this position enjoys broad consensus in malta, including the trade unions. a wide spectrum of our population do not see the report as being beneficial for malta. for these reasons i feel therefore, that is not yet opportune for me to vote in favour of this report.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, allow me first of all to express my thanks to the rapporteur for his report. broadly speaking, we are in agreement with the main thrust of his arguments. naturally, we agree with his view that more needs to be done to improve the rationalisation, accountability and disciplinary rigour of the budget. an area which seems to be problematic is that of staff recruitment. i suppose it would be correct to assume that staff requests were based on justified and realistic needs. consequently, it is very difficult to understand or justify the delays in the selection and recruitment process relating to enlargement. action has to be taken to rectify the situation and to address this pressing issue. having said that, however, i do not agree that an interim, makeshift solution of employing temporary staff should be considered a viable option or alternative. whilst i can appreciate the reasoning behind this argument, i fear that this type of compromise, if accepted, could lead to a malpractice which may feature occasionally in our future budgets. the rapporteur has, moreover, put forward for our consideration a reduction in the margin of the contingency reserve. in principle, we agree that appropriations should relate to specific activities and we should avoid cancellation of appropriations at the end of the financial year. nevertheless, we have to take into consideration the challenges we face in the near future and the uncertainties which are still evident, relating among others to multilingual services, property investment, the statute for members, as well as the adoption of the statute for members’ assistants, which has our full backing and support. in view of this, it would be prudent to agree with the amendment proposing that the final decision on this item should be taken at a later stage. in fact, i think that the rapporteur did well to postpone the final decision on the gentleman’s agreement relating to the 20% level of heading 5. i agree that this benchmark is not tied to an irrefutable and absolute fixed law and we should not be hesitant to challenge and review this agreement if we are convinced that it is necessary. however, i do not think that this is the case and it would be inadvisable to do away with these guidelines now. ironically enough, if used effectively, the stability of the 20% guideline could provide some sound budgetary rigour and efficiency. naturally, we support the arguments that to achieve budgetary efficiency we have to take a critical look at all forms of expenditure, make more efficient use of resources and avoid waste and duplication of functions. we should continue to focus on our core services and activities, which leads me to another important point. we have not as yet, albeit it with some justification, experienced the full impact of the ‘raising the game’ exercise. it seems to me that to date only a few objectives have been achieved. given that the necessary structures are in place, we would realistically expect that in the coming budgetary year most of the targets would be met and a reform implemented to eliminate overt and covert bottlenecks. on another level, we very much welcome the proposed improvement in the visitors’ service. from my very short and limited experience in the european parliament, i think that the programmes are a practical and direct tool for improving the perception of the eu. in addition, they have a multiplier effect, which should not be underestimated. i also warmly welcome the proposal to improve the strategy on communication and information. over the years, we have not dealt with this issue adequately. whether real or perceived, we know that there is a barrier between the eu and its citizens. more could and should be done on this important aspect. if we really want our citizens to feel that the european parliament is their parliament, and that it represents their aspirations, then an effective information and communication strategy has to be implemented swiftly. that should be one of our main priorities. if we fail in this, we will have failed in a very real and fundamental key objective. lastly, i congratulate mr dombrovskis again, not just for his report but because he as a new member, coming from a new country, has provided us with an example that shows that this integration process can be productive and efficient.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is a report on a directive that for the first time directly addresses the concept of terrorist financing, as distinct from money laundering. we are in fact talking about two completely different processes. the money laundering... there is no interpretation! that is what we get when we are told that maltese is an official language of the european union! so there are no interpreters here; we have no interpreters in committee; we have no translations of documents; and now we are not even able to speak our language in plenary. i am not going to continue to deliver my speech, mr president. no way. i know. you should take the necessary action on this. what is the use of having it down on paper that maltese is an official language? (applause) i would like to thank i thank the commission and the council; i thank mr nassauer for his sterling work on the report, but either give us our language, or it is thank you and goodbye.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. other as the report before us rightly points out, there is still a long way to go in the fight against fraud, particularly in the use of european union funds and also in the smuggling of cigarettes. but i think it would be wrong not to also recognise the valuable work being done in the fight against fraud, including for example, in particular, in the new member countries where substantial progress has been made by the national authorities in this fight. i would also like to salute the valuable work being done by olaf which is instrumental in this fight and it is good to record that we are finally starting to reap the rewards of the investment we made in setting up olaf, but i am too afraid that there are still too many people trying to put the cart before the horse in this office. olaf was set up under the auspices of the three institutions but there is no reason why it should not evolve into a fully independent office, indeed if we want it to be more effective we need to let olaf operate independently. and to be effective, olaf needs less interference and less political pressure both on matters of appointments within it and in the investigations it is carrying out. i would remind you that when we talk about fighting fraud we are not just talking about protecting the financial interests of the european union or national public finances. moreover, we are also talking about the interest of citizens as 'tax payers' who want to see that the tax burden is borne fairly and does not increase because someone evades tax by smuggling or abusing european union funds. at a time when europe is going through a difficult period of public opinion, we must do our utmost to be more effective in the fight against fraud.
mr president, it is true that legal and illegal immigration are linked, as this report rightly shows, but we can hardly address the issue of legal immigration effectively until and unless we achieve a measure of control on illegal immigration. there are two major issues of very grave concern here. the first is that illegal immigrants themselves are risking their lives, and indeed hundreds are losing their lives, turning the mediterranean sea into a graveyard and putting us all to shame. even if they do reach europe, whether in malta or italy, their ordeal is not yet over; indeed, it is just beginning. the second grave concern is the significant toll that this problem is taking on the countries concerned, particularly on malta and italy. in the case of malta the situation is even more precarious because of sheer numbers. last week 56 immigrants landed in malta, but 56 immigrants in malta is proportionally equivalent to more than 5 600 immigrants landing in italy. that is the scale of the problem that malta is facing. this year we have reason to be optimistic because for the first time we are seeing the european union finally responding to our repeated calls for action. in particular, i want to refer to last week’s decision of the council of ministers to embark immediately on cooperation with libya to stem the flow of immigrants and to prevent more deaths, not least with the setting-up of a taskforce to patrol the mediterranean sea. so finally the european union is starting to move. let us hope that it moves in time. i am very grateful to commissioner frattini for his very genuine efforts, and on behalf of the people of malta i would call upon him to act decisively and urgently. we are counting on you, commissioner, to address our very serious concerns.
mr president, i am a believer in three things: the european economy, european industry and the ability of european industry to be competitive. unfortunately, however, we often applaud the notion of competitivity, while supporting initiatives which erode that very competitivity. for instance, the commissioner has rightly indicated that we sometimes tend to be over-regulated and this adds to bureaucracy and to the cost of production. sometimes we are not aware that we are eroding competitivity by our own ideas and legislation. recently, we lowered the limit in the working time directive. this is obviously something which is paradoxical to competitivity. sometimes we talk about investments in technological innovation and we are dependent on private-public partnership. that is the way the argument is put forward. europe is not an ideal model for private-public partnership. we try to restrict research on the basis of vague moral issues. finally, as well as encouraging further investment in innovation and research, there is a trend against patents. we must realise that we have to choose our priorities. (applause)
i would like to inform this house that during this week the maltese parliament will pass a resolution on the ratification of the european constitutional treaty. the vote, which is expected to be unanimous, will bring malta to join the eleven other countries that have already given their approval to ratify the european constitution. but for malta the ratification of the european constitution has a very particular meaning because this will be the first time that the two main parties in malta will vote together and in a united way in favour of the european union. malta has endured 15 years of division over the question of whether or not to join the european union, and that division will finally be healed this week as the maltese parliament votes in favour of the european constitution with the approval of both sides of the chamber. thus for malta the european constitution not only means a step towards european unity but also means a new chapter of national consensus in malta on europe. thank you.
the introduction of the euro was among the most important events in the history of the european union, but it was accompanied by not insignificant mistakes, as evidenced by the currency's declining popularity among european peoples. we, as new countries, have the advantage that we can learn from these mistakes. first we need to look at the effect on the cost of living, although statistics show that the cost of living has only increased by a very small average with the introduction of the euro, with all this as my colleagues have said, when you go deeper you realize that the prices of goods and services that european citizens use every day have increased substantially. secondly, the campaign on the euro must not be centred on the cheap, but on consumer protection and against abusive price increases. it cannot be that the currency's core is another occasion for a few irresponsible traders to take the opportunity to raise prices more than is justified. thirdly, the need for broad consultation between the social partners on the adoption of the euro. if you look at what happened in malta, the decision to enter erm2 from now on was taken unilaterally by the government without any kind of consultation, least of all on the core rate. this is the ideal recipe for future more resilient drilling. this is not the way things are supposed to be. i believe that the euro project is important for the european union and for the new countries, but it must be done without excessive haste, whereas this haste, as they say, is the cat's meow and only the little ones suffer from this haste.
mr president, the debate on computer-implemented innovations has been an interesting, passionate debate, but unfortunately most of the contributors have taken either a black or a white position. everybody realises that this is an extremely complex issue. referring to it in biblical terms does not help because it continues to put the various arguments into compartments. on the one hand, we have heard, with regard to this directive, that if we do not come down on the side of patents in general, we will stifle innovation and make europe less competitive. therefore, we will be going against what we have been trying to achieve through the lisbon agenda. on the other hand, we have heard that if there is regulation of patents, this will add to bureaucracy and affect the consumer. according to one speaker, that will be a threat to democracy. i personally believe that we have to view the whole issue globally. first of all, it is pointless for us to concentrate in europe on this particular matter without taking into consideration the entire matter of patents. secondly, as regards europe’s position in a globalised world, it is pointless for us to legislate whilst not being part of an international legislative structure which encourages other continents and developing or developed countries to participate on an international plane.
the rapporteur . the fisheries fund is a fundamental tool for the fisheries sector in the years ahead. as everyone knows, fishing is a very important industry for the european union, one that provides the livelihoods of thousands of families who depend on this important activity in almost all the eu member states. the european fisheries fund is an innovative project which will implement the decisive objectives of reforming the common fisheries policy in order to simplify and decentralise the system of allocating funds, in order to meet the challenges facing the european union with the entry of the ten new member states. the european fisheries fund respects the fundamental principles of all the other structures, namely subsidiarity, pluriannual programming and scrutiny, partnership and part-financing. it is positive that the assistance from the proposed fund for european fisheries will be based on integrated local action centred on a relevant territorial strategy that analyses each local situation separately. firstly, it provides a financial instrument that is an integral part of the common fisheries policy, in particular to accompany resource management and help to repair production structures and create the ideal conditions for their sustainable development. secondly, to adhere to the principles of cohesion which allow for different treatment of the different regions of the european union according to their level of development and prosperity. the european parliament's committee on fisheries has undergone a detailed consultation process. we have met with all those concerned and involved in the sector, we have listened to the fishermen and we have listened to the representatives of the member countries and we wanted this report to finally really reflect the needs of the sector. the creation of the european fisheries fund, which is intended to go hand in hand with reform of the fisheries policy, was welcomed by the member states, but some aspects raised some concern about the fact that the fund does not adequately address the renovation of vessels. the representatives proposed that the draft regulation should include the possibility of fleet renewal and modernisation while allowing for the construction of new boats that do not involve an increase in fishing effort. the general opinion is that the commission has overlooked the environmental aspect and ignored the fact that certain measures could put the fisheries sector in a disastrous situation. it is possible, however, to reach a more constructive and balanced compromise with the help of scientific research. in order to strike a balance between the conservation of resources and the socio-economic viability of the sector. i believe that the report we will be voting on tomorrow reflects well the needs of all those operating in the sector. we want to send a strong message to both the commission and the sector and we want the fisheries sector to remain sustainable and viable in the years to come. i believe it is fundamental for us to agree on the principles that will allocate funds to the fishing industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european fisheries fund, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january. therefore, when comparing with the past, it is evident that each country will receive a lower percentage of funds. environmental protection is a very worrying factor and excessive use of precaution leads to overprotection. it is also worth mentioning the grants that will be made possible by this fund. we wanted to remain flexible through the report, so we appreciate that the european people are expecting us to cut red tape. i believe that all those involved in drawing up the report took this into account and worked hard to eliminate this factor. as i said before, we have reached agreement on a very important point concerning the renewal of boats, we have reached agreement on the modernisation of the fleet and the renewal of coastal boats and we need a fleet that is competitive and efficient for the time to come so that the sector remains truly sustainable. as mentioned, the european fisheries committee has already mentioned several opinions on this subject and different aspects of the proposal such as the problems for sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and fleet and implementation related questions have been considered. as rapporteur, i would say that i am satisfied with the final result. i believe that this report has succeeded in summarising the most important points and i also believe that this report has the necessary political strength to ensure that the fisheries sector remains viable and sustainable both financially and environmentally. mr president, i would like to conclude by recalling that we had a timetable that was cut in half in order to be able to get to today and that if it had not been for the help of my group coordinator, my group adviser and a number of other people, especially the representatives of the commission and my personal staff, i do not think we would have got as far as we have got today. i thank everyone for their help.
mr president, the commissioner does not need any of us to tell her what is going on in belarus. at the same time, i believe that you are on our side, commissioner. however, please let us get things going. that is the plea that we are all jointly making. rules are a means to an end, not an end in themselves. we cannot tell the people in belarus that we cannot help them at the moment because we have to comply with difficult rules. let us change the rules. one of the major players in making the rules and ensuring their observance is parliament. let us see what we can do. we would all like to establish concrete commitments with regard to the radio station project, direct assistance for the families of victims of the regime – they are in dire straits – and thirdly and most importantly, a concrete, realistic timetable. i understand what you mean when you refer to a timetable which will begin, hopefully, after the summer and continue for the foreseeable future, but we should have a concrete timetable of specific events over the next 12 months.
many of us, if not all of us, believe that the internal market is the political and economic backbone of the european union, and we cannot allow the money earmarked for next year in this crucial area to be cut by more than a third: from eur 12 million to eur 7 million. 66 million this decrease goes against everything we have discussed here in the past months. we also need to see that one of the most positive and visible points in this area, namely consumer protection, is given the necessary resources to work. it cannot be that with a much larger european union and with far more consumers who want to defend their rights, the money allocated to this area will be even less than in 2004. we also need to learn from what happened a few years ago, we need to see that our consumers are better informed and better prepared to minimise abuses when new countries adopt the euro. these are the proposals on which my colleagues in the socialist group and the committee on the internal market and consumer affairs have agreed.
thank you, mr president, i would like to speak about the cruise liner sector, which was mentioned in the opinion of margie sudre on behalf of the committee on regional development. i will not dwell, mr president, on the importance of this sector for ports, maritime regions and islands in europe, i think the importance of this sector for tourism, employment and the generation of economic activity is clear enough. but it seems that this sector is not sufficiently recognised in the laws we are making. in fact, sometimes, instead of giving him an incentive, he almost tries to leave europe. let me explain - for example in the area of taxation such as vat and excise duties, the general rules we have are difficult to apply to the cruise liner industry, and are creating serious difficulties. i am referring both to the existing rules and to the new commission proposals on changes in the vat region. for example, if you are on a cruise and you get service from the ship's restaurant, you pay vat according to the country you left from - this means that passengers pay different vat rates on a cruise, different passengers according to the country they boarded from, and the shipping company has to administer different tax rates according to where the passengers boarded from. this is just one example but the irony is that there is an incentive to get rid of these problems. if the ship uses a port in a non-european union country, then the entire journey is automatically 'duty free', tax free and without the administrative burden of collecting taxes. so instead of having incentives to encourage the cruise liner industry to stay in european ports, as we should, we are almost encouraging it to leave europe. i have no doubt that this is not the policy of the european union and was not the intention of the legislator, but we must recognise that these anomalies exist and we must remove them. my appeal to commissioner verheugen is therefore to address these anomalies, to pay more attention to the cruise liner industry and to encourage it to continue investing and growing in european union countries. thank you.
mr president, it is good that the european union is taking concrete steps towards a common policy on immigration and smuggling which includes clear provisions on the return of illegal immigrants to their country. so far as we can see in the case of malta, the southern european countries are being left to fend for themselves, with consequences that have now reached the proportions of a national crisis. but to move towards a common policy, we must not only look at what obligations each country has to bear, but we must also look at how the burden can be shared. unfortunately, europe is still far from a situation where the burden of this problem is shared equally by all and some countries are carrying more than they can handle. and let's be realistic, the burden must be borne not only by european countries, but also by the countries of origin from which immigrants originate as well as by transit countries, such as libya. how can we get countries of origin, especially those that are safe countries, 'safe-countries' to cooperate? how can we get transit countries, such as libya, to also meet their obligations, inter alia, by entering into repatriation agreements? these are the questions we need to ask ourselves. in particular, we need to address this issue in a holistic way, especially when it comes to which countries should be considered as 'safe' or 'super-safe'. i say 'yes' to a common european policy, but a policy of solidarity where the burden is shared by all, and a coherent and persistent policy with third countries, so that they too take up their responsibilities. i would like to conclude with a comment on the role of parliament. we must be careful, because if this parliament is putting too much pressure on the member states, then we should not be too concerned if the council does not pay attention.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, events in belarus do not concern just a limited number of member states, such as poland or the baltic states, because of obvious historical, political, geographic and social reasons. these events should be of concern to each and every member state here. this is one of the deficiencies in our approach: not all of us consider belarus as our backyard issue, as indeed it is. i will not be repeating what has been said. instead, allow me to register the fact that significant progress has been registered since the last time we met and tackled this subject in this chamber. as you said, commissioner, the commission is opening a representative office in minsk and a broadcasting project is kicking off, even though some of us are not that happy with the way it is being tackled – and they may be right. nevertheless, this is a first step on which we have long been insisting and the commission should be commended for having kept its word. but we must not stop here. the statements made by the country's president during the united nations summit are not a good omen. some of our colleagues are still in prison – i mention mikola statkevich as a symbol for them all. i hope that this interest in belarus will not wane, as political appointments in certain member states come and go. the situation in belarus is too delicate to be used as a political football. it should be a long-term commitment – and, let us hope, not that long-term; let us hope that the situation is solved in the medium term. but it should be a commitment of the european union. (applause)
mr president, the status quo of illegal immigration in europe is untenable both for member states, which are burdened with responsibilities they cannot shoulder on their own, and for the wellbeing and dignity of immigrants themselves. member states such as malta are being affected to a disproportionate degree, creating in the process an alarming situation, especially when the size and population density of the island is taken into consideration. i wish to record here my appreciation for the initiative taken by commissioner frattini. whilst i recognise that individual member states have to take part ownership of this problem, i feel that the union has not treated this tragic reality with the urgency, concreteness and effectiveness it deserves. it is clear that we are still far from implementing the burden-sharing policy. the union has to take immediate and urgent action and provide the necessary funds, know-how, intelligence and diplomatic support needed to tackle this global concern effectively and humanely. this is an international problem and therefore necessitates an international solution. in the long term, a joint endeavour by europe and the united nations could go a long way towards resolving this issue in a more holistic manner, especially where non-eu countries are concerned. in this respect, i very much welcome the ‘marshall plan’ as recommended by mr barón crespo. this is the kind of eu solidarity that eu citizens, member states and immigrants would really relate to and appreciate.
mr president, i should also like to express my views today about the huge influx of illegal immigrants in europe, a situation that is not only affecting my country malta, but also spain, italy, and other european countries; a situation that has stretched malta’s resources to their limits; a situation that i fear has not been given its due importance by the european union. the maltese authorities have been dealing with this problem for years, but the last couple of years have seen an increase that has made it very difficult to control. logistically it has become very hard – nearly impossible – to accommodate these illegal immigrants and at the same time ensure their privacy and dignity as human beings. this year alone about 44 boats have entered our territorial waters – a small number you may say, but when compared to germany, for example, that would mean the equivalent of 830 boats – carrying 1600 illegal immigrants. compared to germany again that would be the equivalent of almost 300 000 people, a situation which i am sure no european government would like to have to face. unfortunately the situation is a reality on our island and i urge the commission to act as soon as possible to find a lasting solution. let us work together to adopt a common policy on migration that would befit the principles of a united europe. the problem we are facing is critical, but nevertheless i am sure that the maltese authorities will continue to do their utmost to aid and protect these unfortunate people who in the vast majority of cases flee their countries for political, social and economic reasons. we will continue to do our best but we need assistance, because this is not just a maltese, italian or spanish problem: it is a problem that concerns the whole of the european union.
mr president, over the past few months, bulgaria has made positive steps towards its membership of the european union. the country is slowly getting back on its feet economically and will in all likelihood achieve its objectives by the accession date. increased trade with member countries is evidence of this positive factor. however, one should look at the bulgarian judicial system, a system that still has a lot to change and why among many other things the most crucial is the fact that it is still not in line with the human rights charter. the organised age is also an important and worrying problem that the bulgarian authorities have to deal with. the resignation of for example five senior officials within the organised crime bureau, raises many questions and the bulgarian government should take immediate action before further damage is done. the proposals for reform of the national organised crime service should be reviewed in order to make the system work with the least possible problems. the discovery of the criminal ring, which was exporting, for example, babies to europe, is also worrying. and that's because this nasty business has been popping up at a rapid rate in recent years. and so, the authorities must continue to break this vicious circle and ensure that there are very strict measures in place to catch all those involved in this clandestine business. yes, mr president, fundamental rights are indispensable for the bulgarian people to live as they deserve after long years of communist rule. if bulgaria does not adhere to these basic principles, i and others in this room will find it difficult to accept bulgaria to be a member of this union. there is no need for a transitional period here, we are not talking about economics or politics, we are talking about fundamental human rights. and so i hope that the bulgarian authorities will overcome these obstacles in order to join the european union by the year 2007.
mr president, i wish to thank mr pittella and mr dombrovskis for their very good work. mr dombrovskis, as rapporteur for other institutions, has incorporated most of our group’s priorities into his final resolution. one such priority was the retention of parliament’s budget at the 20% level of heading 5. if used effectively, this benchmark provides us with the stability and rigour necessary for any budget. moreover, we have increased the reserve allocated to property investment and we reserve the right to utilise the eur 20 million reduction in the contingency reserve as a capital injection for any eventual purchase of new parliamentary buildings. the policy on acquisition of property was very successful and made much financial sense. in contrast, the policy on communication and information was disappointing, since we have failed to convince european citizens that the european parliament is representing their aspirations and their interests. in this year’s budget we have made available enough funds to start implementing, hopefully, an effective and citizen-friendly information strategy. naturally, more needs to be done to improve the streamlining of an activity-based budget and to improve the efficiency of our operations. if we had to evaluate critically and objectively the impact of the ‘raising the game’ exercise, one has to acknowledge that a few of these objectives have actually been achieved. realistically, however, there is no reason why, in the coming year, the administration should not achieve most of its stated targets. there is very little room for complacency. bottlenecks should be eliminated and we have to sharpen our focus on the core operations, ensuring a more efficient use of our resources and cutting down on waste and duplication. proper manpower planning, including redeployment, recruitment harmonisation and training services improvement should also be considered priorities in 2006. we need to initiate a prioritised plan catering for our future needs, bearing in mind that, with effect from 2009, we would have to budget over eur 100 million per annum resulting from the members’ statute. these changes and reforms should improve the quality and performance of our institutions. however, in the final analysis, one has to review this in terms of the impact on the new citizens, offering them a product with added value that meets their expectations and, in so doing, strengthens the image and credibility of the european parliament and other institutions.
madam president, madam commissioner, if i had to tell my constituents that i was addressing the european parliament at 11.30 p.m., i doubt that they would believe me, let alone tell me that they tuned in to the new europarl website to listen. but at least the late hour of this debate has not kept us from making a sober assessment of the barcelona process, and the rapporteur is certainly to be commended for her candid report. ten years on, the barcelona process has not lived up to expectations and it would be fair to conclude that we do not have much to celebrate. however, this is not to say that we should be pessimistic; rather, we should look at the experience of the past ten years and demonstrate that we can learn from it. here are some lessons that i would like to draw. firstly, we should avoid spreading ourselves too thinly. if necessary, we should admit that the barcelona process may have been far too ambitious and should focus instead on fewer priorities where we can truly make a difference. secondly, we must acknowledge that the problems of our mediterranean partners are our problems too. take immigration, for instance: the limitations of the barcelona process on immigration have turned into a massive problem at the door of european union member states. so, in helping our mediterranean partners, we are in reality also helping ourselves. it could be a win-win situation. thirdly, we must treat our mediterranean partners like true partners. all too often, europe has fallen into the trap of sounding patronising and appearing to dictate to them when this is not the right partnership approach at all. finally, the process needs visibility, both for eu citizens as well as for citizens of the member partners. unless people see that the process can affect them and benefit them directly, they can hardly be asked to support it.
i am sorry for my colleague, let him hear more about the socialist dimension but, because what we want to see, is people coming to the centre. in malta my fellow workers are going through a disastrous upheaval. they are facing daily unemployment, now suddenly, we have news that a factory that employs 850 people producing jeans is going to go and produce outside the european union. this means that for a small country like ours, with a single stroke of the knife, we have zero. 5% of our workforce, of our workforce, that will be gone in one day. almost two years ago these people received letters telling them that joining the european union, god willing, would solve all the problems associated with the challenge of globalisation, promising them what they called a 'new spring'. we may not have been so popular because we told them the truth, that we have to work every day to be competitive. but now we must see that the european union really puts people before profits, that people before directives. some would say we cannot do it by our own rules, so i mean, mr commissioner, we must change the rules.
at a time when europe is not doing well in public opinion, it is not easy to explain to people that the european union, which for many is supposed to be a model of how things are done well, is not in fact perfect, but that it has a long way to go to ensure that the money it employs is actually used properly. the report before us is a case of déja vu; the court also said that it could not be certain that every euro spent was actually spent in a completely regular way, although the report also notes some progress in a problematic area such as agriculture, which after all takes up a huge share of the budget. but it would be a mistake to give up on the search for a more effective budgetary control system. on the one hand, it is regrettable to hear that there are still many shortcomings in the control system, but on the other hand there is the frustration that we seem to have always been seeking perfection, the perfection represented by the das system, to a perfection that year after year we are always realizing that yes we might be able to approach it, but that we will certainly not reach it. now either we play the game of the black-outers or we admit that we are not perfect and everyone takes responsibility. this applies to us in the european parliament, to the european commission, but also to the member states themselves.
president-in-office of the council. i would certainly not want the impression to be left in this chamber that somehow by dint of geography britain is isolated from the mainstream of the european union. indeed i hope many of our efforts in the course of the presidency have challenged that impression. as i suggested in my initial answer, there is provision within the treaties for action to be taken when necessary by the commission. nonetheless it remains a matter for individual member states to make decisions in relation to taxation, as i sought to declare. if the honourable member is suggesting that further action needs to be taken either at member state level or at european level, i am not convinced that would necessarily relate to issues of taxation as distinct from potential other public policy remedies for the problems that he claims to have identified.
thank you mr president. i think it would be wrong to continue to take this issue strictly from the taxation side, we must look away from the question of free movement of persons and services, two of the essential freedoms of the european union. let me take an example of a country - malta. for a ticket between malta and brussels you get approximately 104 euros a good price, taxation and 'surcharges' on top of it comes 126 euro, i.e. 121% of the price, between malta and london 200% of the price are taxes and other 'charges'. we must take it seriously, it cannot be that travel, especially from isolated and remote places, is somehow considered a luxury. we can't take the car to mainland europe, what are we going to do then? i 'm not ! that is to say, we must really look at it from the point of view of freedom of movement.
mr president, thank you mr president. i get the impression that we are preaching to the converted here for the simple reason that the council is not here and the commissioner agrees with the firm position we are taking, despite saying that he does not think that extending the experiment would be a good enough solution. i think we should, at this point, at the beginning of december, consider that solution too. there is no doubt that the council should take note of our strong position in favour of renewing this labour intensive facility which has proved to be a successful experiment and has created new jobs. the experiment should also be extended to new member states. the irony of all this is that while we are talking about having a lower rate here, there are some governments in some countries, including my own, malta, which have been in the european union for a long time not because they have not experimented with low tax rates but because they have also raised vat from 15 to 18%. i also believe that the range of services needs to be extended to other services such as environmental and restaurant services. this is an experiment that has succeeded in being credible to the people who elected us, to the people we represent and even to the commission and the council to be credible we want one of these few experiments that has really been a great success.
mr president, our budget rapporteurs have presented us with a practical budget which addresses the union’s political and social realities. to a large extent, our group’s recommended priorities for 2006 have been incorporated. they include: creating an effective information strategy; providing an efficient service for members and visitors; continuing to purchase property and buildings under the right conditions; streamlining manpower policy and improving activity-based budgeting, which focuses more on core operations; critically examining all forms of expenditure; making better use of our resources, thus reducing waste, and other inherent malpractices – so adding real value to our performance. the successful conclusion of a very well structured budget becomes even more relevant considering the potential outcome of the 2007 to 2013 financial perspectives. in the budget conciliation process parliament’s negotiating team went a long way to find a workable, balanced formula. likewise, we should do our utmost to reach an agreement on the financial perspectives, but, as mrs jensen said, not at any cost. we should not agree on a set of financial perspectives that would make it very difficult, if not impossible, realistically to deliver on our promises and to meet our commitments and objectives. we cannot, and should not, pay lip service to high-flown ideas such as growth, employment, research, social solidarity and enlargement and, at the same time, not provide the funds to achieve them. if we fail our citizens in this respect, apathy and their perception of the barrier between the eu institutions and ordinary citizens will grow much bigger. in other words, if we really mean what we say, we should put our money where our mouth is.
thank you mr president. it is an undeniable fact that well-known organisations such as ngos and mpos play a vital role in the life of our civil society, both in large countries like russia, and in small countries like mine. in russia the number of most of the organisations is about seventy thousand, less than three weeks ago the parliament known as the state duma passed some amendments, first reading, that had an impact on these organisations. one must appreciate the thinking both inside and outside russia about these amendments that may have an impact on human rights. but on the other hand it must be said that in some countries there have been a small number of cases where these organisations have been abused for illicit and illegal purposes. on the other hand the proposed amendments in russia have a negative impact on those organisations also known to be 'bona fide'. on a positive note, the council of europe was asked for certain guidelines and also the president of this country, putin, made certain proposals to the new chairman. to close the solution is not to put these organisations under one lens, but to have the necessary legal tool within the parameters of the european convention to identify the non-genuine ones. thank you.
