i would like to add my support to the words of mr deva and mr tajani. i have sent you a letter to that effect, asking you to make a virtue of the need and to try to work more efficiently in the face of the disaster. we ended the plenary session here in strasbourg in 2004 and we are now starting a plenary session without any interim meetings. i think that this is not efficient, that it is a missed opportunity and that we should look at the efficiency of this house and of the plenary sessions. we could have easily compressed a piece. i have not yet received your reply, but i assume that, given the agenda, the answer is no, perhaps because you fear that a precedent will be set. i think, however, that you should take every opportunity to meet efficiently where necessary, and not meet to meet because it happens to be in the treaty.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, i should also like to begin by thanking mr florenz for his chairmanship of the delegation, mr dimas and the dutch presidency for the pleasant cooperation. fellas, i'm starting at the north pole. the warming is happening faster than expected . glaciers are melting, permafrost is thawing, the tree line is shifting... the people of the arctic regions are now being forced to adapt their lifestyles to warming. the societies in the arctic regions are experiencing on a small scale what the world as a whole will see. we are faced with the dual task of adapting to climate change while at the same time limiting climate change. in the face of this enormous challenge, the outcome of the climate conference in buenos aires is particularly disappointing. it is of course good that the kyoto process was just being kept on track by a seminar. it is good that the european union has won its way and that this seminar is also a chance to look to the future, but it is all very thin. we must also acknowledge that the eu has become increasingly isolated. of course, a number of american states are willing to work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and there is indeed interest in our system of tradable emission allowances. and indeed, scientists who deny man's influence on climate are hard to find today. we have to count our blessings, but the essence of buenos aires is that the urgency felt in europe is not shared in other parts of the world. why is that? is it a lack of responsibility on the part of the american government? is it a lack of understanding on the part of the rest of the world or is it a lack of diplomatic skills on our part? do we lack the power of persuasion? we must regret that the eu did not have the necessary appearance. binding targets beyond 2012 are worth pursuing, but unfortunately they have become a european workhorse. the eu will have to prepare very well for the seminar in the spring. we need practical proposals, and that requires leadership and persuasion, but above all courage. it is important to come forward with good, productive and substantiated proposals quickly. the eu will also have to be open to the approach in other countries. i see at least three ways out that we all need to explore. first, to do more to adapt and help adapt, especially for developing countries. the contributions of african and central american delegations in buenos aires all began with mentions of unpleasant climate change. adaptation is not easy, but it certainly should not be limited to aiding in major disasters. the adaptation of lifestyles is a major issue and requires credible programmes. secondly, the transfer of technology. we must abandon our ideological reservations about the clean development mechanism and instead invest fully in the transfer of technology. thirdly, we will have to focus much less on a national approach, the targets per country. we must put much more emphasis on sectoral objectives. in the discussions we had as a parliamentary delegation, the sectoral approach emerged as a viable way forward. we will have to negotiate with the steel, cement and paper industries. competition in these sectors is global and global objectives based on best practice are therefore obvious. the wto can play a role in this.
president. - mr president, this parliament has had many debates in recent years on the need for climate policy. the kyoto protocol will actually come into force next month, and it is therefore good to look back at what we have decided in recent years. i notice that there is less interest in climate policy. it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a majority for necessary measures. the reason for this, i believe, is that we are not seeing much of climate change and that the negative effects will be felt most strongly in remote countries. it is also thought that reducing greenhouse gas emissions will cost economic growth. i would like to draw the attention of members to a study by iiasa, the international institute for applied systems analysis in laxenburg, austria. the scientists involved have shown that climate policy can be much cheaper if air quality policy is linked to climate policy. the net cost is reduced enormously, but we have to look at the regulation of other gases besides co2. so an effective policy does not have to be expensive. i would also like to take this opportunity, mr president, to point out to the commission the problems with the emissions trading system. the directive has been interpreted very differently in the member states, which threatens to create major problems. in some countries, for example, the chemical industry has been excluded from the scope of the directive. this was a reason for other member states to exclude the chemical industry from the application there too, in order to avoid distortions of competition. in addition, fines imposed on companies for exceeding their emission quotas are deductible in certain member states. again, there is no level playing field in the internal market. i would like to hear from commissioner dimas whether he is aware of this and whether an amendment to the directive can be proposed which would block these possibilities. in addition, in a number of member states there is state aid to industry. in my own member state, the netherlands, a national government has spent 600 million euros to buy emission allowances abroad, which has reduced the reduction for industry. i would also like to hear the commissioner's views on this. mr president, when the directive was being discussed, two amendments of mine were adopted in this house which should have prevented these problems. i must now say that the problems have arisen. our climate policy must aim at improving the quality of our environment, we have agreed to this and we must stick to it. we do not own the earth, but only temporarily use it.
president. - the climate conference in buenos aires did not produce the result we wanted. we had expected a major breakthrough with ratification and we wanted to set out, if possible, exactly what was to happen after 2012. when i look at the media coverage of the past few weeks, i sometimes feel that we are talking ourselves into the ground if we concentrate on these two issues. we all know, of course, that the united states has not ratified it. we also note that the rapid growth in india and china must also have an impact on the involvement of these countries in climate policy. yet, we do not often count our blessings. i agree with the commissioner who has just said that it is good that there are results. there are now 128 member states that have signed the climate convention. in the united states and canada too - mrs doyle has just spoken about this - there are more and more states which support our line and want to join europe. but if we are to have a long-term climate policy, we can only achieve real results if we not only broaden but also deepen the debate. that means that we must involve the developing countries more than we have done so far. we should actually - and the commissioner has also spoken about this - offer them with our help this clean technology, so that they can start right away with clean technologies and make a big leap forward. mr president, the same is true of china and india, and we must encourage them too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am confident that under the leadership of this commissioner - but i must also congratulate pieter van geel on the way he has done it, he has already received many compliments - it will no longer be claimed that it is only europe that is doing something about climate policy, because then we will be further isolated. no, we need to make sure that everyone is involved by widening the space and adding a new floor. i am confident that the situation report we are about to receive, the note on future developments, will be able to take us out of isolation.
mr president, the european parliament is debating today - at least according to the rapporteurs - a treaty which is a constitution in nature and substance. the report takes as its starting point the apparent contradiction between the council and the member states on the one hand and parliament and the citizen on the other. the rapporteur is ignoring the fact that the european institutions owe their existence to the voluntary transfer of powers by the member states. moreover, citizens continue to identify primarily with their own state. the european identity imposed from above, with its own symbolism, will not change that. the treaty gives the european union the characteristics of a state. the foreign minister is a deplorable example of this. a common figure must cover the lack of a common policy. moreover, the institutional anchoring of this person is unfortunate. the rapporteur should acknowledge that the dual responsibility towards the council and the commission creates confusion and gives rise to potential conflicts of loyalties. i therefore cannot describe this treaty as anything other than a blind and ill-conceived leap forward. (applause from the left)
the constitutional treaty is subject to criticism, mr president, and although the text is certainly an improvement on the present situation, the question remains whether the new text is good enough. i think that in some respects this is a missed opportunity. let us look at the election of the president of the european commission, for example. i think that this should be done by the citizens of europe, or at least by the european parliament. yes, it's in the new constitution, but there's only going to be one candidate, not several candidates, so there's no choice. the same applies to codecision: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european model, a broad majority of peoples and a political majority, is applied across the board. it is in the constitution, but in practice it will not be enough. so it can all be a lot more efficient and democratic. the debate on ratification, and especially in countries where a referendum will take place, will not, however, be about the subtleties and differences between the old and the new situation. that's a debate for gourmets like us. the treaty is about more than these innovations, it is about a whole text. we are voting on a text which reflects what we have built europe in half a century. half a century of peace, security, free movement of people, goods, services and capital. when i think of the opportunities and challenges that dutch people, all europeans, can now seize in this great union, i have no doubt. i'm voting for that. in my country, there will be a referendum in a few months. i am now opposed to the argument that small member states such as the netherlands will soon disappear into almost nothingness within the union as a result of the new constitutional treaty, should turkey join. this is vote-making, because turkey is a separate decision and i believe that citizens should decide this themselves in a referendum at the appropriate time. but it's also a small business. in the current institutional chaos in europe, large member states can exert a disproportionate influence and smaller member states benefit from law and order. i choose good and democratic governance over chaos. mr president, the dutch liberals will be campaigning actively for the new eu constitutional treaty in the forthcoming referendum.
the dutch delegation to the european parliament is debating the constitution, not whether we are for or against europe. we say yes, critically, because we are concerned with the advantages of the new constitution compared with the nice treaty. the europe of nice is unclear about the scope of europe. the new treaty, however, guarantees the influence of the regional, the decentralized and puts the national parliament as a watchdog, without any superstate, but effective and transnational cooperation against crime and food security. the new constitution also replaces more than 30 types of acts with terms that are easily recognisable to citizens, such as law and framework law. the constitution thus provides more clarity about the kind of europe we want and the decisionmaking we use to achieve it. the constitution also makes us more effective by extending the range of areas where decisions are taken by qualified majority, so that no single country can block the whole thing. there will be more democratic accountability, as much decision-making is taken out of the back rooms and council decision-making meetings become public. finally, the constitution gives us more rights for citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the social dialogue, the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights and, of course, the citizens' initiative. those who do not support this important step in the process of european integration will be responsible for maintaining the current nice treaty, which is more bureaucratic, slower, less clear and in many respects undemocratic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the social europe is still too weakly anchored, so a critical yes. in short, mr president, the dutch pse delegation is saying a critical 'yes' to the constitution. we will be happy to express this attitude, supported by johan cruyff, catalan dutchman or dutch catalan in spanish action, in the run-up to the referendum in the spring. we hope that this will help to get support in the netherlands for this new project, the new constitution.
mr president, this constitutional treaty is worth defending. as a christian democrat, i am glad that the principle of subsidiarity has been elaborated, deepened and consolidated at this time. the european union has now also recognised and consolidated the role of local and regional authorities - the regional dimension. a better balance between what is happening centrally and decentrally, in brussels, in the national states and in regions and municipalities, is necessary. as a regional manager, i have also noticed for many years that information from the european union has been left at the council level for too long, that regions and cities have been involved in the debate and decision-making too late. i have also been able to participate in the hearings of the convention on behalf of the european organizations, particularly on subsidiarity. the treaty strengthens the position of regions and cities, which are close to citizens and where important tasks are carried out in many areas. this is closing the democratic gap that mr prodi also mentioned in his report on good governance. it is an important step that the european parliament now supports this and remains critical of the interpretation of this convention at the decentralized level in the coming years. i also propose that we as parliament ask both the council and the committee of the regions from time to time questions such as: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. do national parliaments also take into account the views of regions and cities in the subsidiarity test? i know that the committee of the regions is also carrying out a similar test. in short, this treaty is worth defending. that is why we will be working for it in the national states, especially when referenda are on the agenda.
president, commissioner, thank you for the green paper. action was and is sorely needed, so i am very happy about it. i have just received the green paper, so i have not yet been able to read it in its entirety, but only the first pages. i immediately noticed page 5, where three proposals are made as to the form of future european legislation for the purpose of the proposed harmonization. it is at least pretended that there are three options left, namely the horizontal approach, the sectoral approach and the so-called common fast track procedure. but is it not true that, thanks to the council's indecision for many years, we have already quietly opted for the sectoral approach? i think the peillon report on the admission of scientists and researchers from third countries is a good example of this. the council is also behind this and perhaps explains your optimism a little.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr juncker, first of all, thank you for your introduction. i wish the luxembourg presidency success and i wish it more wisdom than its dutch predecessor. however, you have already made a small slip with your comment on the constitution. please let the citizen make his own unbiased choice. my first question to you is brief. it has been six years since the euro was introduced. at that time, in 1999, european unemployment was 9%, and it is still 9%. at the same time, economic growth has slowed. my question to you is: do you not think it is high time for a thorough evaluation of the euro, in which you could take the lead? what i miss from your agenda is the continuation of the debate on the control of animal diseases which was started under the dutch presidency. have you forgotten? your list of priorities states that there are many misunderstandings about the services directive. what kind of misunderstandings are you referring to, and who do you think are the people who are experiencing them? the commission, the parliament or the thousands of workers who have already protested against this directive? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. does the luxembourg presidency have any concrete proposals for amendments to the commission's proposal on the services directive? if you do not have one, i would like to invite you to come with me on a tour of the netherlands. first, you can learn about the important public services that are being threatened by the directive, such as education and health care. i can also show you the commercial service providers who would like to be active in luxembourg or elsewhere. for example, the coffee shop "the satisfied smoker" and the club "picobello escortservice". i believe that these services are an expression of dutch culture and that the services directive will enable us to impose them on everyone. you understand that these last sentences were intended as a provocation, but i would ask you to accept my invitation. perhaps then we can have that much-needed debate on the services directive which still seems so absent in too many crucial places in europe.
president. - i should like to begin by expressing my condolences to mr juncker on the death of the grand duchess josephine-charlotte. i wish you and the people of luxembourg strength and god's closeness to bear this loss. president, the luxembourg presidency faces the difficult task of reforming the stability pact and putting into practice the conclusions of the wim kok report. the european commission's proposal to take account of the economic situation in the stability pact, in my view, provides a basis for adequate reform. the implementation of the pact benefits from clear decision-making. sanctions in a clear manner remain required. in the autumn of 2004, mr kok presented his report on the lisbon strategy. his conclusion is as clear as it is predictable. the member states really need to start structural reforms now. my question to mr juncker is therefore: what further progress can we expect from your presidency? luxembourg has always been a strong advocate of the necessary reforms, so my expectations are high. finally, the statute for members. can the presidency expect the parliament to finally take a decision on this in the next six months?
the content of my speech will be somewhat different from that of my predecessor. let me begin by thanking the luxembourg presidency not only for the excellent agenda it has presented, but also for the style, content and commitment of this agenda. the luxembourg presidency has an incredible amount of work to do in the coming months and much is expected of it. there are great challenges to be met, challenges that europe must meet. i am talking about one of the challenges, mr president, namely more and better jobs, but also sustainability and social cohesion. i would therefore say to mr goebbels and also to mr cohn-bendit: the socialists and the greens have no monopoly on this. social cohesion is one of the christian-democratic principles paramount, and i will always be committed to it, and i know that our group will be committed to it, that social cohesion will be preserved. i am therefore glad that not only the president of the council, but also the president of the european commission and the president of my group have spoken about this social cohesion. i would like to speak briefly about lisbon, mr president, and in particular the following points. firstly, the aim of what we did in lisbon was good, the result we want to achieve is excellent, but we have simply forgotten that when all those government leaders went home, no one was responsible, accountable for this process. the most important thing we have to do now is to hold people accountable, alongside all the new measures that have to be taken. national plans which can therefore be tested at european level. and now, mr president, a final heartfelt cry. i see that we have made a number of agreements on the free market, which have not been respected by the member states, but also by the european commission, particularly as regards diplomas, mobility, etc.
in writing. while the european parliament has not yet taken a decision on the draft constitution, a party is being organised around us to celebrate its adoption, costing 375,000 euros. this is a further proof that two prejudices about europe, namely that it is undemocratic and wasteful, are entirely justified. my party is against this constitution for a number of reasons. we condemn the neo-liberal and socio-economic element which under the guise of 'free trade' undermines public services and deprives national and local authorities of the right to determine how they want to organise their public services. we strongly oppose the militarization of europe which is reflected in the constitution, for example in the passage which forces member states to increase their defence budgets. and we reject this constitution because it confirms the undemocratic structure of the union, rather than significantly improving it. perhaps some of my colleagues are prepared to sell their souls to neoliberalism in exchange for a handful of additional parliamentary powers, but i will not do that. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
in writing. today the supporters of the constitution celebrate their feast. the european parliament cannot change the text of that document. the national parliaments or the voters who take part in national referendums cannot do so either. everyone can only agree or reject, and accompany that choice with feasting or mourning. this makes it impossible to abolish the obligation to increase armaments and solidarity with nato. nor can the free and fair competition which is so glorified in that text be subordinated to the environment, public services or the protection of labour. nor can it be decided that the collection of one million signatures of citizens required by article 46 should be rewarded by a referendum. the new social rights are lacking. the traditional authoritarian model of eu governance, with a strong role for the council and the presidency, without good opportunities to correct it by means of parliamentary democracy, is also not in question. i don't want this constitution. the festivities today are not in my name. in the netherlands, i will be participating in the campaign of my party, the socialist party, in the coming months to get a majority of voters to reject this flawed text.
mr president, the feeling of paradise i had on sunday morning, having breakfast on the coast of india, turned into horror later on when i, myself, went to the hinterland to see the images of violence and destruction caused by sunday's killer. many days later, 150,000 people are dead and 2 million are displaced. the eu's €475 million is a serious contribution to asia and to african countries. but, as my colleague mr deva and mrs mathieu have said, we cannot accept that part of that sum should come from reprogramming funds for asia and reprogramming the edf funds. this is also true of the commitments of the eu member states, amounting to eur 1.5 billion. the european commission and the council must therefore provide additional new money. that is a strong demand of parliament and we shall speak about it later. coordination through the un, with respect for the role of local organisations and local priorities, is essential. the ep should set up a kind of 'tsunami watch' with its colleagues in the national parliaments of the member states to monitor the implementation of the commitments and to ensure that rapid transitional arrangements are put in place. what steps is the eu taking to prevent, through flexible reconstruction, a gap between emergency aid on the one hand and structural aid on the other, as we saw with hurricane mitch? commissioner michel has committed a scoreboard of 475 million in commitments/spending. we should do it quarterly and then we should know the status of the early warning system in asia. we want that in africa, because that has been prevented so far. the most important thing, i think, is that the poorest people there, the poor fishing communities, get the money that was promised and that they have a say in how it is spent, otherwise the money will be stuck in the middle again, and that would be a grave sin. so please give clear instructions to your eu delegations on the ground and make this quality requirement part of your scoreboard. i would also like to quote the words of johan cruyff in relation to europe: "every disadvantage has its advantages". i hope that together we can use this momentum to promote effective european solidarity. - what ?
president. - the great scale of the disaster and the devastation caused by the tsunami, and its emotional and material impact, will be felt by the victims for years to come. i congratulate the commission and the council on their rapid and adequate response immediately after the disaster and on the commitment they have shown. now, a few weeks later, we have to prepare for one of the largest reconstruction programs in history. my main concern is that we avoid the mistakes of the past. in any case, aid to asia must not be at the expense of aid to other areas of poverty such as africa. the world is rightly focused on asia, but tomorrow, some 20,000 people will die again from poverty-related diseases, such as hiv, aids, malaria and tuberculosis. tomorrow many more people will die or be displaced, for example in darfur, sudan and elsewhere. these people must not be the victims of the good and generous actions for asia. another point, mr president, is how we as europe can ensure that aid also reaches the victims, and thus not, for example, the criminal or criminal organizations or the pockets of the corrupt officials. good coordination is an absolute prerequisite, and the un has an important role to play in this. i am glad that agreements have been reached in jakarta on this, and they must be respected. mr president, we must do everything possible to prevent criminal organizations from taking advantage of the chaos and attacking us through robbery, child trafficking or whatever. international cooperation is of great importance in this respect. it is also necessary - as has been said before - to establish an early warning system for marine earthquakes. in short, i hope that the disaster will be a unique example not only of financial solidarity but also of the implementation of aid programmes. we must give not only with the heart, as someone said, but also with the mind.
i would like to add my voice to the commission's appreciation of the rapid and effective response to the request for assistance. i would like to discuss three points myself. i would like to begin by discussing a point from my position as a member of the human rights committee. one of the dark sides of tourism in the region, including large-scale tourism from europe, is the trafficking of women and children and the violation of children's rights. it is precisely in this situation that the darkness of this shadow side is once again revealed. it would be a great honour for the european union to put money and manpower at the disposal of the people to deal with this very problem and to show in this very dark situation that we are also on the side of the people in solving this great evil. my second point concerns the enormous damage that has been done to the fisheries there. we have a great deal of knowledge in europe in the field of fisheries. it would therefore be a good thing for the european union, in addition to concluding fisheries agreements all over the world, to help those coastal regions right now and to ensure that the necessary attention is paid to the equipment of fishing vessels and to safe fishing, that we invest well in it and that we focus on it. the third point concerns food aid. very often we see large-scale food aid that the poor in the surrounding areas are the ones who are hit because of the huge price increases due to the huge additional demand that is created in these areas. in this respect, the european union could play a leading role in ensuring that these markets are not disrupted and that the global food purchasing community looks at how to resolve this. this is precisely what can improve the quality of aid, including in areas close to the affected areas.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the re-election of george w. bush paradoxically offers the opportunity to make a new start in transatlantic relations. the european union is not the only one to have a role to play in the world, and it is not the only one. the fight against terrorism and, in particular, the problems in the middle east. the interests of the united states and europe are still very much aligned, even though the gap sometimes seems wider than ever. we have had a difficult few years, particularly with regard to iraq. bush has announced that he wants to strengthen relations with his european partners and we therefore warmly welcome his visit to europe next month. significant improvement in relations requires commitment from both sides. the americans will have to be more responsive than ever to the views of their partners in europe, but europe itself will also have to be prepared to put its own past differences behind it. we are therefore hopeful that the americans will reassess their relationship with their european partners. we are also cautious and even a little sceptical, because there are as yet no concrete signs of any real change of course on the american side. i am therefore convinced that in the near future there will be a wider debate on transatlantic relations, including in this parliament when an own-initiative report is to be discussed later. we believe that europe must take a clear common position, from which to conduct the dialogue with the united states on the common approach to world problems. the debate on transatlantic relations is therefore also closely linked to the european debate on an effective common foreign policy. we cannot simply sweep under the carpet the sometimes fundamental differences of opinion on how to deal with global problems. that is an important point for us in the debate in the coming years, which will also include talks on kyoto, the international court of justice, disarmament problems and non-proliferation. these are all areas where differences are often still large. one of the points we want to discuss is the legitimacy of international action, which is such a crucial difference of opinion in the debate of recent years. the starting point of european foreign policy is multilateralism. we believe and continue to believe that the decision to intervene in any matter must be taken by the un and not by individual countries or coalitions of countries. that is the position europe must defend, and we must make the reform of the united nations and its transformation into a truly effective and representative platform an absolute priority. preferably with the americans, but we should not be afraid to come up with our own proposals.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. these precious qualities are more than necessary for transatlantic relations for the european institutions at the start of bush's second term. the only country which can still provide some order in our confused and unpredictable world is the united states, and therefore certainly not the united nations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is also washington which guarantees the survival of nato. it is precisely because of nato that europe today does not have to fear a conventional military threat. the european union is also far from being able to compete with the united states in the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i sincerely hope that all the european institutions, including this house, will become increasingly aware of this. in the meantime, we look forward to a fruitful visit to brussels by president bush. i wish the council and the commission much strength and commitment to this end.
the debt burden is a major problem and is now receiving additional attention as a possible aid in the reconstruction after the tsunami. it is good that the debt burden is high on the agenda. debt relief is one of the millennium development goals. the interest burden has often been a huge burden on the budgets of developing countries for many years and in some cases is a real obstacle to further development. we need to look at ways of doing something about it, but the subject is complex and does not lend itself to impulsive approaches. i can imagine a moratorium on interest and repayment being imposed on tsunami-hit countries, but in general debt relief should not depend on occasional dramatic events. mr president, there is a difference between debt cancellation and debt relief. our group does not support the general cancellation of all debts which some in this house are advocating. we say yes to debt relief, but only where necessary, only for the poorest countries and always on certain conditions. we have tabled the following in a resolution as the ppe-de group, and the commissioner has already referred to it: debt relief is not a panacea for poverty. we must bear in mind that any amount of debt that is waived will be based on the amounts available for development cooperation. debt relief alone does not provide a country with new sources of income, provide schools or hospitals, reduce poverty in the countries, nor does it in itself stimulate further development. the funds available for this will be considerably reduced after the amnesty. when it comes to the development of a country, there is also an important responsibility on the part of the countries themselves. debt relief only makes sense if it is accompanied by good governance, democracy, respect for human rights, investing in one's own people; in short, if the money really does reach the poorest. debt relief cannot therefore be an end in itself, but only makes sense if it is a real stimulus to development. we can be generous, but there must be conditions attached to it, as with all forms of development aid.
mr president, there is nothing wrong with debt relief, especially when it concerns countries in acute need, as is the case at present in south-east asia. but one cannot comb everything together. it has been said by several speakers. there are countries with good governance and there are countries with bad governance and we cannot say for all countries that we have forgiven their debts and that is the end of the matter. in practical terms, we cannot treat zimbabwe in the same way as, say, uganda. for each point, for each country, what is politically best must be considered, and debt relief is one of the elements that can contribute to the development of the country. as for the resolution, it is extremely vague. what are the practical consequences for the european budget, for example? i believe that the european investment bank is the only one that lends. the european budget guarantees these loans. what happens when we write off those loans? how much is that gonna cost? perhaps the commission could comment on this?
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, we in this parliament are pleased to welcome the outcome of the third round of the presidential elections in ukraine today. the unravelling of the crisis in ukraine is a great victory for democracy and freedom in a country that has been on the brink of an autocratic state for the past decade. it is also a boost for the european union and, in particular, for this parliament, which has played a major role in the positive outcome of events in ukraine. democracy has finally been established in ukraine. the people have been able to express their opinion freely on the course of the country and the result reflects the will of the people. what has happened in ukraine in recent months is a fundamental change. a kind of democratic uprising which - and we should thank all those involved for this - did not end in violence, as is often the case elsewhere. a new phase in the development of the country is beginning. the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and the development of the economy are the first tasks for the new president's government. the european union must urgently implement the action plan put forward by the european commission in the framework of the neighbourhood policy - and i think we all agree on this - in order to strengthen as much as possible the ties with ukraine within this framework. the possibilities offered by this action plan must therefore also be fully exploited. however, the events in ukraine are not just a challenge to the country itself. the european union will have to reconsider its approach to ukraine. it is no longer enough to simply intensify the limited dialogue which has always been maintained with the regime of outgoing president kuchma - despite his policies. europe now has the task of giving a new content to its political relations with ukraine, now that a president has been elected who does not hide his european orientation and aspirations. those who demonstrated for democracy in kiev demonstrated for brussels rather than for moscow, and i think we should take this into account in our policy. i agree with the epp colleague that we really have to ask ourselves whether the european commission's policy, as just described by commissioner potočnik, is ambitious enough. in any case, the resolution which this parliament is discussing today goes far beyond what the commission or the council have been prepared to do so far. the question at present is also to provide real support to those in ukraine who really want to carry out reforms. they will have to make some difficult decisions and the support of the european union, clear signals from the european union, can certainly help. we have taken on a great responsibility for the smooth running of the elections. we are now also responsible for the further consolidation of democracy in that country. i would add that what has happened in ukraine is, in my view, a moment in time and a reason for the european union to review its policy towards all the countries in the region. it is also important to formulate answers and to anticipate the questions that will certainly come from ukraine but also from other countries in the region.
first of all, mr president, i am pleased to hear the bible mentioned in a positive way in this chamber. as a committed calvinist, i'd like to put that out there. on monday evening, january 10, the central election commission of ukraine officially declared viktor yushchenko the winner of the presidential election, and a stunning fact for both east and west became a reality. in one large former soviet republic, the opposition managed to defeat the post-communist nomenclatura by democratic and peaceful means. it is only natural that this should encourage the democratic forces in neighbouring belarus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, i hope that the council and the commission will give the best possible support to the reform-minded citizens of belarus. the same european backbone cannot be lacking in the yushchenko camp either. in two useful amendments, mr klich has put this very practically. the european union has a duty to help ukraine to become a member of the world trade organisation and to ensure that it is recognized as a market economy. in addition, european support has been equally provided to combat the widespread evil of corruption and to strengthen the justice system. in the meantime, the new ukrainian president and government are faced with two sensitive tasks. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the first thing to do in foreign affairs is to establish the necessary good relations with moscow in a self-confident manner. and so ukraine gets a second chance at a new beginning 15 years after 1991. under president yanukovych, this would certainly not have been possible. i find the historical parallel that ukrainian expert professor gerhard simon drew in a recent lecture at eichstett university to be striking in this respect. the so-called orange revolution in ukraine is on the same political level as the fall of the berlin wall or the end of the soviet union. (applause from the left)
mr president, tibet has long been internationally recognized as part of the territory of china against the will of its indigenous people. it is an area that is being colonized by chinese and where many newcomers fill the function of civil servant, policeman or military. for many years, resistance to this humiliating situation has been suppressed by violent means. the death penalty and the death penalty with suspension are among the means used by the chinese state to suppress the desires of a large part of the tibetan population. we are rightly indignant in this parliament, despite all the political differences, at the death penalty and certainly at the use of the death penalty as a political instrument, and we hope to prevent the execution of a respected and influential buddhist lama in two weeks' time. china today is like south korea in recent years. in that model, economic growth comes before everything else, above people and the environment. the temptation to quickly swallow criticism of china is great when one is reasoning from a short-sighted european self-interest in the short term. after all, china is the country with the largest population and the fastest growing economy. for a century, this country has been stagnating and sidelined internationally by internal wars, foreign occupations and idealistic but ill-conceived experiments. it now looks as if it will play a very important role in the future. we are not going to accept that such a leading country applies the death penalty, mistreats minorities, neglects the environment, pays workers poorly, maintains unsafe living and working conditions and does not have a democracy. or do we want to promote from europe that our views on a democratic rule of law, diversity of political and religious views, freedom of association and democratic majority decisions are also reflected there? the european union must therefore be able to stand unambiguously on the side of the minorities and movements which are threatened and which must be able to play their part in the future. the commission and the council should not take as their main starting point in relations with china the fact that it is a large country with a rapidly growing economy, but that it is a country which does not release colonized peoples, puts economic growth above all else and also violates human rights. then we can get results.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party. - mr president, last month mrs maryam rajavi, leader of the main opposition movement in iran, visited the european parliament and addressed 150 members. it called attention to the injustice done to the iranian people by the fact that the mujahideen, who are fighting for a democratic state of law comparable to europe, are still on our list of terrorist organisations. the european list gives the regime of fundamentalist religious fanatics the right to execute political prisoners who can be linked to it. the regime has given a lot of negative attention to ms. rajavi's visit. those who want to continue unhindered the killing and torture of opponents have every reason to demonize and isolate the democratic opposition in exile. it is high time that the civil liberties and foreign affairs committees reconsider the list of terrorist organisations and thereby contribute to putting an end to the violation of human rights in iran. i regard the unabridged adoption of the proposed resolution, including paragraph 9, as a call for this. this is very important in order to achieve a democratic rule of law in iran.
president. - the fact that the cambodian government or any government is not taking adequate action against the trafficking and abuse of women and children is totally unacceptable. the rights of women and children must not be treated as secondary issues. it is the moral duty of the european union to use all possible means of pressure to change this situation. the european union has a duty to help the victims of modern slavery and to ensure that the victims are treated fairly. it is also very important to support ngos and individuals who are involved in the fight against violence against women and children. this is a task for both the eu and the member states. i would therefore like to thank those who have worked for this resolution.
president. - the european parliament is debating this afternoon the european commission's plans for 2005. i would like to begin by looking at the relationship between the commission and parliament. in the autumn of 2004, president barroso bowed to parliament's pressure. this creates the image of a powerful parliament against a powerless commission. i would like to ask president barroso if he can identify with this image of a commission without power. the european commission has the thankless task of leading the referendums on the european constitution in 2005. the commission has, however, manoeuvred itself into this precarious position. the commission has always rightly maintained that ratification is first and foremost a matter for the national state. this clear line has been abandoned, unfortunately. by actively campaigning and releasing financial resources, the commission has lost its independent position. with the help of their own tax money, the citizens are forced to accept a constitution they never asked for. the campaign for a european constitution should bring citizens closer to europe. but the question is whether the citizen will feel taken seriously if progress is already being made on this constitution. for example, behind the scenes, the design of the european external action service is already being worked on. however, national parliaments and citizens have not yet spoken, and that is despite commissioner wallström's statement that europe must learn to listen to the citizen, rather than continue with a policy of the past.
i have read with interest the 2005 work programme, which has the wonderful keywords prosperity, solidarity and security. there's a lot to talk about. as coordinator of the ppe-de group on development cooperation, i have looked at it with those eyes. it is rightly pointed out that the european union is not only responsible for the peace, prosperity and well-being of its own people, but also has a responsibility towards the rest of the world, especially the poorest countries. five years ago, the european union and other countries set out in the so-called millennium development goals how we intend to fulfil this responsibility. these include halving global poverty by 2015, ensuring universal access to at least basic education, improving the status of women, stepping up the fight against aids and promoting sustainable development. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the european union is doing a lot, but there is also a lot more to be done, and certainly more to be done in terms of cohesion, cooperation and coordination. these millennium development goals will not be achieved if the international community, if we as the european union, do not significantly improve the quality of aid. resources can and should be used more efficiently. mr sachs of the united nations millennium project challenged the european union at our committee meeting last week on the role of the european union in the world. the work programme also deals with this. the european union is the biggest donor, and the challenge is to be the biggest player in terms of vision, cohesion and leadership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i call on the commission to look at this again.
i am very pleased to hear, mr president, that the commission is going to work for the renewal of europe. i think that innovation really should be the key word in the coming years and i have heard similar voices from the presidency and i welcome that wholeheartedly. we need innovation, especially in the economy. many colleagues have pointed out the disadvantages and possible risks of reforms. i think we should talk a little bit more about the downsides and risks of the status quo. reforms require political courage. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope that this commission, unlike the previous commission, will be prepared to do the same and not put forward another set of watered-down consensus proposals without substance. change almost always hurts. change affects vested interests, and this may also explain in part the resistance that exists in some circles. but the longer we delay reform, the greater the pain. mr barroso, in dutch we say that gentle healers make stinking wounds. i don't know how to translate that, but i think the message is clear. there's a lot of talk about innovation, but in the meantime, we're still putting our money into old businesses. we are still pouring our money into an old agricultural system designed for the priorities of the 1950s, and into social security systems designed for the society of half a century ago. we are still maintaining, with a lot of state aid, industries that are deadly and polluting. we are still trying to solve the economic problems by increasing the budget deficit. i hope that this commission will take the lead - and i also call on the presidency and the member states - to invest in knowledge and skills, in education, education, education and innovation, in the environment and in the services market. i hope the commission will simply keep to its word. in free markets, open markets and in initiative and entrepreneurship, that's where we should put our money and not in old politics.
i thank the president of the commission for the brief, clear and powerful presentation of his work programme. i prefer to call it an action plan for the next five years. i would like to make a point of saying that many of the action points you have mentioned can only be really assessed in march and april, when we know what will come out of the renewed lisbon process. i am not talking about the lisbon process, but there is one thing that worries me a little. we are all talking about a strategy, the strategy that focuses on competition, growth, more jobs, but also sustainability. in a strategy, you can't take out one element. you were right to speak of social sustainability. i did not hear you say anything about environmental sustainability. but this too must be an integral part of the lisbon strategy, otherwise it will not work. i therefore expect that social and environmental sustainability will receive greater attention in the lisbon process. i have had time to go over what you have just said. what i really miss - but perhaps you will come back to that later - is the point of mobility in europe. this means that we must not only deal with the question of financial services but also with diplomas and ensure that a migrant worker or intermediary feels at home in europe. in this connection we must also create more jobs. you have spoken of partnership, and that means partnership not only with the citizens but also with the member states, the regions and the social partners.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the energy, time and commitment that the high representative has put into keeping a fire burning over the past few years. a very small spark of hope, hope that despite all the setbacks, a solution could be found in the middle east, in the conflict between israel and the palestinians. because let's be honest, we've had a lot of debates here in the last few years, a lot of resolutions have been passed full of good intentions, but frankly i think there were a lot of people - and i was one of them - who thought: this is a hopeless case, we'll never find a solution. it seems that this situation of hopelessness has now come to an end or may soon come to an end. arafat has been succeeded by abbas, a president who is not only prepared to make good promises but also to take bold steps. the sharon government is made up of parties which are actually in agreement on one thing, namely withdrawal from the gaza strip. i know, when it comes to the middle east, too much optimism is never in the right place, because one bombing and the momentum could be gone. but i think that the evacuation of the gaza strip offers a unique opportunity, the best opportunity in years, to break out of that atmosphere of cynicism and scepticism and finally take another step forward. but this also means that the role of the european union must change. the european union must move from beautiful, general statements to very concrete, targeted assistance in the evacuation, in order to make it go well. what does that mean in the opinion of the european parliament and also in the opinion of my group? that evacuation can only take place in consultation, consultation between israel and the palestinians in the presence of an international observer mission. what exactly can and will the european union do? in november 2004, the high representative, in consultation with foreign ministers, reiterated the council decision of march 2004. the european union supports the withdrawal from the gaza strip if five conditions are met. it has to be part of the road map, it has to be a step towards a two-state solution. until then, i think, no problem, but watch out! israel must not use the evacuation of the gaza strip to establish new settlements in the west bank or to expand existing settlements. the transfer must be carried out in consultation with the palestinian authority and israel must cooperate in the reconstruction of the gaza strip. that, of course, is where the problems lie. hence my question to the high representative: does he think that these conditions are being met at the moment or does he think there is a chance that they will be met in the near future? if not, what will the european union do to ensure that these conditions are met and if they are not met, what will the european union do? are we taking our hands off it? i hope not, but if we're serious, we should try to stick to our own terms. okay, let's be optimistic, because that's what this case needs, and let's assume that the conditions are met. what exactly is the eu going to do? i would like to say that we must now move from beautiful declarations to concrete proposals. for example, are we going to cooperate in sending an observation mission? this is in all the plans, but will the eu be involved? what exactly are we going to do with the united states? - we're going to mediate? is there a request from israel, is there a request from the palestinians? are we going to finance the reconstruction? not in general, but very concretely - if you go to gaza, you know what is broken and what should be restored - are there plans for that? once again, mr president, madam high representative, madam commissioner, the evacuation of the gaza strip offers a golden opportunity to take a step forward. if we let that chance, if we let that possibility slip out of our hands, if it goes wrong in the gaza strip, then i'm afraid that the picking up of the pieces can take a very long time.
mr president, europe must keep hope alive for both peoples, and the only way to do that is to keep the hope of a lasting peace alive. for this we must try to put the two-state solution and a peaceful and total end to the occupation at the top of the agenda. withdrawal from gaza is a hopeful step, but it cannot be the final horizon. without the involvement of the united states of america, this cannot be achieved. mr abbas has set a huge agenda for himself: stop the violent intifada, reform the security forces, create a viable palestinian state and create a lasting peace with israel. we must fully support his agenda, again, to keep hope alive for both peoples. we can actively help him now to fight corruption, further promote democracy in palestinian institutions and support good governance – things the palestinians desperately want– because for this we do not need the united states. we should offer our complete assistance as soon as possible by asking mahmoud abbas how we, the european union, can help further.
president. - mr rübig's report is on the improvement of digital content. one aspect of this improvement is certainly the increase in accessibility. digital content should be made as accessible as possible to people with disabilities. consider, for example, the visual impairment, for which speech technology or a braille keyboard is used. this accessibility is not very good, because the technical features of websites do not correspond to the special equipment used by these people. for the sake of good website standards, there are the w3c guidelines. what it still has is a complete lack of implementation. the econtentplus programme should contribute to the international harmonisation of accessibility guidelines for people with disabilities. it is even financially attractive for companies to make it work. the construction of the accessible application costs more money, but the cost savings in maintenance and management make the financial result positive. this is a subject which deserves a place in the programme, all the more so since the objective of accessibility, more than the other objectives, requires international coordination. the focus on accessibility for people with disabilities is important to me in order to determine whether there is sufficient added value beyond national policy to be able to agree to the budget increase. mr president, attention to people with special needs must be given a hand by integrating accessibility into the programme as a whole. can i assume that the commission intends to include accessibility requirements in the selection criteria and performance indicators? please find out how much emphasis the commission is going to put on accessibility for people with disabilities in relation to the corresponding budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a way that is compatible with the european union's values and standards.
in writing. today we remember the atrocities of a great and powerful state founded on the principle of the inequality of men, which therefore considered it its right to starve and then slaughter groups of people deemed undesirable in its own country and in other countries. the important thing is that this is now widely abhorred in retrospect and that virtually everyone wants to prevent a repetition of this. even the parties represented in this parliament which are most closely linked to the nazi past do not vote against this resolution but abstain, partly on the grounds that my group is also one of the authors of the resolution. the text was questioned in my group because it seems to have deliberately concealed the important role played by communists in resisting the nazi barbarity and, without amendment, could give the impression that poland shares responsibility with nazi germany for the murder of millions of jews. as a descendant of victims who were killed in auschwitz, i look less at the precise text than at the breadth of the condemnation. the lesson of auschwitz must be that humanity can only survive on the basis of human dignity, equality and solidarity.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: i am therefore particularly pleased to see that in davos and porto alegre the crucial importance of liberalizing world trade has been recognised. economic growth, mr president, is the basis of development in developing countries. whether it 's dealing with climate change or ensuring good education . i cannot stress enough that the forthcoming doha round must be a success. the european commission and the member states have a crucial role to play in this. anyone who is serious about supporting the third world must open his eyes to the abuses in his own home. the european tariff walls are, to my taste, an example of how not to do things. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the pleas for additional taxation on international financial transactions, the famous tobin tax, are strange to me, and the same is true of additional taxes on multinational companies. i see no point in such measures. they strap the horse behind the cart. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, mr president, i am surprised at those who advocate the unconditional cancellation of the debts of the developing countries. my group does not accept that this should be done without conditions. countries which are actively and successfully pursuing democracy and good governance can, in our view, count on support, but without that commitment there can be no reduction of debt. the liberal priorities, mr president, are a freer world trade and an emphasis on economic development. that is the way to fight poverty and that is the basis for a well-functioning and affordable social safety net and that is how we are working towards a more environmentally friendly policy. the question is: we are all in solidarity but we are all apathetic, or we are going down the other path of dynamism, innovation and progress. i welcome the leadership of the president of the european commission to take that other path. yes, mr barroso, that is a political role and we want you to act politically. i think your position in the portuguese elections is very justifiable and your absence would have been a complete disloyalty to your portuguese heritage. i think that is very justifiable and i only regret that it has not helped your party sufficiently.
mr president, tonight we are again discussing the magic word of mutual recognition. mutual recognition as a cornerstone of european judicial cooperation. the first condition is, of course, that the member states should cooperate effectively. that they can see beyond borders and also know how things are elsewhere. that they also agree on a number of basic standards, for example in criminal procedure law, and above all that they also build on trust in each other and also on the reasons why they can indeed trust each other. the proposal by mr costa is particularly important for the work on confidence, efficiency and good administration of justice. the report by mr di pietro is mainly concerned with improving cooperation on information. my group therefore fully supports both reports and i would also like to thank you very much for the great work you have put into this and the fine cooperation, but much more is needed than these small steps forward. there is a whole host of new proposals in the making, and they are all small steps forward, at least on paper. because in my experience, the member states are very often on the brakes. for them, the idea of mutual recognition seems to be a way of not having to change anything at national level. we all have our own shop and the others must respect the decisions of that shop. i can tell you that my group is not afraid to look beyond the frontiers. we are a little bit reluctant to face this huge pile of new rules because such a pile often affects the visibility, the resilience of the people who are constantly faced with change and also the clarity of what we are doing. i can say that my group is in favour of a european public prosecutor. we are in favour of a european code of criminal procedure, of european rights for suspects and victims, of information sharing and, above all, of a substantial investment in the thorough training of all police and judicial officials in this european cooperation. because eventually it's gonna have to be in the workplace, not here. i hope that we can join hands in a concerted effort, including a financial injection, to ensure that everyone is well informed about this.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i am sure i will do you a great favour if i say that i will not speak too long and will not bother you too long with my soft voice, because i am afraid that as a liberal i must say that there is not exactly a level playing field between me and the flu virus, but that i have simply lost the competitive edge. the eu treaty actually has two objectives which are relevant to this report. one is: on the one hand we have state aid rules which are supposed to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, on the other hand the treaty also states that these rules must not impede the proper functioning of public services. the single market has brought us many benefits, including in the area of public services. we also note that we are all very attached to the so-called european social economic model with good public services, which has also always given us a great deal of competitiveness. the proposals of the european commission are very welcome and i am glad to hear that the words of mrs kroes actually only underline what we have also put in our report, namely that we are aiming at reducing state aid on the one hand and on the other hand also at eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and that we are focusing on those matters which really disturb the internal market. that is bad for our economy and therefore bad for the foundation of public services. let me just summarize a few key points. firstly, i would like to emphasize once again that the focus must be on the citizen as a user of services and as a taxpayer. that seems a bit of an open door, but too often in reality it is actually about political interests, corporate interests, institutional interests and all kinds of other interests and that is why the interest of the individual citizen has to give way quite a bit. the second point is the definition of what are known as small services of general interest. the commission has proposed to exempt these small services from the state aid notification requirement and has more or less suggested that we apply the same threshold as for small and mediumsized enterprises, namely an annual turnover of up to eur 50 million. firstly, the committee on economic and monetary affairs has followed that suggestion on my proposal. i do think that in a few years' time we will have to start looking at what that means in practice, because we really have no idea how many companies we are dealing with, how much state aid in total, how many state aid applications. so i actually want to know exactly what the impact of that boundary is. another important point for me is what is called evidence-based policy making. for years we have been waging a classic trench warfare here in parliament between the left and the right on the liberalisation of public services. i think it is important that we get the facts on the table there at least once. we therefore call on the commission in the report to present a detailed report on the state of these public services in four years' time, when this system is due to be renewed. finally, a little more or less technical point. there is a paragraph in the report somewhere, which was inserted after we had adopted an amendment, and that paragraph seems to suggest that parliament is proposing that in all cases the contract for the provision of a particular service should be awarded by a tendering procedure. that's not the point, of course. i think there are many people, perhaps not all of them, but many who agree with me that this is a good procedure in itself and that it leads to good results in many cases, but i would like to clear up a misunderstanding, that it is not the case that parliament is going to decide here today that from today all services must be provided through such a procedure. unfortunately, no amendments have been tabled to correct this misunderstanding, but i would like to convey that message to the european commission here in the plenary.
mr president, you have indeed noted that we are here tonight with many ladies in our group and i know that the commissioner will do well to do so. i would like to try to compliment mrs vayssade on the sharp words which have been said on our part and to see how we can reach compromises on this matter. i see that there are a number of points where she herself has already indicated that she wishes to take account of our amendments. the first point is, i think, the inhouse provision of services, and we would like to stick to what we said in the herzog report last year. so if she could support amendments on that point, i think we could go a long way. the second point is public procurement, the transparent tendering which is in a number of mr purvis' amendments, which is also in an amendment by mrs wagenknecht, which states that tendering should only take place where legally required, that is where it is really required. perhaps that could be a bridge to clarify what you yourself indicate was not properly captured. and then we can, in the different texts, because there are always four different texts, we can make a consistent story. the last point is indeed the exclusion of hospitals and social housing. we also regard that as a fairly random list. we would also like to see that clearly examined and looked at what it means, but in fact we also want to indicate that much more needs to be done and much more needs to be looked at how you now set the criteria? we believe that this should not be done in four years' time, but that we should have a framework directive on services of general interest now, when the services directive is also under discussion, in order to establish clear criteria for a mix of private and public services. so i would like to continue to speak to the commissioner on that point.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party thank you, mr president, i think mr karas has rightly said that we are dealing with a kind of battle of will in this parliament and a debate on how to approach macroeconomic policy in the european union. i often get the strong impression that the epp and also parts of the liberal group are waging the previous war in this debate, and are still very much relying on old arguments, on the stability and growth pact and structural reforms, and are not tackling the challenges that are presently being faced in a clear way. and, moreover, i often get the impression that there is a great deal of national politics and national discussions going on in this european parliament instead of focusing on the european dimension. my group is more in favour of the approach taken by the european commission to reform the stability and growth pact and also the approach taken by the luxembourg presidency. i refer to the decisions of the ecofin council of 13 september last, which very clearly also set a course for reforming the stability and growth pact in the context of the wider debate and in relation to the lisbon strategy and the global economic policy guidelines. the reform of the stability pact should therefore address the preventive aspects, the differences in economic developments in the member states and the corrective aspects, and also promote an improvement in the excessive deficit procedure. but what is most important, and this is what we in our group want to emphasize, is that we are going to pursue a genuine macroeconomic policy in europe, and at the same time consider europe as an economic unit, as an economic entity. bush recently said that in the context of foreign policy. i think that this is precisely what should be at the heart of macroeconomic policy, that we should no longer compete with each other primarily as member states and seek to profile ourselves against each other and therefore also defend ourselves when it comes to the stability and growth pact, but that we should choose that european perspective and start to conduct economic policy from there. for this reason, we must also take a serious look at the lisbon strategy and its link with the reform of the stability and growth pact, and that is why my group will continue to emphasize in that debate that we will put the emphasis on investment and also look at how we will distinguish, within the standards set out in that stability and growth pact, between current expenditure and expenditure that is really intended to invest in the knowledge economy that we want in that lisbon strategy, and we do not want to do so in a way that member states themselves can decide how to account creatively, but by making clear european choices in it and setting out a european strategy to write off, for example, investments in it over a longer period, as is also the practice in the business world. we hope that some of these issues will be dealt with in these reports and that this debate will be continued in the march plenary session on the revision of the lisbon strategy and the preparations for the spring summit.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, first of all, my thanks and congratulations to frédérique ries. it has done important work to improve the implementation of the action programme on the environment and health. the action programme itself is disappointing. i admit, of course, that research is needed, but an action programme also requires that we take strong measures to tackle health problems, and those measures are lacking. our discussions in recent weeks have focused on dangerous substances and the conditions under which they can or should be withdrawn from the market. the plasticisers in toys are the most conspicuous, but other substances are also involved. our group could live with the text as adopted in the committee on the environment, but we want a stricter line. if a substance is dangerous, it should be withdrawn from the market immediately and not wait for safe alternatives. a second point of contention was smoking. tobacco smoke is a major threat to the health of the heavy smoker. we therefore call for an active policy to combat smoking in public places. we call on all member states to take inspiration from the irish and italian examples. the report on the environment and health is timely. air pollution is a particularly serious problem in europe. the european commission has calculated that air pollution causes more than 300,000 premature deaths in europe each year. in the netherlands, 13,000 people die prematurely. it does not take much imagination to assume that deaths occur more frequently among residents of highways and industrial areas than among residents of wooded hamlets. europe has taken measures over the last 20 years, of course, and these have also led to large emission reductions. the use of catalytic converters in cars is successful, but the efforts so far have not been sufficient, the figures are worrying. what do you want me to do? first of all, of course, better compliance with existing legislation, but more can and must be done. for example, where do the car's soot filters go? the question is whether the limits and limit values in the legislation are sufficient. the european environment agency notes in the signals 2004 report that there is increasing evidence that health effects are already occurring at dust and ozone concentrations below the values currently set to protect health. the protection of the environment, health and consumers requires a european approach. in the context of the lisbon process, ambitious environmental policy is a stimulus for technological development and improvement of european competitiveness. if we do not invest in environmental quality, we will not only be seriously undermining public health but also european industry. at the detroit auto show last month, a zero-emission passenger car was unveiled. we haven't seen that zero-emission car at the european car shows. so we're left with the question of who should pay for the soot filters? i prefer an ambitious europe with adequate measures to protect public health and let us start right now with making soot filters compulsory. that's very important.
rapporteur.– mr president, just for technical information with a view to giving consistency and coherence in the final document: if amendments 19 and 21 are adopted, the other paragraphs which deal with the same issue should be brought into line. this has been discussed with representatives from other groups and is a technical rather than a political matter.
mr president, to be completely clear, it means that we have oral amendments on recitals q and paragraph 19 of this document. they were not written amendments and they completely follow the text proposed in the purvis amendments. these have to be introduced on recital q and paragraph 19.
mr president, here we had to vote on one of the compromises of this set of four so this is a bit confusing. i assume that we have now voted on mr purvis's oral compromise amendment?
mr president, no, because it deals with this paragraph 19 it should come before the other votes.
rapporteur.– mr president, it is very complicated because during the whole process the structure of the report became rather complicated. i apologise for that. this concerns three amendments and five paragraphs. amendment 20, with an addition, has just been read out by mr purvis. as far as i understand that is what we have been voting on. the other two amendments are amendments 19 and 21, also by mr purvis, but the contents of those amendments also relate to recital q, paragraph 19, modification 10 and modification 17. i can read out the text concerned, because i would suggest that rather than reading it out every single time, i should read it out once, we all adopt or reject the principle and then adapt the four paragraphs concerned. the text of amendment 21, which is almost identical to amendment 19, reads as follows: ' the public service task must be assigned either by way of a fair and transparent tendering procedure or by way of an official act that, depending on the legislation in member states, may take the form of a legislative or regulatory act or a contract. it may also be laid down in several acts. the act or series of acts should specify among other things:'. this is the same principle as in amendment 19. therefore, if the plenary adopts that principle, it will also apply to the four paragraphs i have mentioned. i propose that we vote on that rather than reading it out every single time.
mr president, i think that will be complicated. the point here is that there are paragraphs where no amendments have been tabled, but they would be equally concerned because after the amendments had been tabled i think we all discovered when we went through the amendments that there were more paragraphs concerned with the same issue. now we can simply vote on the amendments, but then there will be a certain inconsistency in the document. what mr savary is suggesting will not work because it is not about the amendments - it is about the paragraphs to which no amendments have been tabled. if, when voting on amendment 19 and amendment 21 plenary twice adopts a principle or rejects it, then it will apply equally to those paragraphs. that is what i am saying.
mr president, this is a slight modification of the amendment proposed by the pse group and it would read as follows: 'whereas with a view to evidence-based policy making the commission should present a sound and exhaustive evaluation of the liberalisation process, taking into account the point of view of all stakeholders involved (users, local authorities, undertakings etc.)'.
in writing. switzerland is a european union in miniature, surrounded by eu territory but divided into 23 states, each of which has a great deal of autonomy and can therefore also have its own tax policy. this has so far prevented direct taxation agreements between the eu and switzerland as a whole. the individual swiss cantons are in this respect comparable to liechtenstein and other small tax havens where letterbox companies are located. the cantons of zug and schwyz are particularly keen to take up this role. in reply to my written questions, it was revealed that the then european commissioner, mr bolkestein, preferred to ignore this and to continue to do business with switzerland as a whole. as long as these further steps are not possible, it is good that agreements are made on vat, smuggling, corruption and money laundering. it is also important that banking secrecy can no longer be used as a reason for refusing investigative requests from other countries and that direct contacts with judicial authorities are made possible instead of having to go through the diplomatic representation. the rapporteur rightly points out that further steps are needed, but unfortunately he fails to mention the most urgent ones.
in writing. without funding and planning by states, regional governments and municipalities, we would not have adequate public transport, universal education and universal health care. for such vital activities, the idea of a government retreat and allowing free competition is disastrous. when that happens, there will no doubt be small privileged groups who feel that their freedom of choice has been increased and that their individual needs are now better met, but the vast majority and society as a whole will go backwards. this report defends the neo-liberal view and even seeks to establish an interpretation of the altmark judgment on the possibility of private award of concessions in public transport. the european commission and the european parliament have waited for years for that legal ruling because of the many conflicting interpretations on public service provision, costing and competition. there is now a legal solution which preserves the right of municipalities to provide public transport services themselves. the european commission intends to submit an amended proposal which follows my proposals adopted by this parliament on 14 november 2001. i reject neo-liberal interpretations which stand in the way of that.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, we have known for years that less and less land is needed for food production. that means we can have more extensive agriculture and in that way also create more nature. agriculture is a specific part of rural development in my view, and so is the natura 2000 programme. nature reserves play an essential role in rural development. these cannot be seen in isolation from other aspects of agriculture and other rural employment initiatives. europe has been promoting this for years through legislation, we know the birds and habitats directive, in the netherlands it is translated into the flora and fauna act, and for all these schemes we have created special payment systems. we know about the mountain farmers scheme, we know about the natura 2000 supplementary payments, etc. what do you want it to look like in the future ? i have already said that, in my view, all these programmes are part of rural development and i therefore think that we must also ensure that within the framework of the rural development fund there is a special fund for natura 2000. the big question is: how should the money be spent? we know the system of cofinancing, as the commissioner has already pointed out, and i believe that cofinancing can take special forms. in some countries, this co-financing is clearly a problem. it is probably a bigger problem for poorer countries than for richer ones. perhaps the commission could examine the possibility of having different cofinancing schemes under this programme? another point which the commission might perhaps examine - i have already said that agriculture is also a form of rural development by nature - is: are subsidies to agriculture generally more expensive than subsidies to nature development in europe?
mr president, once people have acquired the right to drive a motor vehicle, they should normally retain it as long as there are no physical or legal objections to it. i don't think there's any doubt in this house. what we do have doubts about is the way in which the citizens are confronted with it. more specifically, the standards for obtaining and maintaining that right in the form of a driving licence. in addition, driving licences also regularly function as identification material. that also makes verification aspects important. i believe we should be extremely careful in establishing someone's identity, especially when it is a stranger. the misuse of identity cards does not always seem to be conducive to a sustainable society. therefore, up-to-date identification is a must, both visually and technologically. i believe that driving skills can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of road deaths. since reduction begins with prevention, it is of the utmost importance that drivers are able to participate in traffic in a good way, both physically and mentally, in theory and in practice. it is not wrong to make demands on all drivers. those requirements should ensure the suitability of the holder. the report by mr grosch gives me a great deal of reassurance on these points, for which i am grateful.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, first of all, for his important work, which has not been easy, as this afternoon and this evening have shown. and i would like to touch on a few of the key points. firstly, we must take european fraud prevention seriously and make it possible, and we cannot do that with 110 different driving licences in europe. i therefore think it is essential that the driving licence be renewed every 10 years and that we move within another 10 years to a single fraud-proof driving licence in credit card format. we cannot leave that to subsidiarity. this parliament does not take itself seriously when we take a decision and then take 80 years to implement it. secondly, the commission proposal was too restrictive for owners of caravans, boat trailers and horse trailers who would have to obtain an additional e licence in addition to their regular b licence. i am glad that there is a majority in favour of my proposal to maintain the present situation. there's no evidence that this is unsafe, so we shouldn't make the rules unnecessarily complicated. and thirdly, the heavy motorcycle licence. if we follow the outcome of the transport committee, the graduated access to heavy engines would even be valid for up to 24 years. and that's going too far. an 18-year-old can drive a big land rover, but you have to be 24 to ride a heavy motorcycle right away. that's just too weird and unfair. that is why, with the support of my colleague mr bradbourn, i have tabled an amendment with the epp which makes it possible, as it is now, to start riding a heavy motorcycle from the age of 21. and i would urge my colleagues to support this amendment. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). thank you, sir.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, we are discussing the directive on criminal sanctions for combating illegal oil spills at sea and as your rapporteur i am very pleased with the agreement reached with the council at second reading. it took a lot of intensive consultation and the agreement we have reached with the council ensures a firm but also fair european approach to illegal oil spills and oil disasters. i would like to stress once again in this house the social importance of this directive. the bill is a direct result of the prestige oil spill. hundreds of kilometres of coastline were seriously damaged and the current package of measures really does not only cover those accidents but also aims to combat illegal discharges into european coastal waters. these illegal oil spills do not easily make the front pages of the newspapers but are a greatly underestimated and under-reported problem, since some 90,000 cases of illegal oil dumping take place in european waters every year. every year beaches become polluted again, and as many as 40% of the dead seabirds on the north sea coast are the result of oil pollution. the council has taken a long time to reach a common position. that common position was not enough for parliament. we do not want paper tigers but good european agreements on detection and sanctions. the council has met parliament's expectations in this respect, and that is good for the citizens of europe and the environment. i should like to explain the main points. firstly, the harsh penalties for preventing illegal discharges. in december the council adopted a framework decision on the sanctions in the third pillar. the council has thus paved the way for this agreement. this third pillar proposal is also firmly anchored in the directive by including a passage on criminal offences. the council also ensured that both legislative proposals were adopted in parallel. parliament has thus strengthened its institutional position in anticipation of the new constitution. secondly, the detection of illegal discharges. most countries have little or no ability to act against illegal discharges, but by lowering the threshold for combating them to serious negligence, we ensure that europe can really act against violations; however, we must not go into a disproportionate criminalization of crew and captain and there has been much discussion about this. parliament welcomes the protection afforded by international conventions in the case of illegal discharges, but this is more complicated in the case of accidents. the commission and the council do not want to have additional marpol protection in territorial waters, because then there would be little practical action. a majority of the transport committee agreed with that. i have to say that i am not satisfied with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. can you, commissioner barrot, remove the fear that some people still have that the crew will be criminalised in advance in the event of accidents, because that is not the intention? mr president, the third point. the european coast guard, this is a longstanding wish of this parliament, necessary for effective prevention and detection of oil pollution. this wish has not been recognised by the council so far, and this agreement has. i am therefore very pleased that the council has recognised the principle of a european coastguard. it has been agreed that the european commission will present a feasibility study before the end of 2006, and commissioner barrot, we welcome the results of your study and also your proposal for a european coastguard. finally, we must of course do everything we can to prevent pollution, and that is the purpose of the directive on port reception facilities, but it is still completely inadequate. and what is the commission going to do to improve this? i thank my colleagues for the confidence they have shown in me and for the pleasant cooperation, and also the secretariat of the committee on transport; i also thank the european commission for all its support and cooperation. last but not least; the luxembourg presidency has been very diligent in negotiating, and it has not been easy. i am pleased with the result, i thank you for it, especially in view of the importance for the citizens and the environment along our coasts and in our coastal waters.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, we are not just talking about mr wortmann's report at the moment, but also about the agreement it has reached with the council. there are two things that i find very important in this case. firstly, we must realise that shipping is a global industry which can only function optimally if the legislation is also adopted at a global level. i am therefore pleased that the council and the rapporteur have both agreed to the marpol legislation. furthermore, legislation without adequate control and sanctions is pointless. i am glad that the rapporteur has been able to persuade the council to make a concrete commitment on the criminal side of this matter. i would like to conclude by saying that i look forward to the commission's study on the formation of a european coastguard. perhaps he can show me the use of such an organ. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party thank you, mr president, i am very pleased with the agreement at first reading on the river information services and i would also like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of the epp group for all her efforts and congratulate her on the result achieved, because this is an important proposal to improve safety in inland navigation. shippers will have comprehensive information on water levels, lock levels and other navigational data across europe and port and terminal operators will be able to make better use of their capacity. so it is an important proposal to promote european inland navigation. i think it is important, mr president, that the cost of this system should not be too high for the inland vessel operators and the public authorities. the inland waterway sector consists of self-employed small entrepreneurs with limited investment capacity and should not be forced into expensive systems, while cheap alternatives are also available on the market. inland vessels must be able to connect to the ris via a single system in all countries and i am therefore pleased that this is well regulated in the agreement reached by the rapporteur on behalf of parliament. and it's also very important to recognize that the systems that are used need to be watertight when it comes to all kinds of business sensitive information. i would like to support the rapporteur's report, mr president, because this directive creates a framework for river information services. but much technical work is still to be done before it can be implemented. i would therefore like to join mr chichester in his plea that this technical development should be practical and as close as possible to the working processes of inland vessel owners. so there is a need for consultation and i would therefore urge the commissioner to involve the inland waterway sector in this technical work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european maritime safety agency. commissioner, can you promise me this? the success of inland waterway transport is very important for sustainable european transport.
on behalf of the group.– first, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sommer, who did a great job. there is one issue i would like to raise, which has already been mentioned by commissioner barrot. over and over again, all european institutions and member states have publicly declared that they will make every effort to improve the transparency of eu decision-making. that is something we in the european parliament and, in particular the alde group, fully support. in line with the inter-institutional agreement and a number of other action plans, the commission decided that all its proposals for directives should contain a specific provision to make it compulsory for member states to establish tables illustrating the correlation between the act in question and the transposition measures. this should include the communication of these tables to the commission. however, during recent informal inter-institutional negotiations with the dutch and luxembourg presidencies on proposals for a directive on river information services and a seafarers' certificate, it became clear that the council is not willing to maintain that provision. as the commissioner said, the council's solution is a recital which refers to the agreement on the subject and deletes the obligation imposed on member states in the text of the directive itself. the alde group is very concerned by the council's approach, as it is not only limited to this directive. our group therefore decided to single out this issue and to request a split vote on amendment 53. i am aware that not all of you are happy about resolving this political issue with the council through specific dossiers. however, i think it is time for this house to act. i can only hope that the other groups make every effort to improve the transparency of eu decision-making and follow our line in this matter.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party thank you, mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts. it is perhaps symbolic that after the vote in favour of the spanish constitution the fisheries control office will be assigned to vigo, and i think that is a just reward, also in view of the great political efforts of our colleagues in favour of the vote in favour of the constitution. at the same time, i am somewhat disappointed in the commissioner's response, because he said that many amendments which had been adopted by the committee on fisheries were unacceptable or could not be implemented. i do not think the commissioner has the ambition to do that. and i think back to that constitution for a moment, because if this report were to be considered in five years' time, the commission would not be able to get away with saying that this is not acceptable or that i cannot accept it; i would therefore ask the commissioner to be a little more ambitious in this respect, also in relation to the implementation of the amendments tabled by my group. one of the main points of my group is that we are seeing a growing lack of confidence in the whole fisheries policy between the fisheries sector on the one hand and brussels on the other. that gap needs to be closed, and it is precisely the commitment of the sector itself, the contribution of the sector itself, of the fisheries organisations in the management of this fisheries inspection agency, that could help to close the gap between the european union and the fisheries sector. there are good examples outside the european union where things are going well. look at iceland, look at norway, where the fishing sector has more influence on policy and is more involved in setting it up and good control of it. the commission could show a little more ambition and also more understanding on this point, also for the efforts of the epp group to close this gap. i would like to ask the commissioner, mr president, to act as if the new constitution were already a reality and to take parliament's commitment more seriously, because i am sure that this new commissioner and the new bureau will also be able to do well.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, boss in your own home, who wouldn't want that? most lebanese are, too. the reality is different. the long-standing syrian military presence on its own territory is becoming increasingly painful. the cowardly murder of former prime minister hariri is now unleashing this international pain of lack of lebanese sovereignty. how could the european union, in this situation, ever conclude an association agreement with beirut? and how can the council and the commission now propose to the european parliament a similar agreement with the occupying damascus, as if the un security council resolution 1559 calling for the syrian withdrawal from lebanon is completely ignored by brussels? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give me the courage to urge the commission to comply with this resolution. the same resolution, resolution 1559, also stipulates the dismantling of the lebanese shiite terrorist organization hezbollah. it operates from the south of the country against israel, armed to the teeth and trained by the protectors of syria and iran. it is time for action, council and commission, towards damascus and tehran. such european political action will also promote new opportunities in the israeli-palestinian comparison. recent statements by the current palestinian leadership leave the european union with no other choice. these statements are unequivocal. hezbollah does not want any palestinian negotiations with israel and is offering no less than $100,000 for palestinian suicide bombings. the palestinian people do not rule out hezbollah's terror against their own negotiators. council, be resolute and put hezbollah on the european list of terrorist organisations at last. it is only then that the member states will be credible to themselves vis-à-vis the united states and, of course, not to mention to the non-member states of the entire mediterranean area. thank you.
president, when in the autumn of 2003 mr mahmoud abbas was forced to resign as prime minister because yasser arafat did not give him the space to work for peace, few people thought that a year and a half later we would have such a historic chance of lasting peace. and historically, this is an opportunity. if we look at the pragmatic position taken by mahmoud abbas, the reaction, the first reaction of israel, and the historic demand by the people of lebanon for their right to freedom and self-determination, i think that everything must be done now to send the right signals from europe. what are these signals? first of all, together with the united states, to push for the revival of the road map, but also, as mr brok has just said, to give aid to the palestinians right now, so that the people there will see as soon as possible that the pragmatists, the moderates, can really benefit. thirdly, mr president, we must also send a clear signal, clearer than before, to those who wish to do us harm. i am referring in particular to hezbollah, because we in europe have a very strange approach to this. we have said at one point in the case of hamas that the whole of hamas is both politically and militarily wrong. we are still ambivalent about hezbollah. we say there that the military branch is wrong, but politically we can do business with it. there is no reason to continue this division any longer because this division is unbelievable. there is a leader, mr. nasrallah of politics and military. we always say, we are an organization. the second man in the organization, sheikh naim qassem who says, we are an organization, politically and militarily we have the same intention "political activity is integrated into resistance operations, it is an inseparable part of the political activity". that is the second person from hezbollah who says that and if there is any doubt, i would like to quote from the representative of hezbollah in the lebanese parliament, where we are doing business. the man says: "hezbollah is an organization in which all the fighters are all simultaneously politicians and fighters. the manner in which some in the west seek to betray hezbollah does not deceive us". my friends, at this very moment, there is no longer any reason for naivety. we must send the right signal to the palestinians, to the israelis, to the lebanese who want freedom by taking a clear stand against the malign hezbollah. i know that the dutch government has tried in recent rasep to get rid of that double-dealing and to put the whole of hezbollah on the list of terrorist organisations. i think the people of the middle east deserve that signal from the whole union. i would ask the commissioner and the council representative to look into this. why are we still ambivalent towards hezbollah and when can we finally, as with hamas, fight the whole organization with fire and sword?
mr president, a debate on europe's commitment to global respect for human rights in the context of the un would not be complete without the observation that one in five people, especially women, still do not have access to food, water, health care and basic education. that's what i call a global human rights violation. the millennium development goals are the concrete goals that world leaders have set themselves in the un framework to improve this situation. five years after that ambitious approach, we can see that we are far from meeting those objectives. all children should be in school by 2015, girls first. in practice, that turns out to be an empty shell. the right to development is often denied. the challenge for the european union is to finally achieve the millennium goals of 'putting your money where your mouth is'. most member states are still far from the 7% development cooperation target. the european union is still a long way from its commitment to spend 20% of the development budget on basic education and basic health care. let us make this the real human rights battle in the setting of the 2007-2013 billion-dollar perspective. if these objectives are achieved, mr president, 500 million people can be lifted out of extreme poverty, more than 300 million people can be kept from starving, 30 million children can be saved from premature death, two million mothers will die less in childbirth, 100 million girls and young women will go to school more. that's respect for human rights.
in writing. as a non-smoker, i am voting in favour of amendment no 4, which was tabled by alde on my own initiative. this amendment provides that the establishment of separate areas for smokers with adequate ventilation should be allowed for the catering industry. i would like to call on the commission to leave room for market initiatives to deal with the problem of (co-) smoking in the catering sector. modern ventilation techniques make it possible to raise the quality of indoor air to a higher level than even outdoor air. by banning smoking from above by law, you take this kind of innovative action out of the market and with it a bit of dynamism from the economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a european smoking ban will also have repercussions on employment in the tourist sector, while smokers will be adequately informed about the dangers of smoking. if smoking is banned in europe, what will be the next ban? alcohol or fast food because of obesity, driving because of the traffic casualties, or even sex, since most people die in bed.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president. - mr president, listening to the council and the commission, the commissioner and the president of the council, it is clear that there must be a common signal from all of us, the three institutions, to moldova, to the moldovan government in the run-up to the elections on 6 march, and that is also the meaning of today's debate and of the resolution which we will no doubt adopt tomorrow by a large majority in this parliament. the people of moldova will be able to vote on the composition of a new parliament next sunday, and that is of course an important moment for the country, because the elections will also result in a new leadership of that country. and i personally think that the poor state of affairs in moldova itself will set the tone of the election campaign there, because the development of that country over the past year is not exactly encouraging. it has become the poorest country in europe. but i think that for us there are two other issues of great importance, firstly the issue of transnistria and the search for a solution to the unacceptable situation in that part of moldova, and i think that only a democratically legitimated government will have the authority to allow new initiatives and to be involved in new initiatives. there's room for that now. president yushchenko made a clear statement this morning about the willingness of the new ukrainian government to work towards a solution and we absolutely need ukraine to do that. but i think the point is that the election will produce a government that has the authority to work together on solutions. the commissioner has also said that the future direction of the country is an important issue and that the parties seem to agree on the need to move closer to europe and the european union. we would naturally welcome a new government in chisinau with a european orientation, and the action plan agreed with moldova under the neighbourhood policy provides the concrete framework for this. however, the strengthening of cooperation and political relations with the european union is conditional on the mandate of the moldovan government being based on a fully democratic vote of the people, otherwise we will have a difficult time doing business in the years to come. a government legitimized by the people is the first interlocutor for the european union and when it chooses a credible european course it can expect support from the european union. but if the elections do not meet democratic standards, that casts a shadow on future cooperation. a democratic and credible regime and leadership is a prerequisite for european involvement. we therefore urge the government in power to do everything possible to ensure that the elections and the campaigns are fair and open. and that is why, in particular, a balanced access to the media must be guaranteed from all sides, and i agree with what the commissioner has said on this subject, and we also very much appreciate the commission's efforts in relation to these elections.
president. - the romanian-speaking area formerly known as bessarabia and now moldova was alternately romanian and russian. it would never have been a state without the pact between stalin and hitler that established the new western borders of the soviet union on the eve of world war ii. both in the romanian-speaking sector west of the dniester and in the slavic sector east of it, there is a common nostalgia for the kind of society that existed in the time of the soviet union. all these conditions do not constitute a favourable starting point for democracy, tolerance, transparency and pluralism. they can lead to a desire for authoritarian rule among the various groups of the population against those whom they consider to be opponents. this could lead to the possibility of distorted elections, as in ukraine and belarus last year. it is therefore important that we now declare that we are also granting this poorest country in europe a normal parliamentary democracy with equal rights and opportunities for all parties taking part in the elections on 6 march.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, the initiative taken in new york on 20 september 2004, with lula and annan in the lead, contains good ideas on aid, trade debts, remission of debts and new forms of financing. but in 2000, world leaders signed a declaration committing themselves to the millennium development goals, which were to be achieved by about 2015. now in 2005, the world can see that in africa, a goal like "everyone to school" has not come closer but has gone further. the promise to finance 0.7% of the national budget has also not been fulfilled. in 2004, such a declaration would be a bit like "management by declaration"; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must do so now and not, as far as i am concerned, by creating a new global fund. the eu is committed to the mdgs by focusing all existing aid flows - the world health fund, the european development fund, the activities of the imf and the world bank - from the north and the south on the mdgs. tough appointments, tight direction and coordination. europe, as the world's largest donor, can take the lead. at the same time, 0.5% of the national development cooperation budget should be achieved by all european member states in 2010 and 0.7% in 2015. the eu itself should set aside 10% in its own financial multiannual perspectives, channelled through a single development budget with the mdgs as a legally binding instrument. this includes debt relief for poor countries to make room for water, education and basic services; the imf's increase in gold reserves is also a consequence of this. this includes fair trade and the immediate cessation of export subsidies, while new sources are provided. not to forget about the 0.7, but to think about new sources that are interesting. taxing the negative aspects of globalisation, such as short-term capital or arms trade, is also a good idea. it's time to act. i believe that the presidency is in good hands and is happy to work with michel and the other commissioners in that direction. we shall look in particular at the multiannual financial perspectives to see what all our declarations are worth.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the fight against poverty is at the heart of it and we will not achieve the objectives if we continue to work at the present pace and with the present means. it is well known that if we really want to, we can still catch them and we must do our best to do so. the fight against hunger is one of the most important areas of action. every day, some 24,000 people die of hunger and malnutrition, 24,000 too many. our approach can only succeed if we arrive at a coherent policy on development aid, agriculture and trade and if we meet our commitments. that is why i wholeheartedly support the resolution. i would like to draw attention to one point which is not explicitly mentioned in the resolution, namely the position of women. research shows that the role of women is crucial to the success of development cooperation policies. however, women in the countries concerned are still not involved enough in the preparation and implementation of programmes. mr president, i am impressed by the work of the hunger project. recently, they have launched a major awareness campaign in the netherlands. it is a worldwide organization that is fighting hunger in many developing countries. their approach seems to be extremely successful, precisely because they focus on women through training, education, micro-credit, etc. through them they are able to achieve a significant and lasting improvement in social conditions and a reduction in hunger. women have a key role in society in agriculture, education, family hygiene, etc., which are crucial factors in fighting hunger. i hope, mr president, that we will be able to achieve a more effective policy by means of a more vigorous and coherent policy. as the largest donor, let europe also play a leading role in working towards the millennium development goals, and do not forget to involve women in the countries.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party. - mr president, as from 1 january 2005, wto members will no longer be able to use quotas for the impact of textiles and clothing. the implications for the european market are enormous. the first figures for january this year compared with the same period last year show that a fivefold increase in imports of clothing products from china is no exception. this has, of course, major consequences for european manufacturing industry. of course, it has been known for ten years that quotas are running out and perhaps industry could have prepared better for that. but now that it appears that hundreds of thousands of jobs - some say - at least thousands of jobs are at stake, i can imagine that there is some thought about protective measures or the temporary reintroduction of part of the quotas to give the industry a little more time to adapt. the wto accession protocol of china also allows it. mr president, if the commission is considering measures in any way, it does bring a new problem, especially when it comes to quotas. there are european importers of clothing from china who have already made large financial commitments for 2005. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore urge the commission and the council to ensure that any re-introduction of quotas or other protective measures will be such that those who have anticipated the new situation will not fall victim to them. finally, mr president, i also believe, and this has already been said, that we must do everything possible to ensure that china also complies with its wto obligations in respect of the opening up of its own market.
mr president, well-meaning initiatives sometimes have bad consequences. the fao writes to parliament this week: 1.- we are mentioned seven times in the european commission's proposal, but we have not been consulted once on this proposal. 2.- there are currently no specific requests from governments for european boats. 3.- the boats and the industrial fishing sector on the atlantic coast are completely different from the canoe and catamaran craft of sri lanka and india. 4.- local yards have to repair the affected boats, which they are good at, which provides money, work and livelihoods for the people there. that would be about 2,500 boats with our money instead of the 200 listed here. 5.- avoid further damage to already severely affected fishing grounds and local fishing communities. mr president, that can only lead to one conclusion. help the local fishermen in the yards, but don't send any ships, no new tsunami on the asian coasts, no matter how well-intentioned. i am disappointed that the commission is only willing to accept 3 of the 22 amendments tabled by the european parliament, which i would have liked to support. on the basis of all this, and also on the basis of the letter from the fao and the reports from the local ngos, i shall vote against this proposal.
mr president, thank you for this opportunity to give a very brief statement about my vote on the transfer of vessels to countries hit by the tsunami. i completely agree with mr evans. i think that the region needs real help, not some symbolic gesture from the european union. i was very disappointed with the answers we received from the commission as regards our criticism and amendments. right up until the last minute i was undecided whether i would vote for or against, but in the end i voted against. this statement explains my decision.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. it happened before in sri lanka, azerbaijan, syria and the democratic republic of congo, recently in togo and perhaps soon in egypt. sometimes succession is preceded by elections, but the winner is determined in advance. in togo, that phase has been skipped. the gnassingbe family took power from the olympio family by force long ago and wants to keep it that way. a lightning-fast change in the constitution after the death of the head of state made it possible for the president of parliament not to temporarily succeed him and prepare new presidential elections, but for the son to take over the state as if it were the inheritance of private property. actually, the son's position is no less legal than his father's. it's the continuation of an old coup. the continuation of this process has, however, removed the hope that togo could develop into a democracy after a german colonial occupation, a french colonial occupation and a long internal dictatorship. until now, the people have had to accept that profiteers have almost always been in power. these profiteers are relying on military power and were not interested in serving the interests of their people but in taking a privileged position for themselves. this situation must be brought to an end. not just in togo, not just in africa, but all over the world. let us not be selectively indignant at togo, but let us help to end military and economic protection for such regimes everywhere. that's what this is about right now. it's not the exception, it's more the rule. that means that we must ensure that this kind of effect does not happen again and that it is a good thing if free elections can be held in togo soon.
mr president, like afghanistan, nepal was a holiday destination in the 1960s and 1970s for alternative young people from western europe who were looking for a less materialistic lifestyle, different clothing and drugs, which were much less known then than they are today. now both of these alternative holiday destinations have become a place of terror, where no one will go who considers himself a tourist or a seeker of a better world. in both countries, attempts have been made over the past decades to impose a uniform authority from above without the real support of a majority of the population. there are also foreign interests in bringing a government to power or imposing a new regime. under such circumstances, people, realizing that they cannot bring about change peacefully, take up arms. in nepal successive kings have dismissed democratically elected governments because they thought they could do better. in doing so, they have not only pitted different political parties against each other but also called for a popular uprising. rebels have taken control of much of the country, especially in the west. the violent parties on both sides are not deterred. meanwhile, official politics are struggling over how best to control the rebels: the question is whether the european union will be able to achieve its objectives by means of a uniform dictatorship of the king or by means of a parliamentary democracy. belgian arms suppliers protect the king from the rebels. this hopeless misery must end. the traditions that mr mann is celebrating will not be coming back in that form any time soon, but the people of nepal do have the right to their own choice, to democracy and to human rights. let us not in any way impede the choice of the people of nepal.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0310/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0310/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0310/97). we must recognize that this chaos and decline have arisen from the persistent backwardness of the population inland. the population is poor, poorly educated and the least urbanized. they see the english-speaking coastal population as colonialists whom they want to oppose. this is particularly true in liberia, which was established in the 19th century as a homecoming colony for freed african slaves in the americas. that group ruled that country and the other group saw itself as colonially dominated, as was done from europe in other african countries. in all african countries, the fact that the present state borders have been drawn by foreign colonial powers also plays a role. groups that belong together with a common language and culture have become separated. groups that have very little to do with each other are brought together in one state union. mr posselt also referred to this today in the context of the togo agenda item. adventurers and profiteers who use drug-addicted children as killers and who adorn themselves with the heads of slain victims have terrorized anyone outside their control. charles taylor, by the way, was well educated in america and was accepted as president before, after which it took a lot of effort to get rid of him again. more importantly, after picking up one person, groups that have regressed to the ancient times in the interior will have the opportunity to develop into full-fledged 21st-century human beings. i would caution against placing all our hopes on the influence of nigeria. nigeria is a regional power, but it also has a tradition of internal tribal strife, coups and dictatorships, although fortunately things have been much better there recently. without the involvement and equality of all groups of inhabitants, the problems in liberia and sierra leone will not be solved in a sustainable way.
mr president, as president of liberia, charles taylor has committed serious crimes against humanity and war crimes. atrocities such as murder, mutilation, rape and the recruitment of child soldiers were committed by armed opposition groups in sierra leone, actively supported by charles taylor. under his rule, liberia was beset by violence and abuse of power, all of which resulted in great human suffering. we can't let that go unpunished. it is therefore necessary to encourage nigeria to extradite charles taylor to the sierra leone tribunal in order to bring justice to the countless victims and their families, including those in liberia, and to bring peace to west africa. the european union is committed to peace, security, stability, respect for human rights and democratic principles. we cannot therefore turn a blind eye to the fact that charles taylor is staying in nigeria with complete impunity and from there is still able to manipulate the peace process in the region. nigeria not only has a moral obligation to extradite charles taylor to the tribunal, it is also an obligation arising from international law. the international legal order, including the geneva conventions, provides that war crimes must be tried at all times. this international rule of law ensures that states refrain from providing international protection to this type of criminal. nigeria will have to extradite charles taylor to the sierra leone tribunal so that the tribunal can try him.
in leeuwarden, friesland, a strike is currently taking place in which 30 workers from the atoglas company have stopped work in protest against the plan of the french parent company total-fina-elf to close down atoglas. atoglas is a well-run and innovative company and independent experts have declared that there is a profitable future for atoglas. the works council fully supports this and wants to prevent closure. yet the french management wants to close the company. i cannot understand why total-fina-elf is ignoring the arguments of the works council. total-fina is a company with a social responsibility. listening to the works council is the least you should do. it is also incomprehensible to me that total-fina is blind to the innovation taking place in friesland. we can also expect french companies to have an eye on regional development in the netherlands. the european constitution emphasises that regional cohesion and solidarity between member states are a common objective. the strikers in friesland are appealing to this european objective and to total-fina. keep the atoglas open. i call on my colleagues to support the strikers in friesland.
i have raised the problem of european prisoners in thailand on a number of occasions. there is still a great deal wrong with the dutch prisoners and that forces me to raise it again. not only is mr rien parlevliet seriously ill, and the rotterdamers li yang and eddy tang, who are on death row, are not doing well, but i would like to refer again to the case of machiel kuijt. arrested in april 1997, acquitted, on appeal six and a half years later, suddenly sentenced to life imprisonment, and now awaiting a judgment in cassation. in january 2004, on the occasion of the dutch royal visit to thailand, it was promised that the ruling would be made before the summer. but the supreme court has been silent ever since. we are being mocked by the thai legal authorities and this disgrace cannot continue. consular matters are the domain of the member states, but i wonder whether the union can also allow such a violation of the fundamental rights of its citizens. it is good that the european commission is following these kinds of cases, but there is also a task for the council and the high representative.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission welcomes the report of the european parliament on the eib annual report 2003 and encourages the eib group and parliament to continue the ongoing dialogue which has developed over successive annual reports. the commission is working more and more closely with the eib group on a wide range of issues, both within and outside the european union. as a ‘policy driven’ bank, the eib needs to keep its finger on the pulse of european policy development and to react when necessary. within the union, the eib has a very important role to play in taking forward the lisbon agenda and the european action for growth. i would particularly like to highlight, as does parliament’s report, the innovation 2010 initiative, which supports innovation and research and development, and the ten infrastructure facility, which finances ten projects. the bank’s long experience of infrastructure projects, and therefore its ability to offer expert advice, can and should add value above and beyond the financial advantages conferred by its loans. i would especially welcome the environmental activities of the eib, particularly its expanded lending for renewable energy projects. outside the union, the european investment bank has expanded its operations with existing partners and also taken on new partners. i would particularly like to highlight the bank’s work in the mediterranean partner countries, where activities under the femip have grown year-on-year. as parliament has noted, we will need to ensure that the bank’s future external activities are firmly framed in the context of the community’s external relations policies. we will take this into account during the work to develop the next set of external lending mandates, which will need to be in place from 2007 onwards. parliament’s report suggests that prudential rules be laid down to ensure that eib loans do not compromise the sustainability of the member states’ public debt. i would like to point out that the existing framework under the stability and growth pact provides a detailed and powerful mechanism for ensuring that member states’ borrowing is undertaken in a sustainable fashion. of course, you will be aware that we are seeking to enhance the pact still further. among the elements of revision of the pact that have been discussed, there is the need to increase the focus on long-term aspects of public finances, and to take increasingly into account government risks that can lead to increased debt in the future. specifically on public-private partnerships, the commission has provided more detailed statistical guidance for recording them in public accounts and has stressed the importance of demonstrating their value for money. the commission acknowledges the good work undertaken by the eib in recent years to improve its transparency and corporate governance. the new eib corporate governance statement provides a useful summary of its policies across a range of corporate governance aspects. the commission encourages the eib to listen closely to the comments received during the forthcoming public consultation exercise on its public information policies. in conclusion, the commission welcomes parliament’s report and hopes that the fruitful policy dialogue between the european investment bank and parliament will continue.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lipietz, for his report, which is balanced and positive about the performance of the eib. this is justified, since the eib has made positive progress compared with previous years. especially in terms of transparency and openness. i would also like to congratulate the eib, and in particular its president-in-office, mr maistadt, on behalf of the ppe. we also recognize that there is still work to be done in the area of supervision. the issue of the prudential supervision of the eib is therefore rightly one of the main topics in the annual report and unfortunately there is still no satisfactory solution to this issue. the question is how best to ensure prudential supervision in the future. i would like to ask the eib and the commission to present a view on prudential supervision in the next annual report. can you promise that? then the targets. the emphasis should be on the role that the eib can play in the lisbon strategy, strengthening innovation, research and development. increased synergies between eib and commission programmes can make a significant contribution to this, as can co-financing from commission programmes for projects, for example under the innovation 2010 initiative, but also vice versa. if projects have been approved by the commission and co-financing is required, it would be nice if there was also the possibility of eib assistance. i would therefore ask the eib to develop a suitable instrument for this, so that companies can participate more quickly in programmes such as craft and collective research. the role of smes in the use of loans still needs to be strengthened, mr president, because there are great differences between the member states. i would therefore urge the eib to involve smes directly in the promotion and not to promote loans only through banks in the member states, because there are too many differences between member states, especially in the new member states. we are happy to support mr lipietz's report in the vote tomorrow.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). i should therefore like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for an excellent report which is receiving support from all quarters. we support the positive course which the european investment bank has been following for a number of years. several colleagues have already noted that the eib is policy-driven and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the european union, as set out in, for example, lisbon and gothenburg. we wholeheartedly support that. i would like to stress that the eib's independence must of course be preserved and that the eib must concentrate on areas where it has added value. it should also, above all, support the promotion of development. i would also like to draw attention to a few minor points. the eib's activities must of course be consistent and not mutually undermining. on the one hand, it is to be welcomed that more and more funds are being allocated to projects to support the environment, for example renewable energy sources. that is very good, but care must be taken not to finance at the same time other projects with a very negative impact on the environment, because one action will negate the other. several colleagues have already stressed the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises as europe's engine of employment. i fully agree with that and i would also like to call on the eib to focus on innovation. a small point which i myself welcome is the mention of the year of micro-credit and on the eve of international women's day it is perhaps also worth mentioning that investments in small businesses run by women in particular are very profitable in other parts of the world. that's one thing to say. finally, colleagues have already noted that good progress is being made in terms of transparency and governance. however, there are still a number of criticisms, for example from bank watch and the rapporteur. i can only recommend that the eib take this criticism to heart and continue on this positive course. then we will undoubtedly have even more reason to congratulate the eib next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that it is not an easy task to draw up a report on the activities of the eib was demonstrated last year in the committee on economic and monetary affairs by mrs ridruejo's draft report. the idea of european institutions in such extremes is fruitless and does not do justice to the situation in which the institution must operate. the brief report we are discussing today, however, is nuanced. i have a few comments on the report. i think that the report by mr lipietz does not take account of the role of credit in the environment. the eib's environmental report is too limited in my view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. the rapporteur rightly notes in paragraph 20 that more attention should be paid to improving the control of the eib's accounts. in addition to the assessment of the loans and the conditions under which they are granted, the eib's organisation should also be assessed. the question of the efficiency of the organization and the accountability of the resources spent should be asked. the eib is a financial institution of the european union established by the treaty and should therefore also be subject to the control of the european court of auditors. a good relationship with the court of auditors and olaf can help to build trust. thirdly, i would like to draw attention to the ethical aspects of the granting of credit. the eib's lending is in line with the ethical standards we as the european parliament advocate. this includes funding for scientific research and investment in technological development. are there any appropriations for research and development which do not have political and moral support in this parliament? i hope that we shall get an answer to that question in this debate. finally, mr president, we particularly welcome the attention given to micro-credit in paragraph 6. supporting small-scale initiatives offers the opportunity to deliver tailor-made solutions and it is pleased that this instrument is receiving the recognition it deserves. i would like to call for a commitment to the quality of the projects themselves and of the lending for them. the rapid growth of this type of credit runs the risk of over-criticism in the quality of projects and credit. as the selection of projects is to be carefully considered, i call for a solid approach, working with institutions with experience in microcredit. to avoid the instrument's collapse on its own success, the eib must therefore actively strive for a continuing high quality of microcredit.
i would also like to distance myself from the remarks made by mr martin. i think that there is absolutely no indication in paragraph 21 of this resolution that we are dissatisfied with the transparency of the european investment bank. moreover, the cases to which mr martin refers - the riots and the sensationalism which was attempted last year over a report on the investment bank - have proved to be untrue in practice. my intervention is intended primarily to emphasize the relationship between the eib's activities and the lisbon strategy. i think that, as a variant of the title of the kok ii report, 'jobs, jobs, jobs', the slogan 'investments, investments, investments' should be one of the main ones for the lisbon strategy. the eib has a very important role to play in this respect. i mention, for example, the eur 7.1 billion invested in 2004 under the innovation initiative. this is precisely the investment we need, namely investment in research and development, in training and education, and in ict developments. in the note to the ecofin council on 2 february i saw that innovative action was also being taken with regard to financial instruments. this note contains a whole series of ideas, some of which have already been implemented, but some of which are still in development, in particular to ensure that a number of the possibilities of the investment bank can be used and used as effectively as possible for micro-credit, for smes, for the very innovative investments that are needed. i mention e-technology, assessment centres and the cooperation between different activities under the research programme. i would therefore like to emphasize this point in particular. i also hope that the ecofin ministers will make the link between investing and the way they deal with spending and investment in the stability and growth pact. i also hope that this discussion will continue.
president. - a month or three ago, on 10 and 11 december, i participated on behalf of the european parliament in the trilateral energy conference of the nordic council, the baltic assembly and the benelux interparliamentary consultative council. the main topics discussed were the promotion of renewable energy and the future of nuclear sources. an excellent document was presented, 'sustainable and secure energy supplies', which will also be discussed in the committee on industry, research and energy at the end of this month. the parliamentary delegations at the conference have once again established that we have not achieved the objectives we set ourselves in gothenburg and lisbon. the increase in the share of renewable energy from 6% to 12% will not be achieved. the finite nature of fossil energy sources requires an intensification of research programmes. we shall do so in this parliament when we consider the locatelli report next wednesday. the combination of private and public resources is the formula for the lisbon agenda. the need for new investment options and new forms - public private partnership, if you will - is also at issue here. commissioner piebalgs can speak freely within the priorities of this parliament and on a voluntary basis - i am not talking about hidden energy taxes, which is unacceptable - but within these framework conditions. the european investment in hydrogen technology, for example, as advocated by the high level group, is necessary. we know, the oil companies have a lot of room at the moment, they are important partners and they are doing a lot, but try to pull them over the line on a voluntary basis. i would like to ask the commissioner how he is actually implementing the talks he referred to.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the amendment i have tabled could be interpreted in that way. moreover, when i see the efforts made by some member states to convince people that what the epp has proposed is bad, i think the story of the cannon and the mosquito is true. mr president, what are we talking about here? i'd like to clarify a little. we are talking today about the annual adjustment of regulation 1408/71. this regulation shall be adapted to the changes in social legislation and social security in the member states. the court of justice's case law is taken into account, and it is examined whether the elements required for these adjustments meet the general criteria for mobility and free movement, but also those of 1408. the proposals from the member states are therefore examined in advance. we are also talking about annex 2a, and that is a review of certain specific features. it is examined whether the proposals contain elements which require or not require certain services to be exported. i would like to mention the example of dutch social assistance, which does not have to be exported. in spain there are aid or compensation and mobility benefits which do not need to be exported. we all have that, and there is no difference of opinion. each member state has submitted a proposal for these lists. what i do not understand, however, is that although we have laid down principles in the new coordination regulation, we are still succeeding in getting some member states to get away with things in this regulation that we have said in advance should actually be exportable. mr president, normally i would have left it to the commission to deal with this problem. that is why we as a group have voted in favour of this amendment. but then the legal service came and told us that we as a parliament cannot approve of something that the court cannot accept. we cannot accept a text of law which contains elements which are not legal. mr president, that is when the problem began. what i can't understand is this: why do we allow the finns to export their childcare allowance, the swedes their disabled children's allowance and care, the british a care allowance - on which a petition has also been adopted - while at the same time we ask 22 other member states, which are obliged - and those are the luxembourgers and those are the greeks and those are the spanish - to export such things. mr president, when the legal service said that we should not accept this, i asked why the council accepts it. it is because of unanimity that there are a number of member states which do not comply with the rules. and should we as a parliament agree to that? i wonder if this should not be the last time and i think we should just send a clear and unambiguous signal. that signal must therefore be included in the implementing regulation which we should also have.
today we are discussing the application of beijing + 10 in the european union. turkey is not yet a member of the european union. as rapporteur on women's rights in turkey, i can say that the situation of women's rights is on paper comparable to that of the european member states. however, the practice leaves much to be desired. violence against women, low labour force participation, participation in education and women's political participation remain major concerns. but all this begins with the right to say this, to demonstrate. the 6th of march in istanbul showed how important it is that we still have 8 march, an international women's day. a demonstration marking women's day was violently broken up. turkey wants to be a modern democracy and wants to join the european union, but then it must also show that it is a mature democracy in dealing with demonstrations. the european union also has an important role to play in this respect. the european union must show that it is going to put the situation of women's rights prominently on the negotiating agenda. that it closely monitors progress and takes immediate action in the event of breaches.
the committee on development and cooperation has adopted a report on the implementation of the convention on the rights of the child. mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation, i should first like to thank commissioner mandelson for the words he has just spoken. the various elements he mentioned i can follow very well and also share. trade and development cooperation are closely intertwined. the system of generalised tariff preferences which we are discussing today is a prime example of this. the amount we spend through this system of trade preferences is higher than the total european development cooperation budget. the system was in dire need of revision. it was simply not used enough and its structure was too complex to comply with wto rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, in order to make the system effective, the commission must quickly come up with a revision of the rules of origin, because that is what will determine whether we can actually make it more effective for the countries. it is very important that the benefits be generous and that we do not try to re-introduce protectionism through the back door by excluding all kinds of products, as the commissioner has just said. we support the proposed early entry into force of the new system in the countries affected by the tsunami on 1 april, but we also call for a transitional period for those countries which are not yet ready. it's also a matter of good faith. finally, the relationship between the gsp and the epas, which the european commission is currently negotiating with the acp countries. the commissioner knows that trade agreements are not without controversy. it would be too rapid and too rigorous a trade liberalization. it is therefore essential that the acp countries, and especially the countries which are not among the least developed, should have an alternative if they do not wish to join the epas. the 2008 revision of the sap plus could provide a good alternative. i would advise the commissioner to strike the right note on this point.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. this system, as mentioned earlier, is one of the most important instruments for stimulating economic development in developing countries and thus for a fairer distribution of the world. it provides trade advantages to countries that need it most. in addition, countries that perform well in the areas of human rights, good governance, labour law and sustainable development receive further benefits through the sap plus programme, which is designed to provide additional incentives for governments to work seriously and sustainably towards further stability and development in their countries. it is a review of the existing gsp scheme, and that was necessary. the possibilities offered by this system have so far been little used and efforts have been made to make it simpler, more transparent and more objective. that will not guarantee an increase in the use of the scheme, nor in the additional possibilities. this is why we are calling for a review of the rules of origin and, above all, for adequate technical assistance to help countries to see how they can meet the conditions. the gsp plus should be an extra boost for governments in terms of good governance, respect for human rights and so on, but the commission wants to grant this scheme only to countries that are already complying with it. this will eliminate the incentive for those countries which could comply with it in the next ten years, for the duration of the scheme. that's a missed opportunity. the report therefore advocates that countries which will still be eligible for sap plus in the coming years should also be able to benefit from the additional benefits once they meet the criteria. mr president, our group supports the amended report before us. it is a complex matter and i am glad that we have been able to reach a compromise with the other groups and the various disciplines. i hope that the report will be adopted in this form and that the council and commission will be able to adopt the recommendations. the commission wanted to deal with this report earlier for the benefit of the countries hit by the tsunami disaster. i hope that these countries will also be able to really benefit from this arrangement. good news is the evaluation is finally coming. we've been waiting for this.
it is difficult, mr president, to explain in the midst of this violence that the proposal i made on behalf of the epp group to reject the de rossa report nevertheless acknowledges that there are some good elements in the proposal presented by the european commission. i didn't want to undo those good elements either. the request should rather be seen as a signal to the council of ministers, where 22 countries adhere to the rules as laid down in 1408 and there are 3 member states, the united kingdom, finland and sweden, which cannot agree. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them into account. i think this signal is picked up when there are over 200 people who have agreed to a proposal as rigid as the one i have tabled.
the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons has proved its worth. states to renounce the acquisition of nuclear weapons in exchange for the option of using nuclear technology for peaceful purposes and the commitment of the nuclear-weapon states to a gradual disarmament. in the context of the cold war, the treaty was a great success. it has helped to keep the arms race in check and now provides the framework within which the enemies of the past have reduced their arsenals considerably. recent developments, as my colleagues have already mentioned, have made it clear that an international treaty to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons technology is still necessary. investing in the non-proliferation treaty is still a priority. unfortunately, we must admit that the treaty is under pressure. a recent un report warned that the erosion of the treaty could become irreversible, with a cascade of proliferation as a result. the spring review conference should therefore be used primarily to reaffirm the crucial role of the non-proliferation treaty, including the objective of ultimate comprehensive nuclear disarmament. in this context, the european union, as the defender of the international legal order, has a special responsibility to ensure compliance with the convention. this means that states that evade the treaty must be dealt with more harshly. the developments in iran and north korea are of course crucial in this respect. it also means that the eu must work to close remaining gaps in the treaty. for example, the test ban, the ban on nuclear tests, has still not been signed by all the parties, particularly the united states, and the united states is also continuing to develop nuclear weapons for use on the battlefield. these are all issues which, of course, undermine the credibility of this important treaty. developments since the last review conference have also made it clear that the convention must meet new challenges. the emergence of regional arms races in which countries seek to obtain nuclear weapons technology is a great danger. we cannot therefore dissociate the non-proliferation treaty from the improvement of regional security structures in the middle east and south and east asia. finally, and this is a new threat, there is the danger that nuclear technology, or even nuclear material, could be seized by what we call 'non-state actors', in other words terrorist organisations, which could, for example, use a 'dirty' bomb to wreak havoc. we must recognize that the existing agreements to prevent the loss or concealment of nuclear material do not provide adequate guarantees. that is why we are also calling for the european union to pay particular attention to this point in the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow. we cannot leave that to the united states alone.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: this is indicated both by president assad's speech to parliament last saturday and by his meetings yesterday with his lebanese counterpart, mr lahud. damascus is not yet covered by security council resolution 1559. this resolution unequivocally calls for the complete and immediate withdrawal of syrian troops from lebanese territory. the syrian leader, ominously, did not say a word at the end of last week about the influential presence of his intelligence services on lebanese territory. apparently, those intelligence services outside of the syrian troop deployments are inside lebanese territory. that's consistent with the recent israeli observation that syria is currently busy strengthening its covert presence in the land of the cedar. the israeli foreign minister officially informed the secretary-general of the united nations of this yesterday. damascus is also flagrantly ignoring resolution 1559 in another way. the resolution also calls for the dismantling of all militias in lebanon. that would involve the dismantling of the shiite terror movement hezbollah, the pawn of both syria and iran against the jewish state. this should also include the forced departure of the dozens of iranian revolutionary guard officers who train hezbollah and palestinian terrorist groups within lebanon's borders. the council and the commission, given the gravity of the situation in lebanon, i hope that you will be a determined game-changer for those forces in syria, lebanon and iran who do not want to know of a full-fledged lebanese state sovereignty, nor are they served by any political comparison between israel and its nearest arab neighbours. the sinister game of damascus, tehran and their lebanese satellites must be stopped. it is up to you, the council and the commission, to make a tangible contribution to this. for example, start by putting hezbollah on the european list of terrorist organizations.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i admit it is a little early to say that a wave of democracy is sweeping the middle east, but nevertheless. successful elections in iraq, in the palestinian territories, local elections in saudi arabia, less rigged presidential elections in egypt, and at the top of the heap a lebanese government that has to step down because the people want it to. a population that openly used the same means as the ukrainian population in kiev to express its discontent. the cedar revolution was orange, too. for the first time, there is good news from the region, because it is good news that syria is finally withdrawing its troops from lebanon. it would be even better if that were to happen a little sooner and it would be even better if hezbollah gave up its armed resistance to the state of israel and put its energies into strengthening lebanese democracy by peaceful means. what europe can do, apart from expressing its appreciation for the courage shown by the lebanese people, is not to conclude an association agreement with syria until the withdrawal is completed and until the support to hezbollah is ended.
president, this is a moment of historic hope for the middle east. a lot of people are bravely reaching for a better time. palestinians who are tackling people who are attacking israeli citizens, israelis who are giving large areas back to the palestinians as the first step towards two states, but especially also the lebanese, who are fighting in the streets for a better time without syrian interference. these brave people and all the peace-loving people of the middle east deserve our support. the greatest danger to the peace process now is posed by the hezbollah organization. we in europe have a naive, unbelieving attitude towards hezbollah. we make a distinction between the military hezbollah and the political hezbollah. this distinction is not realistic, because there is one leadership and mr nasrallah is the leader of both branches. he himself says there is no difference, and his first subordinate recently said on television, and i quote, "we believe that political activity is integrated into military operations because they are an inseparable part of political activity". and then there are those people in the lebanese parliament, who some of them want to do business with in this room, and their leader, hussein hay hassan, who himself says: "hezbollah is an organization in which all the fighters are simultaneously politicians and military. the way some in the west view our organization is not right". president, the people of hezbollah are saying this themselves. it is high time that we dared to send a clear signal to an organization with ties to syria and iran, which attacks innocent civilians and which expresses itself unequivocally against the peace process and against the departure of syria from lebanon. two weeks ago the council representative said: "we are keeping an eye on hezbollah. if they start behaving badly, we'll consider additional measures". now, if we look at what's happening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind. there are many fine words spoken about the protesters here, but what these brave people need now is not fine words but clear action and clear decisions. the time has come to tell the truth. hezbollah is a terrorist organisation and should be on the european list of terrorist organisations. the courageous people of the middle east deserve that we finally have the courage to make this clear statement.
mr president, first of all i would like to make a comment on the process. i must say that it disturbs me very much to hear that it is being negotiated with certain member states behind the backs of the european parliament or that, in the case of software, parliament's position is simply ignored. secondly, the content. there was a lot of talk about the lisbon strategy and the need to innovate and boost the european services market. i am one of the supporters of the services directive and of course we need clarification and improvement on a few points, but on the basis of facts and not on the basis of media reports, which are full of false information, or gossip with chirac, schröder and others. as for the software: the quality of legislation must not be subordinated to a power struggle between the institutions. we need innovation and it must not be stifled by bad legislation. in short, mr mccreevy, we must do more than merely pay lip service to the lisbon strategy and respect the democratic process and the elected representatives of europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i am replacing my colleague, mr hammerstein mintz, who is ill. i wish to begin by congratulating mr wieland for his good work as rapporteur for the annual report on the committee of petitions. this report is the first for this parliament and because of the new members it provides parliament with extra information about the committee. this committee is the most direct link between voters and parliament. it is like an ongoing dialogue, in which citizens should feel that they are being taken seriously and can have confidence in the eu. in fact petitions are a strong tool for democracy. mr wieland’s report reflects the serious need to develop the ability and capacity of the committee to deal with situations in which cooperation with the commission does not work and/or the commission does not take appropriate action. it must be stressed that, in developing the ability of the committee on petitions to deal with those situations, the committee will need the support of parliament as a whole. against that background, mr hammerstein mintz tabled a few amendments to the report by mr wieland, which he as rapporteur and the committee as a whole unanimously supported. that is very important. they point out, firstly, that under the nice treaty, parliament has the right to bring action against the commission, for example, on the grounds of lack of competence; infringement of essential procedural requirements; infringement of the ec treaty and of any rule of law relating to its application; and misuse of powers, irrespective of whether parliament’s prerogatives are concerned. thus the committee is also putting forward for parliament’s approval a statement that it is considered legitimate for parliament to exercise its powers under article 230 of the ec treaty if this is necessary in order to put an end to a serious infringement of community law that has been reviewed in the examination of a petition, and where a significant difference of interpretation persists – in spite of efforts to resolve it – between parliament on the one hand and the commission on the other, as regards the actions required by community law for the protection of citizens’ rights in the case concerned.
the 7th and 8th meetings of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly took place in addis ababa and the hague respectively last year. both were good meetings and as a dutchman it was of course an added pleasure that the meeting in the hague had gone so well. i would like to congratulate all those who have worked so hard to achieve this. mr president, i would like to draw your attention to a few points. first of all, the relations with zimbabwe. we have again succeeded in keeping the blacklisted representatives of zimbabwe out of the hague meeting. in zimbabwe, human rights are being grossly violated and freedom of expression, association and assembly is being increasingly restricted. that's in the report, too. in europe we have a list of people who are responsible for these abuses and we have agreed that these people should not be allowed to participate in the meetings held in the eu. however, zimbabwe has sent representatives from time to time who are on this list. it is good that we have once again succeeded in preventing their participation in the ppv. we must maintain our position to increase the pressure on zimbabwe. i would also like to thank the acp delegation for their support in this matter. then the resolution on darfur. the situation in sudan is terrible. it is the longest running conflict in africa and if the information is correct, two million people have been killed and four million people have been displaced. doctors without borders has recently published a report on international women's day to raise the issue of rape and violence against women. it happens, and it's bad enough, in all the war zones, but nowhere on the scale of sudan. these and other abuses were strongly condemned in the resolution. it is mainly thanks to our colleague hybášková that we were able to adopt the resolution without a single vote against, which is very special with so many african countries also involved. i'd like to compliment her on that. mr president, the acp is a special delegation in the european parliament because it is a joint assembly whose aim is to strengthen democracy, promote good governance and protect human rights. moreover, its ability to tackle difficult issues and to engage in political dialogue in a positive manner has increased in recent years. its value has been proved once again. i would like to congratulate mr bowis on his report. i look forward to the next meeting in mali.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the figures are higher than half a year's salary for romanian women. if it is true, it is contrary to the european directive on the quality and safety of tissues and cells, as the commissioner has already said. the directive only allows for reimbursement of costs and compensation for any inconvenience. the amounts mentioned would be considerably higher than these. i sent out a press release on this subject last thursday and on monday i found here in my office an e-mail from a romanian embassy and a message from the british government. romania has said, and i quote: "the global art clinic which was performing illegal - note illegal - fertilization and collection of egg cells was shut down by the government. the situation is currently being investigated by the prosecutor's office". the british government reports that their organisation responsible for this, the hfea, has investigated everything and has found no evidence that anything is wrong there. the ban that was in place during the investigation has been lifted and the organisation is now reporting an increase in applications for import of ova. egg donation is not without risks and women must sign a statement that they are aware of it. why would women with such high risk donate eggs if they're not getting paid for it? when you read the website of global art clinic, you're in for a surprise. it's a mail order company for babies. you can fly in sperm that will fertilize an egg from a romanian woman. you can choose your age, your education, your height, your hair color, and so on. the embryo is then sent by courier to the prospective parents for implantation. i have the following questions to the commission. firstly, the reports from romania and the united kingdom are contradictory. does the commission know what is happening there, on what scale, for what price, and whether what is happening is contrary to european regulations? secondly, the global art clinic website shows that it does business primarily with the us, israel and the uk. can the commission ascertain whether there are also customers from other eu member states, or candidate countries, and whether similar activities are carried out in other candidate countries against payment? thirdly, the directive on the use of human tissues and cells must be transposed into national law by april 2006. what action is the commission taking to ensure that the compensation does not exceed the reimbursement of costs incurred and any compensation for inconvenience? fourthly, can the commission draw up a list of the relevant regulations, including amounts, in the various member states and candidate countries?
we are discussing this subject here today, mr president, partly because the european union is providing funds for research into embryonic stem cells. i have expressed my surprise here in this house before, because this research is banned in a number of member states and is not compatible with the resolution adopted today in the united nations general assembly against all forms of human cloning. in addition, there is the commercial exploitation of women who, lured by large payments, donate eggs without knowing exactly what medical risks they are exposing themselves to. it is clear to me that the trade in eggs and human embryos must be stopped as soon as possible. the commission would also do well to examine whether it is not itself partly responsible for this, because it is using european funds to encourage research which is punishable by law in some member states. it seems to me that the principle of subsidiarity is being ignored here, because there is no problem here that cannot be solved within the member states themselves. commissioner, can you tell me what you think about this trade and can you promise me that research funding will only take place if this research is allowed in all the member states of the union? are you prepared to abide by the resolution adopted today by the united nations general assembly calling for action to prevent the exploitation of women?
the next spring summit, mr president, will be overshadowed by what the referendums on the european constitution may bring in the coming months. that is not conducive to sound decision-making on economic reforms. the decision-making at the forthcoming summit is also fuelled by fears of a deterioration in the welfare state. this has become clear since the autumn summit when the wim kok report was discussed here. i would like to call for a different approach to economic reform. is it socially acceptable that people over the age of 58 should no longer be allowed to participate in the labour market? is it social to saddle the young people of today with the burdens of our system which has become unaffordable, when they themselves can never benefit from it? i therefore call on the commission to work with the member states on the necessary structural reforms. growth is needed to maintain europe's social model. at the same time, the model needs to be reformed. anyone who still claims that structural reforms are not necessary is a dangerous demagogue.
mr president, a great deal has been said in this debate on the lisbon strategy, and i would therefore like to limit myself to three points. first of all: the lisbon strategy must become the next great success of the european union after the euro, enlargement and the constitution. we have no choice. but the condition is that we give the citizen the confidence and the space to develop new initiatives and to take on new challenges. my neighbour in rijswijk is perfectly capable of making good decisions about his future and does not need to be taken by the hand by the dutch authorities, and certainly not by the european union. that brings me to my second point. we should be more critical of the role of the public sector in the context of the lisbon strategy. the question arises whether the government should be the problem solver or whether it is sometimes the problem itself. of course, the government must keep an eye on the situation and impose certain conditions, but far too often we see that the government, instead of encouraging new initiatives, is blocking them. i therefore believe that deregulation, reduction of administrative burdens and de-bureaucratisation must be at the heart of the lisbon strategy if we are to achieve the much needed strengthening of europe's competitiveness. thirdly: i fully agree with the colleagues who believe that europe can be proud of its unique european model, but we must also realise that this social model can only be maintained if we generate economic growth again. my colleagues on the left too often perpetuate the myth that social policy and economic growth are at odds. whether it is the lisbon strategy or the services directive. they repeatedly suggest a false contradiction between a free, innovative, dynamic knowledge economy and social policy. i therefore find the socialist group's abstention from voting in the parliamentary coordination group last week incomprehensible. the other groups had really tried to reach a compromise that was broadly acceptable. i am therefore pleased that the spokesmen of that group are now saying that the text before us deserves broad support. it makes last week's abstention all the more mysterious, but let's keep it at a progressive understanding. mr president, there is no better social policy than one which creates more and better jobs and creates space for entrepreneurship. we shall see whether there is a majority to support this policy of the european commission. if so, that is a welcome development.
the lisbon challenge is the most important project for the coming years. the project will only succeed if all the parties involved - governments, parliaments, social partners - are willing to work together at european, national and regional level. if we are to achieve that unity of cooperation, but also that commitment, the main obstacle to success has already been overcome. i am happy to entrust you, mr barroso, with the difficult but also central role of being the centre of this process. when we look at the lisbon objective, a contradiction is created here which i feel is nonsensical. there can be no separation between the eu's competitiveness, social policy and the environment, because without growth we cannot meet our environmental obligations either. growth creates more jobs, jobs, incomes and prosperity for citizens. more people in work is the best guarantee for the financiability of social security and for meeting the rising cost of health care, as well as reform of affordable and sustainable pensions. the economic, ecological and social policies are therefore inseparable. the commissioner verheugen calls for attention to be paid to new initiatives, better and simpler legislation, new industrial policies and more support for innovation. however, there is one thing i miss about these initiatives, and that is retraining, retraining and retraining. without continuous education of the available workforce, we cannot get people who are currently marginalized - whether they are women, minorities or people with disabilities - into work. so if we want to achieve that europe of excellence, then the same applies here: not words, but actions.
i would also like to say a few words about the stability and growth pact, mr president, because i regret that the ecofin council did not reach agreement on it earlier this week. i hope that mr juncker, who will be present both at the extra ecofin meeting and at the summit, will be able to continue his work. i have full confidence in that too. i am sorry to see that the reform of the pact is being made into a matter for the president. i am afraid that this will lead to a kind of ordinary cow trade between member states, and particularly large member states, as we have seen too often. it is time for our leaders to show real vision and leadership. my group has already stated many times that it is in favour of reforming the pact to achieve growth without endangering the stability of the euro. i think it is therefore good that a qualitative assessment of the expenditure made by member states in their budgets is made. this morning we also noted this in the discussion on the lisbon strategy. europe is not investing enough in training and research to become the competitive knowledge economy we would like to be. it should not be that the pact prevents us from doing so. in business, an entrepreneur would disqualify himself if he did not make such investments in the future. but i tell you this: in the business sector, investments are not depreciated in one year. why do we do that in the systematics of the pact? why should we not also apply a longer depreciation period to the lisbon investments? that would be a substantive reform that would create space without jeopardizing discipline. another change that must take place is that there will be more european thinking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it seems that the leaders at the top are primarily concerned with creating a catalogue of excuses that they can use to get out of the discipline and use for all sorts of policies. my group supports a strong role for the commission and believes that the rules of the game and the assessments should be made jointly, from a european perspective.
i agree with the president that scientific research is both useful and necessary. however, the question is whether the approach in the locatelli report is the most effective way to a more innovative europe. firstly, how effective can action at european level be if the member states have the competence in these areas. the report proposes that activities in the member states be co-financed by european union funds. for example, eu funding for students, research buildings and facilities, and communicating with citizens about the importance of science. the member states are much more effective in dealing with these issues. european money will therefore be better used for this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. secondly, i find that the commission's communication on guidelines for research policy lacks a strategic statement on research which is punishable by law in the member states. i am not saying that we should support such research with community funds. i am thinking of research involving the destruction of human embryos. if community funding is allocated to such controversial research, the result is that member states do not benefit equally from european research initiatives. can the commissioner comment on this? in conclusion, the ambition of the european institutions to establish themselves in the field of research does not necessarily lead to more and better research in europe.
president. - i should like to thank our rapporteur, mrs pia elda locatelli, for her report. it has produced an excellent and interesting report. research in the seventh framework programme is important to us, especially in the context of the lisbon strategy. a good link between research centres and industry is essential. i would like to make three points. firstly, science should be autonomous, but that is not the same as being free of obligation. scientific priorities are not a hobby of scientists, but must be question-driven. social problems should be a guiding principle for the public research agenda and on that point i entirely agree with mr hammerstein. the second point is the unnecessary bureaucracy, which has been mentioned before. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for small businesses and small institutions in particular, filling out the paperwork and answering the questions is a near-impossible task. we therefore call for a two-stage procedure consisting of a short description of the research project followed by a screening, so that those taking part in the second round can have a reasonable degree of assurance that their proposal will be honoured. third, join forces. european research funding remains only a fraction of national budgets. article 169 provides an opportunity to join forces. in the field of clinical trials for developmental diseases, experience has already been gained. we can use this experience to carry out joint research on the introduction of a low-carbon economy, on hydrogen cells, on improving energy efficiency and all that sort of thing. the social demand is also met by a combination of forces, and we must work towards that.
mr president, it is quite strange that this debate concerns the internet and the retention of data on the internet, and yet it is not being broadcast as normal on parliament’s website. i should like to complain about that.
mr president, tonight we shall be comfortably reminiscing about the previous commission and its promises. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in it he even quoted benjamin franklin's famous quote: "they who would give up an essential liberty for temporary security, deserve neither liberty nor security". today we want to know what exactly is happening to the data of our citizens. the transfer of sensitive data, such as on religion or the health of citizens, was particularly controversial in the previous debates. and bolkestein promised that "pending the installation of filters by airlines, the united states should filter them and then delete them all together". so the united states gets the data, but they're not allowed to look at it. has the commission checked whether the united states has done so or do you simply believe them on the basis of president bush's blue or brown eyes? what about the development of those airline filter systems? the commission last year felt that the whole european parliament lawsuit was actually unnecessary, because they could get the push system off the ground in a few months, probably in six months. how's it going? the interest of the united states in the personal data of our citizens cannot be separated from their efforts to create a global computer surveillance system. the united states wants to profile as many citizens as possible worldwide based on their travel behavior and credit card purchases. the commission replied on 11 march 2004 that it was prepared to cooperate in the development of this capps ii system under certain conditions and that the us authorities were not currently conducting any tests on our passenger data. i ask the european commission whether, a year later, we are perhaps at the stage where we are testing our passenger data? did you check that? what about the capps ii system or perhaps its successor? is the commission now working with the united states on this matter? i would like a precise answer on this.
president, commissioner frattini, i am glad to hear that this new commission is going to correct some of the mistakes of the previous commission. this is important because in my country, the netherlands, a referendum on the constitution will be held in a few months' time. i would like to be able to look the rather sceptical dutch citizen in the eye and say that the constitution, the fundamental rights and the protection of personal data are really serious and not just a matter of words. first of all, let me turn to the general question of the protection of personal data. you said you personally opposed the four-country proposal. i'd like to hear what that means in institutional terms. then there is the p&r report, on which my predecessor, johanna boogerd, worked very hard. will the joint review you were just talking about also mention how many attacks have been prevented and how many criminals have been caught? after all, that's what it was all about. secondly, you have said that information is now being provided to travellers, but what about the obligation for travellers to give explicit consent to the transfer of their data? finally, i would like to know what the commission has done so far to introduce the push system.
mr. president, mr. frattini, always good to see you. first the procedure, then the content. the procedure is extremely vague. we are being asked as the european parliament to assess a proposal which does not yet formally exist. the council has indeed made a proposal on data retention of traffic data, but this is still being worked on and the final proposal is not clear. the first pillar has already been agreed once to prohibit data retention, and it is obvious that some governments are proposing this only because they cannot get it through their national parliaments. the council is thus exploiting the democratic vacuum in the european union, because, as you know, the european parliament can only give its opinion on this matter. i just heard you say you agree with us. at least that's what i gather from your words. i would like to make it very clear again, however, that the european union is not designed to launder money for failed national proposals. now for the content. it is for the european parliament to assess the proportionality of the final proposal. the proportionality of this restriction of the secrecy of communications must be assessed on the basis of the necessity of that restriction. how can we judge the proportionality of a proposal if its content is not yet clear and the proof of its necessity has never been provided? you have just said that if the european commission were to submit a proposal on this, you would consider the economic consequences of such a proposal. that's a little too fast for me, to be honest. i'd like to see the evidence for such a proposal first. in other words: why is it necessary? the evidence for that has never been provided. a dutch study has shown the opposite. the dutch government kept this investigation secret, but eventually had to bring it to light because of the law on the transparency of government. now, a general comment on the fight against terrorism. i feel, as i speak here, not really comfortable, because i feel like i'm stopping the fight against terror. i think it is an important battle and i think it is scandalous that the european council is putting us as a parliament in a position where we have to put the brakes on proposals which are intended to combat terrorism. this is an abuse of our position. i would like to speak about what we should coordinate at european level and i would like to do so in a democratic way.
president. - i think that the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i do not agree with the main points of the resolution and i support the commission's proposals in principle. it starts with the c-dumping, the c-sugar. this dumping, which costs us 800 million euros a year, is a dumping which is totally contrary to what is required in the world trade agreements. we will be forced to stop immediately and we must not think we can put up with it for a few more years. the commission proposal still maintains a world price, or a market price in europe twice the world price. today, it is three times the world market price. i think that everyone who talks about free liberalization, and it should be free, has not looked at the commission's proposal very carefully. i think the proposal is understandable, but there are a number of points where it could be improved. i am particularly interested in the action plan for the poor countries. here, of course, some of these countries must invest in industries to become more competitive. i do not think it is realistic to take the money from the edf. the money we are saving in this sector of agriculture could be used for that - not only for the european agricultural sector but also for the acp countries. then something about the quotas. trade is, of course, the best way to help countries. at present, the ldcs are allowed to go from 120,000 tonnes to 209,000 tonnes. what is the objection to doubling this 1% of the european market? that would be a very good compensation for the countries concerned in the period up to 2009 and it could really mean that they are getting something. commissioner, you have rightly said: "let's stay away from everything but arms" a. let us not let this parliament become the embarrassment of everything but arms and sugar. that would remove the cornerstone of a fair world trade policy and it would mean that we would fail in doha. that can't happen. i wholeheartedly support the proposals and hope that you will improve and strengthen them.
mr president, it was clear that when commissioner fischler made his three proposals about a year ago, only one was reasonable. we must change the sugar market, there is no escaping that. the consequences for many parts of europe will be serious, there is no denying that. the future price of sugar in europe will be essential to the whole sugar policy. the commission believes that it can control this price by introducing a reference price. the commission would like to explain this again, because up to now we have always had an intervention price for the main products. how can the reference price really guarantee a price on the european markets? then the least developed countries and the "everything but arms" initiative. the commission maintains, and this also has to do with the future price, that a quota system for those countries could not be feasible. how confident is the commission in this after the experience it has already gained in the balkans? we also had unlimited sugar imports there before. the commission was then forced to reverse its course and introduce a quota system. why should this not apply to the mol countries? i agree with many that the commission should pay more attention to the peripheral regions. i would like to say a few words about mr van den berg's amendments. i think it is an extremely bad idea that the compensation for the least developed countries should be paid from the agricultural budget. development aid is not just for farmers, it is for all sectors of society.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner on her participation in the debate. you can have different opinions on the course and the way in which reform is being carried out, but i very much appreciate that. i also congratulate mr fruteau and mr dole, who have done a very good job and have tabled a resolution that sounds like a bell. why is the resolution so good? the resolution at any rate shows an understanding of the need for reforms and of the many social aspects involved. the resolution also shows that pure liberalisation in agricultural policy can sometimes backfire and that it is better to reach good agreements at world level. i am therefore surprised that there are still many in this debate who believe that liberalization of world food trade is the solution to all the ills of development cooperation and poverty reduction. sometimes you wonder where that holy faith comes from. over the past decade, global trade in food has been further liberalised, with europe now accounting for 85% of exports from africa to the developed world. and what's the balance? hunger and poverty have increased, 40% of the world's children are hungry and european consumers have anything but lower prices. it will not surprise you, mr president, that i have serious objections to the amendments, including those tabled by my good dutch colleague, mr van den berg. i sometimes wonder, and i think it is good to stress this in the debate, how it is that he wants complete freedom first and thinks that the solution will come from the chaos in the world food market. i don't believe in that. i believe in agreements, worldwide and in europe, to bring about responsible reform. his idea of using the agricultural budget for development aid is, in my view, nothing more than shopping with someone else's purse. mr president, no one can go a day without eating, and i hope that this will be the guiding principle for the further debate on sugar reform later this year.
in writing. despite its opposition to the resolution on the world conference on women, the christian union-sgp is by no means opposed to the normal treatment of women in this society. the fight against abuse, circumcision, trafficking in women, marriage-breaking, and honour-bending is wholeheartedly supported. equal access to good education and good health care is also important for everyone. however, some ideas cannot be supported. the participation of women in the labour market is not rejected, but the imposition of a numerical distribution of labour does not reflect reality. capacity and suitability are the criteria for selecting candidates for a post. sex is less relevant. there must be freedom of choice for both the individual and the organisation. it is up to individuals and organisations to make their own choices regarding their personal sphere of life, internal structure and external representation, as long as no improper means or methods are used. finally, extreme caution should be exercised in situations involving medical ethics. man is not the last link in an evolutionary process, but is a creature given life by his creator. he needs to deal with that responsibly. with his own and with others' as well as with existing and unborn life.
in writing. today parliament is voting on the organization of the sugar market, sugar subsidies and market access for the least developed countries. the debate between agriculture and development cooperation has not dealt with two aspects sufficiently. sugar and public health. diabetes has become the number one disease of the population. a disease with debilitating symptoms and consequences. it is a very costly disease, socially and economically. sugar consumption is also a major contributor to obesity. it's also a growing public health problem. the eu has rightly announced that it will take up the fight against obesity and diabetes in cooperation with the who. sugar consumption should be reduced and the decline in fruit and vegetable consumption reversed. in this context, it is inconceivable that parliament should be advocating low sugar prices and that no subsidy should be available for fruit and vegetables. if we want to subsidize agriculture and keep prices down, let's do it for healthy products. the second. lisbon, please. the eu wants to be the most dynamic and innovative economy in the world within five years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. parliament has spoken very highly of this this week. it is difficult to see how the sugar subsidies are contributing to the lisbon objectives. europe must grant full market access to farmers from developing countries. i wholeheartedly support the amendments to this effect. of course, there must be a good system for european sugar farmers and workers in the sugar sector, but the continued support for an unhealthy product and a poorly innovative sector is inconsistent. we have to stop this madness as soon as possible. that's reason enough to vote against the motion.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0310/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in cambodia. after the french occupation of the much larger colony then called indochina was ended, especially as a result of the war of independence in what is now vietnam, the americans, russians, and chinese were ready to add the smaller new states of cambodia and laos to their sphere of influence. each of these great powers tried to arm its own satellite movements and to bring them to power with military support, in order to eliminate all other forces once and for all. in a sharp response to an irresponsible american intervention, power was seized by the khmer rouge, a movement that had the illusion that the destruction of the cities and the intellectuals would bring great progress for the poor peasant population. i would remind you that the united nations recognized that murderous reign of terror and not the vietnamese-backed insurgents who put an end to it. the liberators of that time still have a very large following among the people today, but they still feel mistrusted by the outside world. the poison of the past has made normal coalition governments and the normal functioning of parliamentary democracy in cambodia still virtually impossible. the political parties deny each other the right to exist and would rather destroy each other forever. it is fitting that opposition parliamentarians are treated as enemies of the state and imprisoned. the rich western countries have made a major contribution to that toxic climate in the past. we have a moral duty to help the cambodians to free themselves from it. criticism and condemnation are badly needed, but also the lesson that the outside world has shown the cambodians in the past that they can do better.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in cambodia. we have always assumed that cambodia would make slow but steady progress towards democracy, but of course patience is running out. the situation in cambodia has deteriorated dramatically in the last year, with the latest low point being the incitement against three opposition members, including the brave sam rainsey who was here two weeks ago. it was good to see him here, but it would have been better if he had not been here and could simply have played his opposition role in phnom penh. you do not have to take my word for it, because in the next few days the un envoy for cambodia, peter leuprecht, will be presenting his findings to the united nations. his conclusion is downright sad. in his four years as an envoy, little progress has been made. president, the european union, the commission and the member states have offered a total of eur 1 billion in aid, with the phnom penh office, election observation missions, financial support for demining operations, and so on. should we not conclude that eu policy has simply failed? we must have the courage to say so. the time for compromise is over as far as i'm concerned. if the cambodian government does not respect the basic principles of the democratic rule of law, such as transparency and accountability, we must suspend our support. in any case, a dramatic reorientation of our aid is necessary.
when the european parliament voted on the budget, it also voted on the proposal to allocate one and a half million euros for the youth world event and the parliament decided not to do so. now i hear that the european commission is planning to grant that amount anyway. i wrote you a letter about it. i would like you to ask the commission whether that is the case, what criteria it is applying and why the commission is not following the decision of the european parliament.
question no 7 by mr van miert (h-0826/97) subject: the commission's proposal to introduce a system of electronic data-processing for the purpose of the collection of personal data that's a long way to go. this is a typical example of legislation which is mainly intended to make politicians feel good, to show that they can sometimes act decisively. whether it's effective is still in doubt. could the many millions involved not be better spent on targeted detection? before i even consider agreeing to this, i would like to see the council argue why mass storage is necessary, proportionate and effective. i challenge the council to deal with this matter with facts and without empty rhetoric. mr president, my group is also very concerned about the procedure, as mr alvaro has already said. the council is aware that the european parliament has a higher priority than governments for civil rights and the effective fight against crime. that is why governments are so eager to pass legislation without parliament's involvement. the commission and the legal services consider that this is a first pillar matter, and therefore one which falls within the competence of the european parliament. the commission has already said that it will come up with its own proposal, but the council is simply sitting on the proposal from those four member states. my question is therefore how this fits in with the governments' position on the constitution. it says that the european parliament will also become a co-legislator for the third pillar. governments say they want this democratic control very much, but they are making themselves utterly unbelievable if they now try to evade control by quickly pushing through something that will have major consequences for the citizens and for hundreds of internet and telecom companies. will the council therefore decide to wait for the european commission's proposal or will we, as the european parliament, have to go back to the court of justice to force democracy on the member states through the legal system?
mr president, there has been a lot of talk about the right balance of security and civil liberties, but let us see how it works in practice. last year, an agreement was adopted, against the will of the european parliament, giving the united states access to passenger name records. just last saturday, a klm flight from amsterdam to mexico flying over the united states was denied access to us airspace and sent back to the netherlands. why? because the us had found that there were two passengers on board who were on a us list of potential terrorists. how did the united states get that data? how did they get those names? the agreement on passenger name records applies only to flights from and to the united states, not flights crossing us airspace. the united states was therefore clearly breaking the rules and i would like to hear what action the commission is going to take. secondly, i very much welcome the words of mr frattini, who said that we should promote and not just protect fundamental rights, and i would like to add that we should promote values and not just make legislation. i would like mr frattini to inform us of the state of play regarding the creation of the working group on fundamental rights promised to us by mr barroso. i have not heard anything about it. i hope that this working group will look in particular at proposals to end discrimination against gay and lesbian people. for example, how about the recognition of married same-sex couples? how about tackling homophobia, which is on the rise? how about encouraging those member states that have so far failed to recognise or compensate gay victims of the nazi regime? i hope the commission will answer these questions.
i am very proud that we are finally dealing today with this report on minimum standards in criminal procedure which should apply throughout the european union. my group voted against the european arrest warrant in 2001, partly because it did not provide for the rights of the accused, who would be transferred so much more easily to other eu countries under the new system. we can end the political struggle of that time today, because we are at least united in our view that the procedural rights of suspects are a necessary complement to the european arrest warrant. there have been many colleagues who have been very active in this subject and i shall have to thank antonio costa from afar for his proposals. i would also like to thank all the other members for their good cooperation. the commission has done a very good job, mr president, and that has made my job easier. she has collected many ideas through a green paper and has already consulted people. the previous chairman of the committee on civil liberties, mr hernandez mollar, also wrote a positive report at that time. i have taken his comments as a basis in my report. criminals do not respect national borders and so the search must also be carried out across borders. but the search must also guarantee the rule of law throughout europe. this report is not just about the rights of suspects, it is also about effective crime prevention. if member states do not trust each other, they will not be inclined to extradite their own nationals easily. we saw it for example with the british and dutch aircraft spotters who were arrested in greece. you remember that from a few years ago. it then led to a lot of protest among dutch and british politicians and citizens. however, in the same december the european arrest warrant was again adopted by the same politicians, which meant that all aircraft spotters would henceforth be extradited to greece. the question is whether such a transfer will actually take place, given the outcry against it. i therefore believe that effective crime prevention requires real trust between member states and trust requires clear agreements on the rights of suspects. of course, many rights are already covered by the echr, as the european commissioner has said. however, they are regulated as legal principles which are interpreted differently in the various member states. the european commission's proposal is much more specific. the rights will also be more visible and easier to enforce. the european court of human rights has therefore been reduced in size, and this is a welcome additional benefit. there are also rights added. the commission's proposal gives a defendant, as the european commissioner has said, the right to legal aid throughout the criminal proceedings and the right to an interpreter and a translator. the authorities are obliged to inform suspects of their rights. i agree with the general outline of the european commission's proposal, but it is clear that this is a first step and that additional framework decisions are needed, for example on admissibility of evidence, on bail and on methods of investigation. i hope the european commissioner will put a stop to this. i am also glad that the committee on civil liberties has decided that a number of points in the commission's proposal should be clarified. it now provides that no one may be without a lawyer for more than 24 hours, that no hearing may take place if a defendant has not yet obtained legal aid, and that there is an independent body through which a client can complain about his or her lawyer. for the rest, it is important that not only governments but also lawyers and organisations concerned are asked to evaluate compliance and that this is then published, because only transparency will really further promote trust. i would like to say a final word on recital 8, because i know that this is a crucial paragraph for many members. there seem to be a few member states which want to retain the option of not applying these very basic rights of suspects to citizens suspected of serious and complex forms of crime including terrorism. that is what worries me, at least as a green. as rapporteur i would like to promote a compromise, but personally i really believe that member states will be much less inclined to extradite people to other eu member states if they fear that minimum rights, minimum standards are not being respected. i also believe that it is a matter of principle that minimum standards should by definition apply to everyone. when mr hernandez mollar, a leading christian democrat, was rapporteur on this subject, he never, on any occasion, advocated exceptions to the minimum standards. the question now is whether the report should be adopted at all if this exception is not broad enough. i hope that we can still come to an agreement tomorrow when we vote, because i am convinced that the rights of our citizens deserve support throughout this parliament.
the proposal for a framework decision is a follow-up to the green paper on procedural safeguards for suspects in criminal cases throughout the european union, which was presented in 2003. the commissioner said that the proposal aims to eliminate the discrepancies between the procedural safeguards available to suspects in the member states. there are undoubtedly many advantages to this proposal. i can briefly mention a few. it cannot be denied that this framework decision, by codifying minimum standards, can and will make a useful contribution to the level of legal protection within the european union. the rapporteur, mrs buitenweg, has already spoken about this. secondly, it cannot be denied that this framework decision can have a positive effect on mutual trust in each other's criminal justice systems. the latter is all the more important now that we have such a large and enlarged european union. the framework decision is also less far-reaching and therefore more realistic than the green paper, and it is good that the framework decision once again expresses the protective function of criminal law. but, mr president, there are also questions, questions about subsidiarity, because it is doubtful. the treaty on european union, unlike the harmonisation of substantive criminal law, does not contain an explicit legal basis for the harmonisation of criminal procedure. the proposal also concerns basic standards which are already enshrined in the echr. the ppe group is therefore in favour of this proposal, but not naively, in other words positively critical. we are disappointed that this proposal, with all its obvious advantages, is going to lead to a great deal of additional bureaucracy. the netherlands, my own country, has this number. the commission proposal will cost at least some 40 million euro per year for translation, storage of video and evaluation of the new system. the vote in the commission has added many additional aspects, which will increase the amount for the small netherlands and therefore also for other member states. i would like to say on behalf of the epp: the benefits outweigh the additional costs, because suspects must be well protected everywhere. but the commission has made it very clear that this far-reaching proposal must not affect the national legislation of various member states against terrorism. that is why we found mrs buitenweg's amendment to delete the report unacceptable in this respect. it then came up with a compromise, a first compromise, under amendment no 4: 'subject to the fact that they do not alter the substance of the provisions of this framework decision and are in conformity with the echr and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, member states may adapt those provisions ...'. but even then, several member states in the european union, including spain, france and the united kingdom, will have problems with their current fight against terrorism. i therefore conclude, mr president, with the good compromise i reached with the rapporteur under no 51. it refers to the rights of the echr and that is fine. i would call on everyone in this house to support amendment no 51 and not amendment no 4 because of the broad support for the report, because i am looking not only at that broad support but also at the socialists, the socialist government in spain and in england. do not get your own member states into trouble! if amendment no 51 succeeds and amendment no 4 fails, the ppe-de group will support the report by a large majority. otherwise, we regret that this report is being misused to jeopardize the national fight against terrorism at this time. i am sorry to say that we will have to withhold our approval of the report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group mr. president, the police are your best friend. with that slogan, the dutch police once tried to improve its image and restore authority for public order and safety. the need for crossborder cooperation is evident in our time, when public order is once again at stake. national police institutes are already organising intensive contact at the level of commissioners. the fact that this is now being extended to the training of senior management is a welcome addition. the european commission's proposal to make the european police college an institution of the european union has my conditional approval. it is quite clear that this proposal is aimed at a more efficient and effective police academy. i object to the widening of the target group. the extension of the target group to all law enforcement services is disproportionate to the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. the december 2003 evaluation found that there was no need to extend the target group to lower-level police officers and other law enforcement services. it is a very serious interference with national autonomy and will also have to make concessions in terms of content. if, as the rapporteur rightly points out, the efficient use of resources is an objective of the commission's proposal, i am surprised that brussels has not been chosen as the location. my working visits to european agencies have consistently shown that the cost of staff based outside brussels is significantly higher than that of staff based in brussels. in particular, travel costs between the place of establishment and brussels by commission officials constitute a major cost item. president, i'm going to circle back. i support mr demetriou's report and hope that the commission will give serious consideration to parliament's amendments in the directive in this consultation procedure. this will help to give a better shape to the restoration of police authority.
president, no unnecessary rules, more flexibility and less bureaucracy, that is the motto of this parliament with a view to the lisbon agenda. that means that i am not satisfied with the position of the committee on transport on the regulation on driving and rest periods. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including the introduction of a new system of driving time and rest periods. a number of colleagues have already spoken about making the digital tachograph compulsory under 3.5 tonnes. of course, that cannot work in practice. the introduction of the digital tachograph in existing vehicles is also not possible, because it is often technically impossible and therefore undesirable. thirdly, mr president, it must be more practical and less administrative. eleven hours of sleep instead of twelve is more than enough. the council agrees with this and i hope that parliament will follow suit by rejecting the first part of amendment no 62. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety is not compromised. here too the council's proposal is better and i therefore hope that mr markov will be a little more forthcoming with the council on these points. finally, we want safer transport. so we must encourage long-distance transport with a dual crew rather than discourage it. in the run-up to the vote in plenary, i would urge you to reject the proposal on the points mentioned, because these measures impose unnecessary costs on those enterprises which are often small. if the result of the vote in the plenary is not significantly better than in the transport committee, then perhaps the best solution is to fall back on existing legislation.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, in particular mr wynn and mrs juknevičienė of our group. i think it must have been a pleasure for mr wynn in particular to be rapporteur for discharge for once, after so many years in the committee on budgets. we have a new commission and we cannot hold that commission responsible for the events of 2003. nevertheless, we must learn from all that happened that year. the most striking thing is that there is still no positive das and i am pleased with the statement by the commissioner this morning that he wants to draw up a kind of timetable for achieving a positive das by july this year, which is essential. it is also essential that we consult well with the court of auditors on how we can achieve that positive das, because there is no way that the court of auditors will change the rules of the game over and over again throughout the period. we need to know how to achieve a positive das. it is important for public opinion that with this new commission and this new commissioner we can finally reach a positive sda. the responsibility lies with the member states. one of the paragraphs in the resolution which requires the member states to have the personally most responsible political guardian to ensure that european money is well spent is an important new point in the whole discussion with the member states. i hope that it will be taken up by the council of finance ministers, who always have such high regard for austerity and all things related to it. i would like to say a final word to my colleague, mrs juknevičienė. it is very admirable that someone from a new member state has produced such a thorough report. i hope that the amendments will be adopted.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, ona juknevičienė, for her excellent work on parliament’s discharge, which is an important one. the rapporteur pointed out that the report has been the subject of lively debate in the alde group. i can say that the same applies to my own group. if these discussions prove anything it is the need for a single members’ statute, which would solve many of the problems discussed in this discharge. therefore i call on the council to reach a compromise. parliament has already done so. i should like to focus attention on two separate issues. firstly, the amendments concerning the voluntary pension fund and in particular the estimated deficit have led to much discussion among my colleagues. the majority of my group has decided not to support the extra amendments put forward, but instead to support the critical text already in the report. i, however, support these amendments, as will the rest of my delegation. again, i ask my colleagues to do the same. the second issue is the need for a single working place for this house. in my view this issue reaches to the core of parliament’s credibility. the amount of public funds spent annually on this dispersion to multiple working places is immense and the general public neither understands nor supports this inefficient way of working. i believe that we need a single seat. i also believe that brussels would be the most logical choice as the other institutions are already based there. however, i recognise the historic value of strasbourg and i understand the value of this parliament to the city. therefore i call on the council and the commission to offer the city a high-level alternative for the future, on which i have some ideas. commission president barroso has expressed ideas on the need for a european institute for technology as a part of the lisbon agenda. i support that idea and this building would be perfect for a high-level university and technological research centre where europe’s best and brightest could be assembled for the ambitious future of this union, instead of its troubled past. therefore i call on this house to support the amendments. i call on the council to take them seriously and solve this issue once and for all.
mr president, the internal auditor of the commission does not know whether the accounts are complete and correct. the accounting system doesn't automatically record everything. the internal audit service literally says: the commission's figures are not reflective of the reality of the situation. parliament has not been given access to important information necessary for discharge. there was only a summary of the original report by then-internal auditor jules muis. mr muis left the commission on 1 april 2004. he found no audience for his advice. the chief of staff even warned mouse with the words: "we know how to break people like you". the final report of the ias on eurostat was only available to three members of parliament. since only one has been re-elected, only one member now has access. the committee on budgetary control does not accept these accounts because the accounting officer does not sign the figures. in any other undertaking this would mean that these accounts could not form the basis for a discharge. the rapporteur, mr wynn, has rightly pointed out this shortcoming and we as representatives of the people now have the duty to postpone the granting of discharge until the accounting officer has the courage to sign. the 2002 accounting officer, mrs andreasen, has just submitted a petition to parliament on this matter. her petition is admissible, but parliament has still not agreed to hear her. the court also has doubts about the effectiveness of the controls carried out in the commission's accounts and the legality of the expenditure by member state. my support for mr stubb's report depends on the adoption of the id group's amendments concerning the committee of the regions. the former internal accountant and now unfortunately whistleblower, robert mccoy, has done his duty as an accountant, but he's been destroyed. the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament has not been adopted and this was a condition for discharge. the amendment by the id group also rightly states that olaf failed to give its investigation report to the belgian judiciary. here too the whistleblower has been denied the right to make his case in the committee on budgetary control. in the light of the treatment of andreasen, moise and mccoy and all the others i have not mentioned, can we then simply give a discharge on behalf of the citizens?
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the fight against poverty is central. the report rightly emphasizes three areas where the european union really needs to do better: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i am glad that the commissioner has also given this a lot of attention in his contribution. the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national product to development aid is still being honoured by only five member states. the coherence of the policies and our assistance to developing countries in building up their local and regional economies is not very credible if we simultaneously destroy them through our agricultural and trade policies. i am glad that the commissioner is also very much concerned about this. thirdly, the efficient use of resources. we can achieve much more if we do work with greater efficiency and also make more use of the possible 'quick wins', such as the deployment of mosquito nets in the context of the fight against malaria. i would like to stress a few other important points which are also dealt with in the report. the importance of education for girls. it cannot be stressed enough that girls and women often suffer disproportionately from poverty, from problems and, certainly, from lack of access to education. furthermore, research shows that girls' education has a positive impact on society as a whole and thus on poverty reduction as such. secondly, the importance of diversification in the cultivation of products and of a strong position of small and mediumsized enterprises in view of a stable economy. thirdly, the need for the so-called special and differential treatment of poor countries. that will also be an important point within the wto. fourthly, the availability and access to basic health care, which is a prerequisite for the implementation of health policy. finally, capacity building is needed in all areas. in short, mr president, there is a lot to be done and fortunately europe is doing a lot. as the biggest donor - the commissioner said - europe has a great challenge to be the biggest player in terms of vision, coherence and action.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and to ensure that the world's poorest people are not left behind. and when you look at africa, you have to say that there is a dramatic situation on all of these points, because instead of moving closer to those goals on the way to 2015, we are moving away from them. if this keeps up, we won't be there in a hundred years. and that paints a picture of the failure of world leadership, especially where africa is concerned. the recent report by geoffrey sachs makes it clear that this should not be necessary. with enough money, good prioritization and enough campaign focus, for example, malaria can be eradicated, children can go to school, girls can lead, and poverty can be cut in half. in september - the commissioner has already said this - the un summit can deal with millennium issues. that is why it is of course of the utmost importance that what we agree there is translated by the commission and the council into european objectives for the eu. we can do this, as the commissioner said, by means of financing at the level of the member states, but also by giving sufficient priority here in parliament and in the council to multiannual financing and to make it stick within the percentage for social spending of the millennium development goals, including especially the 20% for basic education and basic health care. the current figures - 2% for education, 6% for health, also in the edf figures - are alarming. i call on the commission and the council to take up these demands seriously, together with the european parliament, so that we can avoid confrontation and work together to put an end to it. we are prepared to give the commission room for manoeuvre only if there are firm agreements. first of all, these agreements must be clearly and properly defined, because the current 2% and 6% are really not enough. we'd have to wait another hundred years, and we don't want to!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat malaria, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine and the introduction of a new vaccine. it is, of course, disastrous in itself to think that we have both the knowledge and the means and that this situation is still going on. the medicine is available and the disease is curable. simple, impregnated bed nets are the most effective and inexpensive way to prevent infection. but the reality is that only 2% of children in africa are covered by these nets. and the core is the bottlenecks in organization and distribution. geoffrey sachs has once again put his nose on the facts. the means are there, now the political will. he says "quick win", but i say, "quick win". that's only going to be structural if you're really campaigning and setting clear priorities. we've shown before, around the world, that we can. in polio, for example, we've managed to eradicate that disease by about 99 percent. the important thing now is not to have competition between different poverty-related diseases, but to tackle together the totality of basic health care in africa. of course, as the commissioner said, the most vulnerable areas, where there are no basic services and no regional structures, and where there is poor hygiene, are the first priority. we must not forget that 50% of africa's population lives in urban areas, so the problem is not only rural, it certainly occurs in the city, and the city needs another form of organization. it is always local organisers, it is always those basic health services, it is always those bottlenecks that cause problems in those systems and i hope that the commissioner is able to change that with his strategy. those local people will be happy to cooperate, mr. chairman, because those are the people whose parents, of course, have children who are going to die of malaria. they know how serious this is and they will certainly give their full cooperation.
rapporteur.– mr president, amendment 51 is not a typical verts/ale group amendment. it is a compromise amendment. i would like to ask you to put that to the vote first. i would also like to propose one change, as indicated in the voting list, that the word ‘should’ be replaced by the word ‘shall’. the text will then read as follows: ‘the proposed provisions are not intended to affect specific measures in force in national legislation in the context of the fight against certain serious and complex forms of crime, in particular terrorism’. the following will then be added: ‘all measures shall be in conformity with the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union’.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. mr president, i was particularly struck by the words of the council representative, mr schmit, who spoke of the social values of the european union. we must also look at this enlargement from the standpoint of the union's values. there is no doubt that romania and bulgaria will eventually be part of the european union. but from the point of view of agriculture and the committee on agriculture, i have to say that the financing is not yet settled. it is not clear how we are going to finance the accession of these two countries. i would just like to remind you of the social rights you mentioned and the values we have. i do not believe that the council intends to finance this accession at the expense of the rural areas of the present 25 member states. that does not correspond to the high values of the european union and so the council will also be adding butter to the fish, i assume. the second point concerns the functioning of these countries in a new union. the commission was right to raise questions about border controls. i would point out that this union has reached a high level thanks to an excellent policy in the field of food safety. romania is far short of what it needs in this area. you must realize that if we were to take a decision now, large parts of romania would not be able to enter the european common market, while we would be able to sell products on their market with a population that still has to live in the countryside for 30 to 40% of its life and earn its living there. that means that romania is not far enough along in that respect. i may be blunt, but fairness dictates that i do so when i look at the social structure of the countryside. i would like to congratulate bulgaria on its reform programme and on the issue of property rights. the rural development programme has also been well implemented. a critical note on romania's failure to spend enough sapard money to get that rural development going. it would be very important if parliament had a little more time to decide on this, because the new government is making a good effort but the results are not sufficient at the moment. if you want to compare with previous accessions, you have to be realistic. bulgaria is fairly close to the 10 newest members, but romania is not in the same position as the other countries in terms of rural development, agricultural policy, the risk of animal diseases and food safety legislation. that is part of our european values, which we love, which we support and which we believe will benefit society if we can maintain them. at the moment i am sad to see that romania is facing a great many criticisms in the agricultural sector.
president. - tomorrow this house will be voting on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union. but there are still 20 months between now and the date of accession now planned, and a number of questions, which have already been discussed at length here, are still open. the situation in romania is of the greatest concern to us. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the reform of the structural funds. the fight against corruption needs to be stepped up and there must be better guarantees for the freedom and independence of the press. these and many other issues have been mentioned in the reports of the european commission and our own rapporteurs. like the council and the european commission, we want to keep the pressure on the boiler in bulgaria, and especially in romania, so that the necessary reforms are actually carried out within the agreed deadlines. the shortcomings in romania are such that our 'yes' is at the moment conditional. there is still a possibility that the safeguard clauses will come into force to protect the union from the negative effects of any shortcomings. if either country is in too deep a default, accession may even be postponed. the european parliament cannot be a mere spectator when it is monitoring and deciding on the use of safeguards or the possible postponement of accession. we have therefore rightly asked the council and the commission to involve parliament fully in the monitoring and decision-making process until the day of accession. the statements we have heard this afternoon indicate that they are prepared to do so. this is a win for the european parliament's position and, above all, for democratic control of the enlargement process, and i also regard it as a political agreement. if parliament, by a large majority, should later in the process have reason to doubt the progress or readiness of romania or bulgaria, then the council and this commission can hardly ignore this position if they wish to avoid serious political confrontation. so our agreement tomorrow is actually one with a kind of reservation. it is also a kind of political agreement with the candidates for accession. it is a signal that we will continue to work intensively with them over the next year and a half and that it is their own efforts which will ultimately be decisive.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to say that in december last year my group voted against mr moscovici's report because we thought that the report on romania was far too positive and that there was no indication that it addressed the fundamental problems, such as fighting corruption and guaranteeing an independent media and a free press. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we would have voted against romania's accession tomorrow. the old government in romania was part of the problem and not of the solution, but fortunately there is now a new government whose priorities are the same as the concerns of this parliament. since the new government took office, it has made it clear that it is serious about tackling the same problems i have just mentioned. since then, the immunity of former ministers and former members of parliament has been lifted. 25 senior police commissioners suspected of corruption have been dismissed and criminal cases for corruption are expected to be opened against former ministers soon. in short, this government, and in particular the minister of justice, deserves the support of parliament. i say this to all the colleagues who want to vote no. a "no" now against this government is punishing this government for the mistakes of the old. it would destabilize this government, and if there's one thing i don't want, it's the old government back in power. so yes to this government is yes, but with conditions. it is crucial that the european parliament continues to have a say in the enlargement of romania beyond tomorrow, and that is why i have taken the initiative to obtain a commitment from the european commission and the european council that parliament will indeed remain involved in the enlargement beyond tomorrow. i am glad to be working with the rapporteur. i am glad that the cooperation with the colleagues has been successful. i am particularly pleased with the commitment made by mr rehn today and in a letter from mr barroso to mr borrell. ladies and gentlemen, if it is necessary to make use of the deferral clauses in the future, in the next year and a half, parliament will be fully involved. if parliament itself thinks that there are not enough reforms in 2005 or 2006 and that it is therefore necessary to start the deferral procedure on very specific points such as the fight against corruption, then that is possible and then that creates a political fact which will have to be responded to, at european level by the commission and the council and at national level. we must not forget that the treaty with romania and bulgaria is in the process of ratification and that their parliaments will also be attentive to what the european parliament says in the future. my message, our message to the new government is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so.
president, bulgaria and romania were not immediately admitted to the 2004 enlargement because their negotiations were behind schedule. bulgaria is noted for its eagerness to build major roads and airports without regard for human health, nature, the environment and the rules of the european union. moreover, despite eu-funded projects, the large roma population is far from being in a position to do the same. poverty and unemployment are high. there is a government in power that relies on the temporary popularity of one person. the man who would have liked to be king, but lacks a large, organized, cohesive following. this strange situation will probably end after the elections on 25 june. bulgaria scores no worse than some states that were already admitted in 2004, so criticism cannot be a good reason to wait longer than 2007. the accession of romania is much more controversial. the independence of the press, the judiciary and non-governmental organisations had not been guaranteed in recent years. although romania has applied to join the european union, i have the impression that it is more inclined to look to the united states and turkey. it is so bad that the initial enthusiasm in the neighbouring country of moldova to return to romania has completely disappeared. governmental tasks have been neglected, but there is room for a wild-west economy. in an effort to extract minerals cheaply, foreign adventurers are hired to use dangerous chemicals that can seriously pollute soil, groundwater, and river waters. in neighboring hungary, which has already been hit by toxic river water from romania, there is a fearful look ahead to the gold mining project in rosia montana in romania's alba province, where cyanide will be used. romania has also signed a treaty with the united states to oppose the international criminal court in the hague. romania is the showcase of the 'new europe' of us secretary of defence rumsfeld. of all the countries admitted so far, romania has the worst score. that in itself could be a reason to reject romania's membership at this time. my group, however, defends the right of rapid accession of european countries with a low standard of living, provided they quickly comply with human rights, democratic and environmental requirements. the admission of romania, of course, makes it more difficult for turkey to be pressured to become a decent democratic country before it is admitted to the european union. it also eliminates any serious argument for further delaying the negotiations with the former yugoslav republics of croatia and macedonia, which in recent years have been hoping to join the eu at the same time as romania. we do not know how romania will develop under a new government in the near future and whether a solution to the existing problems is in sight. it is therefore right that the option of postponement should remain as a means of pressure. that should be the right not only of the council but also of this parliament.
on behalf of the ind/dem group thank you, mr president, for the clarity and honesty of mr moscovici's report on romania's application for membership of the european union. both achievements and shortcomings in this crucial phase of bucharest's long and difficult road to brussels are discussed. in paragraph 6 in particular, the rapporteur emphasizes the outstanding european commitments of the romanian government. the commission has also been active in the fight against corruption and has been involved in the implementation of the european union's anti-corruption strategy. the integrity and commitment of the new romanian minister of justice, ms monica macovei, is beyond doubt, as an informed spokesman assured me yesterday. however, she encounters much opposition, even within her ministry. i would welcome an open declaration of support for the commission. such a positive signal can even work in two ways and is picked up both inside and outside the country. i therefore support what mr lagendijk said on this point. in addition, the commission could encourage the romanian government to launch a new anti-corruption campaign, following the example of 'don't give a bribe'. after all, this evil affects the whole of society. mr president, i sincerely hope that the moscovici report will contribute to romania's responsible accession to the european union on 1 january 2007. i would also like to express the same wish for the excellent report by mr van orden on bulgaria.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. commissioner, you are asking us to support you. i am very pleased, because i think you are doing very well within the limits of the powers that the treaties give you. the debate should be held with the council. it has been said before that the council does not give you the feeling that there is a real sense of a great threat that needs to be addressed. there is talk, there is talk, there is some coordination, there are some working groups here and there, but you don't get the impression that anything is really happening. is that so bad? yes, in today's society and especially in the european union, this is of course very bad, because if something goes wrong in one member state, it has consequences for the other member states. so it is in the interests of all of us that everything goes well throughout the european union. if there is an outbreak of animal diseases, the commissioner for agriculture can take far-reaching action immediately. immediately, streets are closed, entire areas are sealed off, and all kinds of things happen. if something like this were to happen among humans, there's nothing we could do about it. i think that as commissioner you should be able to take crisis measures within 24 hours when it comes to quarantine, when it comes to disinfection measures at airports and on flights from certain regions, and also when it comes to travel restrictions. of course, it would be much better if all the member states collectively, in a spirit of solidarity and unity, took such measures at the same time, but frankly i do not have confidence that they would do so. i therefore think that the ministers of health should give you those powers. you are right to say that according to the world health organisation the question is not whether the pandemic will break out, but when. their estimate was 8 million dead, and it could be as high as 30 million. children and people over 50 are at high risk, of course, and there are no vaccines or adequate antiviral drugs. here too, european action is really important. where do you want to do that? perhaps it should be in a country neighbouring the european union rather than in the union itself. i think that the ministers should give you far-reaching powers in this respect too. finally, my final point. if travel restrictions are introduced, what will happen to the meetings of the european council and the european parliament?
i am also pleased that we have finally reached agreement with the council on this matter. i think we have, however, had a little cheese on the bread. i think that the council has got its way on many points. i hope the council will soon regret this, because stronger action on energy saving is really urgently needed, for example to meet the kyoto targets. yesterday a study in the netherlands revealed that citizens can save 400 euros a year in energy without much effort. a lot of power is used by devices that are on standby. this is a priority for the commission and the manufacturers. i therefore call on the commission to give parliament a deadline within which it will submit the first implementing directives so that we can also achieve results quickly with this directive.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in any case, it has become clear to me during the consideration of this dossier in the committee on the environment that there are many arguments for limiting the sulphur content of fuels and few arguments against it. the introduction of a 0.5% sulphur limit throughout the european union would bring benefits that are 7.5 times greater than the costs involved. i therefore think that the council could have been a little more positive about parliament's demand to limit the limit to 0.5%. we expect an evaluation of community air quality policy to be carried out shortly. we know that in some member states this is not going well, which is partly due to the fact that the emissions of harmful substances from traffic are not falling. the council should have realised that if it sees air pollution as a serious problem, it should also be serious about finding solutions. that is why i regret that we have not been able to achieve more than the present compromise. i will support it, but i hope for a tightening up in the future and i thank the rapporteur, mrs hassi, for the extremely good cooperation.
the european council has stated that the services directive should be given a more social face. the purpose of the directive is to ensure that the conditions of employment of workers in member states with less stringent working conditions are not abused, nor to prevent unfair competition with regard to service providers in member states with more stringent working conditions. the lack of compliance with the applicable labour law will lead to undesirable situations and the concern for this has given rise to concern among citizens. the directive takes account of the fact that service providers are bound by the local labour law under european rules. the only condition is that the employment law be effectively enforced, otherwise there is indeed abuse and unfair competition. the proposal for a directive has not so far provided sufficient guarantees for this. the proposal does not place the task of enforcement on the country of destination but on the country of origin, and this creates an unworkable situation. it is not right to demand that polish authorities, for example, check whether polish workers in the netherlands are working in accordance with dutch labour standards. we need a different approach to achieve a workable system of enforcement of working conditions in all member states. the country of origin will have to declare at least that its resident will become active in the country of destination. the exchange of information is therefore a first step towards the enforcement of labour law. i assume that the commission will incorporate this obligation to notify in the directive. eight environmental organizations have rightly pointed out the consequences of this directive for nature, the environment and health. the concept of integration in the eu treaty with the aim of sustainable development has apparently been forgotten for a while. the european council has not made it clear what direction it wants to take and how the directive can be given a more social and ecological face. that was the intention of the lisbon process. the fact remains that the european parliament was the driving force behind the legislative process and not the council. however, the european council has brought the services directive to the agenda because of the specific interests of individual member states. that is what is shaking the institutional framework. it seems that the council is now in a position to give this social aspect a greater prominence, given the debate on the european constitution in france, although there are more pertinent arguments against this constitution.
the satisfaction of the summit is, in my view, totally misplaced. it was a shameful spectacle, a cow-trading of political interests and those same politicians who then cry hot crocodile tears over the cynicism of the citizen. i think that the credibility of the european union has been damaged once again. this summit should have equipped the european economy for the 21st century and should have led to greater budgetary discipline and a free market in services, but instead we are stuck with the old recipe of debt and protectionism. to call that social is a disgrace. it is said that the stability pact has been saved, but i see vague wording, escape clauses and accounting tricks, and the way in which the political leaders are handling the services directive is pure demagogy. i would like to take as an example the new countries which are not suffering from our complacency but are much more dynamic and are carrying out reforms. finally, mr president, i hope that after the various referendums and elections, long-term vision, courage, a sense of responsibility and political leadership will finally prevail.
the advantage of speaking at the end of a debate is that it can be taken up on a number of issues that have been raised and i want to do so on the basis of three misunderstandings that dominate the debate. the first misunderstanding concerns the reform of the stability and growth pact. this was not just a matter of trade in cows between member states which found it difficult to meet the standards of the pact. there was a discussion on economic policy and on the economic rationality of the pact in the context of macroeconomic policy. this may not have been very clear in the way it was discussed in the media, but it was certainly taken into account by the luxembourg presidency. i hope that the european commission will be able to use the reform of the pact as an instrument for an improved european macroeconomic policy from this more macroeconomic point of view. the second point concerns the integrated treatment of the economic and employment guidelines and the microeconomic policy, as also presented by the commission yesterday. of course, all this fits within the framework of the lisbon strategy and my group has called for streamlining these processes and an integrated approach. we must be careful, however, that there is no hierarchy of procedures and that no particular council formation, commissioner, specialised committee or integrated structure in parliament is given prominence. we do not want a supercommissioner, a supercouncil or a specialised committee which only deals with these matters. a third point concerns the services directive. i would like to stress once again that the opposition to this is not about preventing the free movement of services and labour, but about the conditions under which this must take place. the commission has done its homework badly and we must realise that labour migration is inextricably linked to the free movement of services and that much more needs to be done in this respect than has been done so far, also apart from this services directive.
mr president of the council and mr president of the european commission, you both devoted a large part of your statements today to the lisbon process. the president of the council did so in a rather broad way, emphasizing balance and economic growth, which cannot be achieved without environmental and social responsibility. the council has also made this trinity clear to you, mr president-in-office, in the comprehensive approach which is also reflected in the council conclusions. i also agree with the way in which you have paid attention to smes. i have never seen council conclusions in which the words smes, innovation and the environment were mentioned so often. president, in the resolution on which the european parliament is voting today, we are calling for a new dynamic in the lisbon process, a new dynamic with a focused approach which shows new leadership. mr president of the commission, i shall come to you next. you can only achieve this leadership and dynamism by working together with the member states, the regions and the social partners. i have the impression from your presentation this morning that the 'man in man' approach, as the president-in-office of the council called it, is not entirely out of the question. i may be wrong, but i have the impression that a lot of paperwork is being imposed on the member states. i also have the impression that attention to the social policy agenda is declining rather than growing. i also feel that there is little to be desired in this 'hand in hand' with parliament when it comes to the integrated employment policies. i would like to see some discussion of that in the future.
i had tabled an amendment to the agenda with enough signatures and enough time to reject the whole agenda and ask the bureau to come up with a new proposal because the committees are now unable to function. it is a question of the power of parliament. i don't see that in the list.
mr president, at the request of the rapporteur, mr van orden, we would like to add the word ‘illegal’ before the word ‘logging’ in the last line of this amendment.
mr president, i have an oral amendment that applies to four amendments. in mr moscovici and mr van orden’s reports, and also in the recommendations, we want to have a reference to the exchange of letters between you and the president of the commission on the full association of the european parliament in the forthcoming process over the next 20 months concerning safeguard clauses. the original amendment is not precise enough with regard to the eventual postponement. therefore, in those four places i propose to replace the amendment with a new text, which i will read only once, but which can be referred to in the other three instances. the new text will read: ‘... having regard to the exchange of letters between the president of the european parliament and the president of the commission on the full association of the european parliament with any consideration of activation of one of the safeguard clauses on the treaty of accession’. that will apply to all four texts.
mr president, i move the same revised amendment as i proposed earlier on mr van orden’s report. this is the same text that i want to put into the recommendation.
mr president, this is the same text that we adopted in the van orden recommendation and report. we will be repeating the same text in the two votes on the moscovici report and recommendation.
in writing. today i did not approve romania's application for eu membership. i'm sorry, i have to make a determination. the new government is showing enormous political commitment and has made clear in a short time what it stands for. that's good news. the commission's efforts have yet to be translated into concrete actions with measurable effects. it's the result that counts. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. and yet this house has been asked to give its opinion no less than 20 months before accession. this has never been shown before and the logic of it eludes me completely. it is important that the european institutions stick to the agreements they have made, especially at a time when the union's support is very limited and its legitimacy is fragile. i am not against romania's accession. romania is europe and romania is joining the european union. i only want the accession to take place on the basis of what we have agreed with each other before.
in writing. romania is still having great difficulty in being ready in time for eu accession in 2007, thanks to the lack of progress under the previous socialist government. the situation in the area of corruption and administrative and legal stability is of particular concern. it seems to me quite possible that in due course a year's delay will have to be made. the european parliament has been put in the impossible position of giving an opinion 20 months before accession. however, at the moment we see that the new government is on track with the implementation of the required reforms, and that the european commission, as recently in the case of croatia, is taking a strict line in assessing candidate members. i therefore give both the romanian government and the european commission the benefit of the doubt. i hope that progress will continue as it is now, because only then will i be able to continue to support romania's accession in 2007.
in writing. i have thought of voting against further enlargement, not because of the question of whether romania is ready for accession, but because in my opinion the eu itself is not ready for further enlargement. this is evident from the current deadlock in decision-making and the mistrust of several 'old' member states towards 'new' member states on issues such as the services directive. this does not provide new member states with sufficient opportunities to take full advantage of the internal market. unchecked expansion without deepening will lead to administrative impotence and possibly even to an implosion. this is not to the advantage of anyone, especially not of the applicant countries, which have had to make enormous efforts in recent years to meet the criteria for admission. i express the fervent hope that, with the acceptance of the constitutional treaty, the administrative efficiency and economic absorption will increase to such an extent that it is justified for both the eu and the new candidate countries to work together on further enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted with great hesitation for the accession of bulgaria and romania. i have serious doubts because the reports of corruption in romania in particular do not reassure me about the suitability of this country for membership of the european union. the way in which the council decided to finance the accession of these two countries, recognising the budgetary powers of the european parliament only at the last moment, also undermines the need to decide on the accession of these countries 20 months in advance. the geopolitical advantages of the accession of these countries are decisive for me. the european union has also been promoting membership for many years and has made major changes in legislation. it is uncertain what negative reactions a refusal to join the european union would evoke. the accession treaties also contain safeguard clauses which may delay accession. all of this led me to a cautious "yes".
for the greens/efa group it has been stressed by several speakers in this debate and in various reports and statements by the commission and the council. the countries of the western balkans are future members of the european union. but in today's social climate, that's easier said than done. we heard it this morning in the debate on romania and mr swoboda has already referred to it: there's a certain expansion fatigue. i am very much afraid that this exhaustion from enlargement will have repercussions, above all, on our balkan policy. i am still convinced that - however unpopular it may be, and i emphasize it again here - the european union needs a balkan strategy. a report was published yesterday by the international commission on the balkans, which has a lot of interesting and knowledgeable people in it. i quote from that report. it's about the western balkans. "the wars may be over, but the smell of violence still hangs in the air". if you travel around the balkans, in any country, that's the situation, and that means that the eu simply cannot afford to think: we're not in a good place right now, so let's just leave those countries alone for a while. in this new strategy, in this strategy for the balkans, which is geared to membership, two factors are important. firstly - and this is very obvious, i repeat it again - the social and economic development of the region is at present disastrous and this is the main source of instability. with high unemployment rates, it is virtually impossible for young people leaving school there to build a future on the ground. this leads to more crime, insecurity and instability, and we should not want that. if the european union is good at anything, it is in promoting economic ties between these countries and between them and the european union. the second element which we must not abandon is the adherence to the basic conditions of human rights and minority rights. although we were divided on this as balkan spokesmen on croatia, i think it has now been proved that the council's insistence on cooperation with the hague tribunal as a condition for the opening of negotiations has positive effects both in bosnia-herzegovina and in serbia. i am glad and i congratulate the council on its firmness in its cooperation with the court. now for the matter that concerns us all: the kosovo. i have just been there and i am sure that the report on the standards and what has happened so far will come naturally. i really believe that this debate on the status will take place. in that debate europe must take the lead, whether it likes it or not, because we are at the root of it. we have the reward for serbia and kosovo in our own hands. the debate on kosovo's independence must be conducted under a number of conditions which are already becoming clear: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. but, ladies and gentlemen, to do nothing and look the other way, to pretend that it is too difficult for europe to intervene in the balkans now, that is an approach we cannot afford. doing nothing leads to an untenable and dangerous situation. let us not do that to ourselves and to the countries of the balkans!
in the 1990s it was thought that we could solve the problems in the former yugoslavia by establishing protectorates, sending in external administrators and military personnel and forcing refugees to return to areas where a different ethnic majority had emerged. the american model leads to stagnation. it forces the people there back into the role of immature children. they're gonna sit back and wait for those foreign meddlers to leave. the alternative to this stagnation is to find a peaceful and democratic way from below by taking seriously how the people in, for example, kosovo, montenegro, the separate entities in bosnia or the two large linguistic areas in macedonia themselves see their future and how they want to call themselves. states and groups of people who faced each other in the 1990s continue to reject domination by their neighbours, but they are willing to cooperate with open borders. a rapid start of the negotiations on accession to the european union, starting with croatia and macedonia, can help to achieve this. europe must now seek real solutions, with all those concerned, without prejudice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. clear language from eufor, the european union military mission in that country. almost ten years after dayton, the former warring parties continue the ethnic struggle unabated in the political arena. the ad hoc delegation of this parliament to sarajevo and mostar last week, for example, was given a rather less than encouraging but realistic picture of the current situation in bosnia-herzegovina. this underlines once again the usefulness of the eufor mission on the ground. the religious communities in bosnia and herzegovina should be expected to make a conciliatory contribution. representatives of the council, the commission and eufor said otherwise. i would urge the council and the commission to continue to call on the ecclesiastical authorities and the reis al-ulema to bear their great responsibility in this matter. the recent arrest of bosniaks in chechnya is a clear sign. it illustrates the danger of religious extremism which eufor sources have called our attention to. a moving part of the ad hoc delegation's visit to sarajevo was a tour of minefields. the council and the commission, only the clearing of these killing fields will make the transition to a peaceful existence possible. so please invest extra in the future of bosnia and herzegovina in this way!
today we are discussing the report on the external action of the european union in 2003. i am particularly pleased that the rapporteur, mr brok, has stressed that the involvement of the european parliament should not be limited to an after-the-fact discussion. i therefore take the liberty of dealing with some of the issues that have been raised in the past year and looking ahead. the development of the european security strategy, which is also discussed here, will play an important role in this. the kuhne report - and i commend the rapporteur - gives an excellent assessment of the practical effects of this security strategy so far. i would ask the commission, the council and of course the high representative to take these recommendations very seriously. i would like to make two points. firstly, there is the military dimension. europe can only play a central role if we are also willing and able to take military action if necessary. preventing conflict escalation to the point where military intervention is necessary is and remains the first priority, while the actual use of military means should continue to emphasise interaction with other instruments: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include humanitarian intervention, the rule of law, institution building, democratisation and economic development. the first major european military mission, the althea mission in bosnia-herzegovina, is already gaining experience in combining civilian and military capabilities in this way. the development of the european defence leg has a political aspect as well as a material one. the european union must develop a political framework which will enable us to use military means when deemed necessary. the second question concerns the intersections between internal and external security, which are particularly evident in the fight against terrorism. the coherence between these two is not sufficiently developed in european policy at present. the council has rightly asked the high representative to make proposals in this area and i call on him to involve parliament in this. the brok report and the kuhne report call for attention to be paid to this. the implementation of the common foreign and security policy is unfortunately not always as common as i would like. nevertheless, my evaluation of the past few years is not so negative. the european union has played an important role in the upheaval in ukraine. the prompt reaction of the presidency and the good coordination between parliament and the council, as well as the action of the high representative and the heads of state of poland and lithuania, contributed greatly to the positive outcome of that political crisis. the involvement of france, germany and the united kingdom within the eu in the conflict over the iranian nuclear programme is also, in my view, a good example of how things can be dealt with in a european manner. the outcome is uncertain, but we believe that the diplomatic approach, the model used, is of great importance. the principles of the european common foreign and security policy, multilateralism, preventive engagement, a broad approach centred on democracy and social and economic development, conflict resolution and the cessation of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are at the heart of our full support. but we cannot stress enough that solidarity is a prerequisite, because it is only by coming together that europe can assert its political weight.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the need to take account of the end of the life cycle in the design of new cars arose in the early 1990s, among others, in the netherlands, when bilateral agreements were concluded between manufacturers and the public authorities. european manufacturers have gained a great deal of experience in recycling. the manufacturers estimate the cost of the recycling obligation at an average of eur 30 per car, but the industry will recover this cost quickly. the price of raw materials is rising exponentially, mainly due to the huge demand from china. rising raw material costs make recycling especially rewarding. this environmental innovation also gives europe a head start on its competitors, since both japan and the united states lack regulations on recycling. our group can agree with the amended proposal and would like to thank the rapporteur. i also want to apologize to the shadow reporter who couldn't be here tonight. i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to look at the automobile industry in a broader way today. the high level group on cars 21 was set up earlier this year. the high level group is responsible for formulating recommendations for the european automotive industry. this is mainly about competitiveness and employment, but also about safety and environmental performance. let me start by saying that i am a strong supporter of the sectoral approach. the lisbon process must be put into practice within sectors. the european commission is moving in the right direction with the cars 21 initiative, but i fear that the creation of the high level group will turn out to be nothing more than a deregulation operation for the automobile industry, the abolition of annoying environmental and social protection rules under the guise of improving competitiveness. i would therefore urge you to look further ahead and to show more ambition, because the environment and competitiveness are not contradictory, but rather mutually reinforcing. an industry that continually achieves better environmental performance improves its global competitiveness. i believe that environmentally friendly cars are essential to a viable european car industry. that's why i took the initiative to create a low level group on cars. in the spirit of the lisbon objective, the low level group will focus on employment, competitiveness and a cleaner environment. i will be working with interested colleagues to draw up a number of recommendations which i will present to the commissioners responsible and to the high level group in july. what is the future of the european automobile industry? the car industry has made great progress in terms of environmental and safety, but is this the right approach for the future? i think we in europe should think together about the car of the future. at least that car is lighter, smaller, more fuel efficient and more efficient. this will also be the basis of a modern, competitive and environmentally friendly automotive industry. rising raw material prices are making recycling and reuse of materials worthwhile, and technological progress in this area can make a major contribution to a good competitive position for the european automotive industry.
in writing. since the early 1990s, there has been a problem with the name of a country in the north of greece. three northern greek provinces have names with macedonia in them, and that name plays a part in the ancient history of greece as well. in the neighboring country, the resistance movement against the ottoman empire also used the name macedonia before 1912, and that also became the name of the southernmost state of yugoslavia between 1945 and 1991. it would be obvious that the self-chosen constitutional name 'republic of macedonia' would be generally applied. each state chooses its own name, without any interference from other states or international bodies. nevertheless, outside attempts are still being made to impose a different name, in which only the last letter indicates the real name. if we allow this, luxembourg should not be allowed to bear its own name, because the south-eastern belgian province bears the same name. now, not only the us, russia and china, but also eu member slovenia and future member bulgaria have recognized macedonia under its real name. the continued use of another name by the eu is unfair and discriminatory to a likely future member state.
president. - as part of the division of the colossal british colonial empire in south asia on the basis of a regionally dominant religion, the eastern part of the province of bengal was assigned to the muslim state of pakistan in 1947. the whole world sympathized with the fact that this overpopulated and constantly water-scarce area broke away from pakistan in 1971, the distant country to the west that had no interest in helping to solve the problems in its eastern flank. the new state could have made a good start by building sea walls and polishing inhabited areas that flooded from the sea during storm surges, for example, following the dutch example. that would give more room for the residents and their food supply. instead, we saw within bangladesh an intensified struggle between two parties based on family clans fighting a feud and each denying the other's right to exist. in addition, there has long been a kind of intolerant religious fanaticism that, in that form, was virtually non-existent in other parts of the islamic world until twenty years ago. that fanaticism leaves no room for religious minorities like ahmadiyya muslims and hindus. intimidation and violent attacks by supporters of the government are not punished. paramilitary groups that claim to fight crime torture and kill people. bangladesh is in danger of falling into a spiral of self-destruction. a broadly supported statement against intimidation, violence, torture, impunity and economic stagnation will not solve the problem, but it is a starting point for determining how best we can deal with this unfortunate country from europe in the coming period. that at least means solidarity with the victims.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. we wish the leaders of this country and its people god's blessing for the new year. but just as we can do better, we have some suggestions for good intentions for bangladesh. unfortunately, although the constitution has declared islam the state religion since 1998, it gives other religions the right to profess, practice and propagate their faith. strange, though, that the "right of conversion" is not protected by the constitution. would it not be a good idea to better regulate freedom of religion in the constitution and to abolish the state religion again? i would like to illustrate the need for this, mr president, by giving a practical example. on monday, april 4, reliable sources confirmed that on march 8 this year, the christian dulal sarkar was murdered. he was an evangelist of the bangladesh free baptist church in jalalpur village in the south-western district of khulna. this man was just doing his job and did nothing against the constitution. on his way home, he was attacked and beheaded by ten armed muslim extremists. these muslim fundamentalists are said to have links with the jamaat-e-islami, a political party which is currently part of the governing coalition. dulal sarkar is survived by his mother, wife and five children, and his wife and family are currently fleeing from house to house to escape reprisals by muslim extremists. mr president, the motion for a resolution which we have co-signed is therefore extremely clear. we are very concerned about the growth of muslim fundamentalism with its paramilitary groups and the abuse of power by fundamentalist muslim parties. i am therefore absolutely opposed to the weakening amendments tabled to this clear motion for a resolution. i call on the council and the commission to work together with the state department mentioned in paragraph 2 to combat these manifestations of muslim fundamentalism. this can be done by linking consequences to violations of democratic principles in cooperation agreements. all this for the sake of all bengali citizens.
for people who have to leave their country of origin because of oppression, war, disasters and poverty, the mediterranean is an important gateway to europe. if europe fails to make a significant contribution to alleviating the problems in asia and africa, more and more people will risk entering europe in wrecked boats and abandoned ships. this is of course difficult for europe and especially for the countries bordering the mediterranean. that nuisance does not justify the violation of human rights. these refugees also have the right to an individual assessment of their motives and to a proper observance of the 1951 geneva convention. that is not the case for the hundreds of refugees who have been sent to libya from the italian island of lampedusa in recent months, because that country does not recognise the geneva convention, and italy's agreements with libya are not public. between the time of arrival in europe and any return to the country of origin, european law should apply instead of the arbitrariness of a country with an opaque administration. this can be done by adopting the two amendments by the liberals, number 2 and number 3, from the european united left, to make it clear that these refugees have the same rights as other refugees and cannot simply be deported to libya without any european responsibility.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to the directive. the new palestinian leadership must put an end to terrorist acts against israel. the council, the commission and parliament will give equal support to this urgent appeal. otherwise, we can abandon any hope of resuming peace talks. the european institutions are faced with a serious and urgent problem in the upcoming palestinian parliamentary elections, namely the participation of hamas, the islamic organization which is rightly on the european union's list of terrorist organizations. hamas is also expected to do well in the polls. how will the council and the commission react to this? the european union is not prepared to accept the palestinian elections, and the israeli prime minister, sharon, fears that the european union will no longer consider hamas a terrorist movement. and sharon wants to talk about a peace settlement only when the palestinian militant groups are completely disarmed and dismantled. if i remember correctly, the european union demanded the same thing from the palestinian authority years ago. council and commission, what are you going to say to the israeli prime minister? in any event, council and commission, you are not going to tell this house that the democratization process in the middle east is being helped by political parties having military branches - see terror units - in the middle east. then act consistently in that region. such a clear and principled european position contributes to a reasonable israeli-palestinian political agreement on human rights, on human lives, in that region.
the report by mr coveney is powerful, balanced and if europe wants to make its name in the world as an exporter of human rights, the council and the commission would do well to adopt this report in its entirety as a commitment to foreign policy and also to the forthcoming geneva conference. i want to make three points: i am very pleased to be able to speak to you today, mr president, and to begin as first vice-chairman of the delegation for central asia. the report rightly points to the situation in a number of countries, in particular uzbekistan. and i know that the government of uzbekistan says that there are no political prisoners, but you can also imprison politicians on another charge, and that has happened and still hasn't been resolved. this is also reflected in the report of the council of europe on the recent parliamentary elections in uzbekistan. the second point which shows that international pressure can work is the situation in kyrgyzstan, and we must take this region seriously and continue to monitor it. the third point is freedom of the press in kazakhstan. irina petrushova was recently detained for possible crimes unrelated to her work, but she is the main journalist for the opposition newspaper in kazakhstan. it is important that we as a parliament continue to put pressure on countries like this, precisely because we have much in common with them. they can take a step forward and we can help. my final point is the situation in iran and the way that country treats people who do not follow the mainstream religion, in this case islam. recently, it has been revealed that a death sentence has been passed against hamid pourmand, a former army colonel; his only crime would be that he's a christian. for that reason he should not have served in the army when this man's whereabouts were known. it is particularly important that parliament should appeal, also in this particular case where the death penalty is threatened. once again, my congratulations to mr coveney and i hope that the council and the commission will take this report very seriously as a contribution to our foreign policy in the field of human rights.
member of the commission. members of the house, ladies and gentlemen. the commission thanks the european parliament for putting this question on its agenda. recognises the important role that parliament plays in protecting the rights of minorities, including the roma. this role is now strengthened by the presence of roma members in parliament. the european union is founded on fundamental rights, including the principle of non-discrimination. the roma must be able to participate fully in economic, social and political life. we must therefore work together to overcome centuries of prejudice, discrimination and social exclusion against roma. it is a huge task, requiring coordinated action on several fronts, particularly in access to education, employment, housing, as well as social services. the answer to these questions lies primarily with the national authorities, as well as with the regional and local authorities where roma are most represented. civil society, as well as the roma themselves, must play an important role. the situation of the roma is a european issue that requires a union response. this response can take many forms. the commission is actively monitoring the situation of roma in the european union as well as in the candidate countries. in preparing for accession, the situation of roma and other minorities shall be assessed within the framework of political criteria. the european centre in vienna has devoted particular attention to this issue in its research on the phenomena of racism and xenophobia in the european union. the union has established a binding legal framework to combat discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin. the community legislation in force prohibits direct and indirect discrimination in access to employment, education, social protection, property and services. the commission ensures that these laws are transposed into national law and also supports awareness-raising and educational measures, including specific actions for organisations working with roma. the european union provides substantial financial support for efforts to integrate roma. during the preparation for accession, more than eur 100 million was allocated to projects for roma from the fare programme. the commission actively assists national authorities in using the structural funds to promote the inclusion of roma as well as other disadvantaged groups. a few other programs the community shall promote the exchange of experience and specific projects in the fields of employment, education, training and research within the union and in certain third countries. the commission shall endeavour to ensure that the situation of roma is taken into account in all union programmes and policies that can play a role in this area. to this end, a group has been set up, comprising representatives of all the directorates-general concerned. the group aims to exchange best practice, coordinate policies and engage in dialogue with external participants. the last meeting of the group was used to exchange information with one of the roma meps. the commission also works with other international organisations working for roma inclusion, maintaining regular contacts with the council of europe, the osce, the world bank and other major actors.in the lisbon strategy, the european union set itself ambitious targets for growth in job creation, social cohesion and sustainable development. the social exclusion of a significant part of our fellow citizens on the grounds of their membership of the roma community threatens our ability to achieve these objectives. we have a common task to fight against the social exclusion of the roma in the name of fundamental rights, we have a task to fight in the name of social cohesion and socioeconomic development of the union. the commission thanks the european parliament for its support and efforts in this area.
on behalf of the verts/ale group .– mr president, with the enlargement of the european union, the number of roma citizens has increased from 7 million to 9 million. since enlargement is an ongoing process, in future the eu will host up to 12 or 15 million roma. for thousands of years the roma have been living in diaspora, but being united in the eu they become our fellow citizens. the european union means an end to years of war and the beginning of cooperation. but how can we cooperate when people are excluded? mostly, the roma issue is connected with unemployment and a lack of education, healthcare and housing. however, the core issue is racism against roma, more specifically anti-gypsyism or roma-phobia. can we accept a situation where millions of our fellow citizens lack basic human rights and suffer from police harassment, where thousands of school children remain illiterate and the unemployment rate exceeds 70%, where attempts are made at ethnic cleansing by poisoning people and trafficking in women and children, including in western eu countries, which, contrary to the 1951 geneva convention on refugees, also expel roma refugees? the roma also face a lack of political participation, as a result of which there are not enough roma representatives to draw attention to their issues. today’s practice is not only a human tragedy: the roma have been turned into a political tool. what happened to the millions of dollars and euros donated by the us and the eu to eastern european countries for roma projects? structures set up for the purpose of helping the cause of the roma often use this cause as a pretext. in reality most of the money is spent on salaries, trips and on buying citizens, administrators and politicians. this process is defined as corruption, but actually it is manipulation. there are people in this world who do not want a dynamic europe; they practice a policy of divide and rule by maintaining poverty and establishing control over eastern european countries. the roma, europe’s largest and most vulnerable minority, are, against their will, victims and participants in this global game. it is therefore also necessary from a purely political point of view to reinforce the roma population. their political participation in elections is important. we have to target roma as voters and as candidates at all political levels. the roma-to-roma approach, as developed by the osce, is another effective way of consolidating the roma’s position. all european organisations should start hiring roma for roma and non­roma related jobs – i have a roma assistant. anti­gypsyism is a shame and a threat to the eu.
the rapporteur. i would like to begin by apologizing to my dutch colleagues for not speaking in dutch but in english, because that is the language of the financial markets. it also has the advantage of being able to address the commissioner in a language he understands. madam president, when the commissioner's predecessor mr bolkestein started his term, he met with a well-prepared, ambitious set of proposals for the internal market for capital. he presented them in 1999 as the financial services action plan fsap. the commissioner, i have the impression that you are less fortunate with the heritage concerning the internal market for services that mr bolkestein left for you when you came here to brussels, and which bears his name, or perhaps an ominous nickname. but that is not our subject for today; we will have plenty of time to discuss this further. i would like to praise mr bolkestein for having diligently steered the fsap through during his term in office. the commissioner, i am very much looking forward to the follow-up plan in the green paper that you are to present next week. in the report before you and in the debates we had in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we take a positive view of the way the fsap has been dealt with, but of course we are aware that many of the intentions laid down in the rules still have to be proved in practice. major attention should be focused on the implementation and enforcement of the almost 40 sets of rules that have been adopted. unfortunately, there were some misunderstandings about my report in the form in which it has been presented to the plenary today. although a broad consensus was reached in committee and we had good compromises, some imperfections slipped in during the committee vote. since they concern the main thrust of the report, i would like to discuss them first. the most annoying mistake is paragraph 2 of the text before the house today. it suggests that we should go along with the plea of some lobbyists and journalists that brussels legislators should commit themselves to a regulatory pause. but that's really not my cup of tea. this paragraph 2 absolutely does not fit into a report that points to so many developments in a dynamic financial market that may pose serious systemic risks and endanger a safe and efficient internal market for financial services. therefore, i am clearly against tying our hands with a moratorium on legislation. we should stay alert and the commission should be very proactive. of course, this new legislation should be thoroughly assessed as to its necessity, its costs and benefits and its wider impact, but less regulation is not always better regulation. let me turn to some other elements of the report, such as the lamfalussy process. with the well-known disclaimers that you are used to from the european parliament, the report is quite positive about the lamfalussy process. i tend to see the level three committees of regulators in particular as allies for the public interest and the protection of consumers and expert users. i note that they are increasingly aware of their important role in harmonising the technical rules and the supervisory practices between regulators in different member states. the himalaya report presented by cesr asks for an improved toolbox. we say in the report before the house today that this is a good starting point for further debate. some important issues have to be resolved in the coming period. then there is european-level supervision. in the report we speak positively about a move towards consolidating supervisors. the industry wants to reduce the need to comply with many different supervisors, but on the other hand i can understand the hesitation of regulatory authorities in host situations to give up their competences and to rely completely on foreign supervisors. that's why i insist on taking a further step. seeing the growth in cross-border activity and the concentration of large players in the financial markets, it is time for integrated supervision at european level, possibly via a two-tier system with european-level supervision for large cross-border players without prejudice to the level playing field between cross-border and local players. not everyone agrees with me on this, but at least in the report we agree that this should be an option that the commission should also consider further. then there is the issue of consumer protection and involvement. here we stress that the protection of consumers and the guaranteed availability of basic financial services to all consumers should remain a basic condition. i do not think that we should aim at complete harmonisation in relation to retail financial products and service provision, because consumer protection is too different in the various member states. in the report i propose looking at the option of a 26th regime for pan-european financial products, such as mortgages or insurance products. they may meet the needs of internationally mobile people to work with the providers they are used to in another member state. mrs berès, the chairwoman of our committee, will speak on the issue of better cooperation in a global setting.
i would like to begin by thanking mrs christa klaß for the good cooperation i have had with her. the committee on agriculture has made two main points. the essential point is, of course - as the previous speakers have said - that the committee on agriculture is of course also in favour of clean water. we must do something about this and we can therefore in principle support the proposals in this groundwater directive. we believe, however, that it is essential to introduce different measurement methods in europe which reflect the differences in climate and which also reflect the differences in soil types. the situation on clay soils is different from that on peat soils and the situation on peat soils is different from that on sand soils, and this can also vary from finland to the boot of italy. that will have to be taken into account when we measure the 50 milligrams. the second point the committee on agriculture wanted to take into account is the existing legislation. as far as nitrates are concerned, there are likely to be two directives in the near future: the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on nitrates. for example, if a farmer in europe follows the groundwater directive and he is below 50 milligrams, with 30 milligrams, for example, then he is still bound by the nitrates directive, and it may be that a farmer with 3 cows per hectare does not comply with the requirements of the nitrates directive but does comply with those of the groundwater directive, because if we measure that nitrate, he is below 50 milligrams. i do not think it makes sense that we should tell that farmer that he should reduce his cattle units per hectare. it's either one or the other. the committee on agriculture has therefore proposed that the need for the nitrates directive be reviewed in 2008. the two amendments on this subject were rejected by the committee on the environment, the liberal group has tabled them again and i would strongly recommend them to you. thirdly - and i am speaking for the liberal group at this last minute, mr president - it is all right to have clean water, but what we have to consider is how much it costs. what are the socioeconomic consequences if we introduce certain legislation? the liberal group has tabled a number of amendments on this point too. i would naturally like to see them adopted. it seems to me absolutely logical that if we introduce directives that does not come at the expense of everything. we need a timetable where everything is realistic and affordable.
president. - in the eleven years that i have been in this parliament, i have not often seen the rapporteur himself present a minority position on a report. i think it is rather strange that mr klaß has done this now. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. i can only emphasize, mr president, that the amendment by the committee on the environment is a positive one for me. groundwater is essentially a national issue. in the treatment of the water framework directive, it was recognised that groundwater should be given a separate treatment. i believe that, from the point of view of subsidiarity, there can be no legal basis for this subsidiary directive other than article 175 (1). groundwater is a natural resource in danger and deserves attention through the exchange of good practices and the promotion of better protection. however, there is no place for rigid european-wide standards. we already know that it is particularly difficult to measure objectively the content of a substance in groundwater for a region, and the difficulty is many times greater for a member state. for example, the chloride concentration can vary from 20 mg/l to more than 10 000 mg/l within a distance of 10 km. finally, mr president, i would like to draw the attention of members to the problem of the discharge ban. amendment no 43 is crucial to this. the way in which drinking water is extracted in some member states, namely by infiltration of surface water, makes it extremely important that no absolute discharge ban is introduced. i therefore ask you to vote against amendment no 43. amendment no 103 by the alde group is acceptable. i am very much looking forward to the vote, mr president, but i cannot guarantee that i will be able to agree to the result. that depends on which amendments are adopted by the members.
so, mr president, there seem to be other lists in circulation, but that maría esther herranz garcía has not taken the trouble to warn me... i hope you don't count that. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs christa klass, for her report. why am i saying thank you? because i know that she had a different opinion on a number of points, but she thought constructively with us to the end and was also willing to support positions that were important to members from other member states. this directive is important because it is about achieving an ecological balance. groundwater is also important for agriculture, industry and drinking water. in the water framework directive we have adopted a river basin-based approach. that also means something for the assessment of the groundwater directive. this means that this directive cannot contain uniform standards for certain substances. it does mean that you have to come up with uniform measurement methods and so on. another point: i have tabled an amendment to item 110. that amendment concerns indirect discharges, article 6 of this directive. what did i mean by that? i come from a province where we have floods on a regular basis. we're making room for the rivers. that means we want to widen that river and we're going to take some of the sediment out and use that for the accumulation. if we give a majority to this water framework directive and especially to the amendment tabled by our green group, the compromise amendment on paragraph 94, that would mean that we would have to pack everything that comes from that river, that we put aside for the safety of that province, of our netherlands, that we would have to wrap it in foil and that would cost 100 million euros just for the small region where i live. that can't be the point, so i'm asking you: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, today we are faced with a major political challenge. we have an obligation to prevent pollution and the depletion of natural resources. in the netherlands, 60% of drinking water comes from groundwater, which is reason enough to prevent pollution as much as possible. we need to set high standards for the quality of our groundwater. but how sharp should the limits be? should we impose it in europe or leave it to the member states? in the netherlands there is a certain amount of concern about european rules. the impact of european rules is often felt by farmers, builders and businesses. air quality, fertiliser, nature protection, all directives with far-reaching implications and difficult to explain to someone whose building project is blocked by abstract european rules. "there you have that annoying europe again". the labour party's position is clear: we do not want common limits in groundwater. harmonised limit values are not useful because the chemical composition of groundwater varies widely between member states due to natural conditions. excessively strict limits may lead to the prohibition of human activities in certain areas. the pvda does not want the netherlands to be closed down, and we do not see political support for unnecessarily intrusive rules. that is why we are against amendments nos 111 and 112. but rest assured, the labour party is as green as ever. we do stand behind a powerful common standard of conduct. prevent or reduce the introduction of pollutants into groundwater. this means that any contamination of groundwater with a number of well-defined substances is unacceptable. we also want to see a serious effort made to implement the polluter pays principle. my amendment to convert the cost of pollution by weed killers into a levy has found broad support. and that's good. because many municipalities find manual weeding too expensive. but the cost of pollution has not been included in the chemical controls so far. if that happens, the use of harmful substances will decrease. finally, i would like to draw attention to a few amendments relating to nitrates and the manure problem. i cannot understand why, at a time when the nitrates directive is being worked on in various member states, a message is being sent that it may be superfluous. we therefore do not support these amendments and we will gladly support amendment no 110 by mr oomen-ruijten.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts. it has been a good one from the start, but i also note that a report is now being tabled through the committee on the environment, which is tightening up the commission's original proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. i am referring to amendments nos 43, 103 and 94. i wonder how parliament intends to deal with this. if it accepts these amendments, it will again impose a heavier burden, a heavier cost, particularly for european agriculture and horticulture. and, don't get me wrong, he's interested in clean water. fortunately, the proposal also leaves ample room for subsidiarity. but it cannot be denied that, at a time when the budget for european agricultural policy is being reduced and the markets are becoming freer, the cost price of european agriculture and horticulture is being further increased by the text in question. it is not possible for this parliament to increase the burden on the one hand and to further liberalise the markets on the other, because it puts the european countryside in an impossible position. i would strongly urge the house not to tighten up the commission's proposal any further and to vote against amendments nos 43 and 94, and i would also like to express my support for the amendment by mr oomen-ruijten, amendment no 110, which would make the operation of this groundwater directive considerably easier in relation to river policy in europe.
i would like to say a few words on behalf of the alde group on this excellent report by mrs handzlik and i would also like to thank her. we visited her companies with the internal market committee and i think she is the example of how the new member states think about the internal market and i think this is also reflected and used in her report. i gotta hand it to you. i want to make a comment on that. the new member states have made great sacrifices to meet the conditions of europe. they have been wearing their belts for years and, as this report shows, have often even adopted the acquis communautaire better than many of the old member states. it would therefore be quite nice if the european commission were given more sanctions to enforce the implementation of directives, because that will only encourage, improve and optimise the free market. the single market has brought us economic prosperity, and that economic prosperity in turn has brought us political stability and peace, and i think that is why it was decided at an early stage to add a large number of new member states to the european union. i am glad that mrs gebhardt has broadened the discussion a little bit with regard to the services directive, because services are one of the most important areas which have not yet been liberalised. i think that we need to have a good debate to get a very good result for this directive on services. i think that the debate that has been held so far sends a very bad signal to the new member states, because it would be very bad if we were to send the message to the new member states: the old member states are very keen to add new markets, but competition, ho ho! we liberals believe that competition creates innovation and innovation creates new jobs and we cannot keep cheap labour in europe, it is going to china and unfortunately we have to admit that, so i think that innovative value-added jobs are good for the internal market and i hope that in this respect we can finish the services directive in a positive way.
mr president, i wish to table two oral amendments to add two paragraphs to the resolution. as all five groups supported these important paragraphs, there should not be a problem. the text of those paragraphs should be on your desks, but, if you prefer, i could read them to the house.
mr president, i thought there were no illiterate people here but i will obey the rules. the first paragraph is: ‘18a. welcomes the formation of the european roma and travellers forum, and the work of groups within parliament focused on roma and minority issues; recognises the importance of cooperation with such bodies when creating roma policies in europe;’ the second paragraph is: ‘20a. welcomes the decade of roma inclusion initiative to which five member states and candidate countries are signatories and calls on the commission to work in cohesion with those governments concerned to align relevant eu programme funding to realise this initiative;’.
rapporteur.– mr president, there are two proposed additions to paragraph 25. we have to vote first on amendment 4 by the verts/ale group and then on the oral amendment by mr purvis to take the original paragraph 26 also as an addition to paragraph 25.
rapporteur.– mr president, i have an oral amendment. it is to change the wording relating to ‘banking’ as follows: ‘requests that the commission provide a comprehensive study of retail financial services with a special emphasis on banking services in the various member states’. this puts the emphasis on banking, but does not restrict the study to banking services only.
rapporteur.– mr president, this is also an oral amendment and it is to replace the words ‘regulated competition’ with ‘fair competition’.
in writing. there is a great deal of criticism within my gue/ngl group of this proposal because it is selective. this criticism has caused some of my colleagues in the group to vote against it. no one denied that it contains many valid comments on human rights abuses outside the european union, but it is striking that countries such as israel, turkey and the colombian government are spared. on the other hand, there is criticism of cuba, venezuela and the colombian guerrilla movements. in venezuela, where the majority of the media is controlled by the opposition, there is a lack of press freedom. this approach creates the impression that allies can never make mistakes and that others can never do well. both the left and the right have a long tradition of selectivity in their defense of human rights, with a lack of human rights being particularly important as an argument against a political opponent. let us stop doing that and also take seriously the criticism of the mistakes of those for whom we have sympathy instead of trivializing them. if the right wing had not just voted against the improved eu policy in the face of the us isolation of cuba, i would have voted along with scandinavian and german colleagues despite the criticism.
in writing. only 7 of the 25 eu member states have a population larger than the roma population group as a whole in the current and future territory of the eu. they are a stateless people and are everywhere considered a minority, although there are communities in which they are the majority. isolation and discrimination have left many roma as outsiders, with low educational levels that contribute to unemployment and behaviour that easily annoys others. we have a long history of driving these people from one state to another and denying them citizenship rights because their forced relocation can make them re-entry as foreigners. individuals may have the opportunity to integrate and be accepted by the majority, but the group as a whole does not. not only are there problems in some of the new member states that joined in 2004 and in the two countries that join in 2007, but also in the old member states, greece and italy, for example. newcomers are denied housing, education and income, so that these people can only survive by committing criminal acts. that must really improve after the 90% majority for this resolution.
mr president, i would like to remind this house of the date of 17 may next week, the international day against homophobia. i would like to call on this house and on all members to support this initiative wholeheartedly, because unfortunately it is still the case today that not all homosexuals in europe enjoy the fundamental rights of europe. last weekend in amsterdam, the capital of tolerance and freedom, a man was beaten by seven cowards just for walking hand in hand with the person he loved. these days we remember all the victims of the war in europe. among them are many homosexuals who were persecuted and killed because of their sexual orientation. there are even countries that still do not recognize this. so i would like to call on all members to remember these people next week as well.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. that is one of the things we are talking about in this directive, both in the original commission proposal and, of course, in what is now before us: the council's common position. the bathing water directive dates from 1976 and since then a lot has changed, not only in thinking about the environment, but also about what exactly, at what level and how to regulate. of course, one can ask, as i have done, whether it is still necessary to define at european level the standards to which bathing water and water on the coasts and in lakes in the european union must conform, whether we should establish that at european level and whether european action in this area brings added value. this parliament decided at first reading that this is the case, but, more importantly, the member states have done the same. the member states too, of which you might say: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of bathing water is not compromised. who are we to say that this is not so? why do governments choose the new bathing water directive? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the old directive was based on monitoring and measurement rather than proactive and prudent management of bathing water. the commission's proposal, i think, was very right to change this. the new directive must be workable, flexible and focused on bathing water management and deregulation, and certainly less administrative. for example, measurements should be more flexible: if the bathing water in a particular location has been clean for years, you should be able to measure less. that is what the commission proposed and that is what parliament has adopted and then the council, so that is absolutely progress. the directive is also popular with the general public, which is not unimportant in this age of referenda. it is one of the most familiar directives among the citizens of europe, and every year they await the new figures that come out. it has also been a successful directive, with only 60% of bathing water a decade ago and 95% now. that's very good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of water is not compromised. i once took the test and looked at a random place in europe, where a leading member of the commission comes from, namely athens, to see what the bathing water quality is like there. we did some research on the internet this afternoon, but unfortunately we couldn't get any further than the quality of the year 2003 as the most recent data. of course, that does not say whether it is still safe to swim in athens or not. it is quite possible that this information could be found on the website of the greek ministry of health and welfare, but then i would not be able to read it because the information is in greek. that is why parliament says: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the moment, the information is lagging behind and is only difficult to find on the internet, apart from the fact that, i hope, most tourists do not take their laptops on holiday or at least do not take them to the beach. the health risk is one in eight according to the standards of the old directive. one in eight swimmers is at risk of getting sick by current standards. these health risks should not be underestimated: these include gastrointestinal disorders, skin, eye and respiratory diseases and inflammation of the external auditory canal. the standards proposed by the commission and the environment committee of the european parliament make one in twenty swimmers sick, perhaps still too many, but still a step forward, whereas the common position of the council is satisfied with one in nine. i understand the governments' position: they want the system to be affordable. i think that the european parliament should also take this into account and i regret that there was no substantial agreement between the council and parliament at second reading. there are a number of very interesting amendments, mr president. as regards the removal of the 'acceptable' category or its adjustment, i believe that the adoption of amendments of this kind would at least put us in a good position as parliament in conciliation to come to a solution with the council that is better for swimmers, better for consumers, that we can say: yes, the quality of bathing water is really improving significantly, as the european commission wanted in its original proposal. on the other hand, we must also find a solution where we can say: yes, it's also making governments better, it's making it more workable, it's deregulating, and it's also affordable, because that's an important point, of course. it is also for this reason that i think we should not bring recreational waters under this directive, but perhaps we should do so in the future. i think that this is a good subject to discuss, but i do not think that this is the right time to bring it up in this way. one last note: i have noticed that the commission has attached a statement to the council's position, which is somewhat grating. you will certainly want to continue to look at values in the future. i think that's very useful, because we have to keep adjusting, of course, in the future. i hope you will do so in accordance with the ordinary procedure and in consultation with this parliament.
president. - the debate on subsidiarity was held at first reading, so i shall not go into it. i had hoped that the revision of the bathing water directive would have brought us closer to cleaner bathing water. the commission's original proposal provided a good impetus for this. the first reading of the report by the committee on budgets was therefore a very positive one. the position adopted by the council in adopting the common position is not, however, a positive one. i do not think that this view can be called a common one. the commission's proposal is not a new one. i particularly disapprove of the lowering of the level of ambition. all sorts of cosmetic measures have been taken to make the whole thing look nice, including the introduction of a new category for "acceptable" bathing water. but that does not take away the impression that there was little enthusiasm in the council for a tightening up of the standards. the council's distinction between salt and fresh water is also motivated by the desire to reach a compromise within the council. but the arguments put forward have not convinced me of the scientific basis for this. i shall therefore support the amendments to reverse this. i can also support the removal of the category 'acceptable'. i would also accept amendment no 36 by the ppe-de group as a compromise. the re-introduction of the table of parameters - amendment no 29 - is also a good thing and deserves our support. as we are on this subject, i would like to ask the council what it thinks of the way in which the old 1976 bathing water directive has been implemented. if i look at the situation in the european union in 2003 - the latest year available - we see that about 95% of bathing waters comply with the mandatory standards and about 80% with the guide values. the commission has already proposed new standards for 80% of bathing water, without any additional work being required. why is the council so opposed to better protection for swimmers? we all know that the current directive no longer meets the requirements of the times, but i do think that the new directive should also raise the bar a little bit. that is the only correct way to go, for the benefit of the swimmers. i would like to conclude by wishing the rapporteur a lot of strength. i think he's done an excellent job so far. let us hope that the council will also see this and that conciliation can be avoided.
president. - i also congratulate mr maaten on his work. i would like to ask all members and the commission to maintain the substance of the proposal as it was presented. and that core is a high level of protection through stringent standards for good and even excellent bathing water. the commission is basing itself on research by the world health organization, but the council is very cynical in its common position. the standards are strict and threaten to close swimming pools, but by complying with the standards they do not have to close. we must remember that these are health standards and that you cannot get away with it. the european swimmer simply wants to know whether the water is safe for him or herself and especially for his or her children. swimmers are entitled to that clarity, and what do you need a pool with "acceptable" swimming water for? is that safe or not? that is why we shall vote against the lowering of standards. the pvda is putting the swimmer at the centre of the debate. we do not see the need to extend the scope of the directive to other forms of recreation. the who standards are based on swimmers, not canoeists or sailors who accidentally fall off their boat. we also want practical and enforceable legislation that does not make things unnecessarily complicated.
i am not aware of any other rapporteur who has been in the hands of the shadow rapporteurs of this parliament, but nevertheless, jules, as a dutchman, i can say that we have worked very well together again, because we share the concerns of a country like the netherlands. we have designated some 600 bathing waters in the netherlands, and they must be of good quality and good for the environment and health, and people must also be able to enjoy them. we all think that is very important and at the same time we say that some of the requirements which were touched upon by the environment committee actually went too far and did not add or would not add anything as an extra protection for human health. so, mr president, we have shared the concerns with the rapporteur, but i have a lot of confidence at the moment, a few more concerns too, but still a lot of confidence that we will get out of this tomorrow. the initially planned extension of bathing water to recreational water is not going ahead and this is, i think we agree with the majority, a win-win. secondly, there is the issue of the 'acceptable' quality of bathing water. there are people in this house who want bathing water to be of very good quality right away, but, mr president, how can that be done with a national park, a national landscape? i know that in nature reserves, the feces of birds, for example, are such a diffuse source of pollution that you can never get good quality bathing water, that it can never remain "acceptable". i therefore also think that we should reject a second set of amendments which we are voting on tomorrow, which would remove the category 'acceptable'. finally, mr president, i am also concerned about amendment no 42 by the greens. what do the greens say? once a bathing water has been selected, you may not remove it from the list, even if you know that it will never meet the quality requirements again. mr president, that is ridiculous, and i hope no one in this house will approve.
the rapporteur. - mr president, as is well known, the terrorist attacks in the usa and spain, as well as the increase in crime in general, have led to the adoption of all kinds of security measures in europe. commissioner barrot just said it. the airports were the first to be affected, and now, of course, the seaports are also affected. european ports are essential links in the transport chain, linking trade and passenger flows by sea and by land. they are also often the hub for the transshipment of dangerous goods for major chemical and petrochemical production centres and are located near cities. terrorist attacks in ports can therefore lead to serious disruptions of transport systems, create a domino effect and cause harm to people in ports and to nearby residents. action was simply a requirement. in addition, it is better to settle this matter ourselves than to be confronted unsolicitedly by american inspection teams, to name but a few. commissioner barrot has just said: firstly, the international ship and port facility security code, or isps code, was converted into eu binding rules by means of a regulation, namely regulation 725. however, this is not all-inclusive. it de facto only regulates the security of the wet part of the port and so in 2004 an additional directive was introduced to regulate the security of the entire port area. that is the directive on the table this morning and which we are going to vote on later today. i would like to focus on two of the key issues which i have advocated as rapporteur. mr barrot has just dealt extensively with a few other matters. the two points i want to discuss relate to ensuring a level playing field in the european union. firstly, the financial basis of the proposal. who's paying what? the differences between some member states are considerable. in the context of a level playing field, i think this is absolutely undesirable. the final agreement therefore calls on the commission to present a study on the distribution of costs between public authorities, port authorities and industry as soon as possible and by 30 june 2006 at the latest. under no circumstances should the additional security measures lead to distortions of competition. secondly, i have been working towards a uniform interpretation and harmonised application of the rules in all member states. it is not possible, of course, that in one member state an extra lock is accepted while in the other member states five guards and six cameras are made compulsory. i'm exaggerating, of course, but still. i have therefore called for a bit of meta-monitoring by the european commission. this was a difficult point in the negotiations, particularly for the council. this is surprising to me, because it is the member states who complain most about the lack of a level playing field, but in the end it is all good. we have found a formulation which is acceptable to all concerned and which gives the commission sufficient resources to carry out the necessary meta-monitoring. i have also tried as rapporteur not to create an extra bureaucratic institution and proposals to do so have been dropped. i am, of course, pleased to inform you that i have reached agreement very recently with my shadow rapporteurs, the council and the commission. this compromise is formed by amendments nos 13 to 75, which include the ppe-de group, the pse group, the greens/efa group and my own group, as well as the council and the commission. if we actually accept this compromise later today, the directive can be completed at first reading. the amendments nos 10, 11 and 12 tabled by the uen group seem to me to be sympathetic, but i would still recommend that you vote against them. they failed to do so at an earlier stage in the committee on transport and tourism. the burden of these amendments has already been covered elsewhere or would lead to an unnecessary christmas tree effect. the agreement now before us is a very workable compromise for all parties involved in the implementation of the measures. a smooth conclusion at first reading is therefore very much desirable. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the luxembourg presidency for their commitment and cooperation. i have appreciated it immensely.
the security of vulnerable places, such as ports, is essential for society, and this applies both to the ship-wall relationship and to the rest of the port. ports are not identical in size, location, character and organisation. the member states are rightly left to determine for themselves the usefulness of these rules. i welcome the fact that the member states are able to implement these rules in the most appropriate way. the uniform rules for all ports would reduce the diversity and increase costs. a second important point is the enforcement of these rules. experience elsewhere teaches that enforcement is easier said than done. limited manpower is not an ingredient for optimal inspection. it is therefore appropriate that the commission should monitor the implementation of this directive with a watchful eye. finally, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the succinct way in which he has managed to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion, by adhering to the main points in consultation with the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note that the opportunity to deal with this subject in the social dialogue has been missed. otherwise we would not have had to do it in the european parliament. thirdly, i note that there are a great many myths surrounding this subject, which have led to controversy, including, i do not want to hide this, within my own group. i want to debunk each and every one of those myths. first, flexibility. this is the key. it is said that lisbon and flexibility are no longer possible with this legislation. this is incorrect, because the reference period for measuring the 48 hours is extended from 4 to 12 months. secondly, mr president, there is the administrative burden. i hear that from the employers. then i ask: where do we change this legislation? we are changing only on the flexibility side and secondly to comply with a ruling of the court. thirdly, subsidiarity. we leave it to the member states at this stage to decide whether and how much to pay for the so-called waiting or sleeping hours during attendance services, and if so, whether and how much to count. we leave that to the social partners and the member states. i think these decisions are theirs, too. finally, i would like to thank mr cercas and mr silva peneda for their efforts to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected in this text.
i would like to thank mr florenz and mr wijkman for having initiated this debate. commissioner, global warming is happening much faster than we thought. we are faced with the dual task of adapting to climate change while at the same time limiting climate change. in the face of this enormous challenge, the outcome of the climate conference in buenos aires was particularly disappointing. it is of course good that the kyoto process was just being kept on track by a seminar. and of course it is good that the eu has got its way and that the seminar in bonn next week will also be looking to the future, but this is a shameful result. we must recognize that the eu has become increasingly isolated. the urgency felt in europe is not felt in other parts of the world. the eu will have to be constructive in bonn, to build a much closer international coalition, and good, productive and substantiated proposals will have to be put on the table. commissioner, i would like to put to you four points which we believe can help to create a constructive international coalition. firstly, we must do much more work on adaptation and aid for adaptation, especially for developing countries. adaptation is not easy, but aid must not be limited to major disaster relief. the change in the way of life is a major one and it requires credible programmes. secondly, the transfer of technology. mr wijkman has already spoken about it. we must abandon our ideological reservations about the clean development mechanism and instead invest fully in technology transfer. we must also carry out further research and development in the field of environmental technology. i would like to return to this in the debate on the seventh framework programme for research. thirdly, we will have to focus much less on the national approach, the objectives per country. we must put more emphasis on sectoral objectives. in the discussions we had as a parliamentary delegation in buenos aires, a sectoral approach emerged as a viable way forward. we will have to sit down with the steel, cement and paper industries. i believe that aviation is a sector which should be given priority. competition in all these sectors is global, so global objectives based on the best available technology are obvious. a sectoral approach is also very much in line with our lisbon strategy, which was revised at the last spring summit. finally, although this is a little more controversial, i would like to draw your attention to the role that the wto can play. the european union should open the discussion on trade measures against countries that do not meet their climate commitment. green trade policy is not directed against developing countries, but against the richer countries, and that can in turn bring support from developing countries. commissioner, we expect the european union to have an ambitious international climate policy and to have the widest possible international support among other countries, industry and citizens. good luck in bonn.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glinne, for his report, and also for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. four members of our group were guests at the ipcc climate conference in la réunion in february. there we were shocked by the conclusions of the scientists assembled there. we need all the measures mentioned in the resolution, and even then we are not getting the problem of climate change off the ground. even with all the possible efforts that will be made under kyoto until 2050, the earth will warm by two degrees and sea levels will rise by half a meter. i come from the netherlands, the low countries, so you can imagine that i am very concerned about that. a sea level rise of half a meter means that large parts of my country will be submerged without intervention. the current coastline will disappear. the hague is disappearing into the sea, and with it the embassies of all the countries represented here today. our government buildings, the international court of justice, the yugoslav tribunal and the palace of our queen. president, we are a republican party, but we do not want to achieve our goals by flooding the royal palace. fortunately, the netherlands has the technical means to prevent this, but many other countries do not. whole coastal areas will disappear anyway. we must prepare for this and i therefore call on the commission to develop a vision of this. it can start doing so at the upcoming seminar with government experts. i would ask the commission to at least stick to its own measures and directives, such as those on air quality. now that these measures are beginning to have practical effects in a number of member states, resistance will increase from some member states or sectors and calls for moderation will be made. we are not in favour of that and we ask you to be firm and we also ask parliament and the council to be firm. do not opt for a leap forward, do not opt for more nuclear energy, but for the development of all possible alternatives, and stick to the text of the resolution so that the eu can continue to play its leading role.
mr president, firstly, i am very pleased to hear that the commission will not only protect but also actively promote fundamental rights. that is a step forward. i have a precise question on passenger name records – they are also mentioned in the action plan – and more specifically in relation to the incident with the klm plane one month ago. i have put a written question to the european commission. i also raised the matter orally in the debate at the april part-session, but i have not received a reply to date. we may be looking at an infringement of the agreement between the european union and the united states, so it is urgent that we receive a reply. i wonder whether commissioner frattini could give us some indications of the direction in which the reply may go.
president, commissioner, i am delighted that you have mentioned me, but we have been in trialogue with a whole party and we have reached agreement. your people have also listened carefully to what was possible and have finally adopted some of it, without adhering to the firm principles on which the commission normally stands. thank you for that. mr whitehead, our president, has already indicated that mr zappalà has been a strategist. i sometimes saw similarities with caesar, who could also postpone battles, postpone, postpone. i thought: i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, and i would like to thank him for the excellent work he has done. sorry i didn't see that. nothing but compliments and praise. the definition is clear. i think that the professional card proposed by mr gebhardt in the first round is a good addition to clarify the diplomas, and with the modern techniques. what i thought was very important, and the commission and the council have also taken up this point, is that there should at least be a liability regime, particularly for the medical professions, because it is not possible for you to work temporarily somewhere and then escape all the disciplinary rules and liability because you are temporarily employed. so, hats off to all those who have contributed to this, i think, fantastic directive, a cornerstone of the internal market, which offers opportunities for the future, especially to young people, and which, as i think is also important, still gives women in particular the opportunity, even after they have started a family, to make their vocational training more valuable in the market later on through a good job. it is good that we are talking about mutual recognition and, in connection with the principle of the country of origin, i think that, if we do not make a condition, we are talking about the same definition. the directive does not impose any conditions, because the training is provided in the country of origin. call it a license . the european union has a number of initiatives to promote the integration of young people into the labour market. i think this is worth discussing. i think it is very important that the commission has taken this up and that there is now a duty to state reasons when consultations are held, because a duty to state reasons, mr president, is very important to achieve a legally coherent europe, but above all to achieve a europe that is democratically strengthened. i hope that today, with this directive, we have shown and sent a very clear signal that we are all prepared to work towards a stronger and more prosperous europe. i would also like to thank our chairmen, mr gargani, the previous chairman, and mr whitehead, for their patience with this directive. i would also like to thank mr zappalà in particular.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr herranz garcía, for her clear position and i would also like to compliment our commissioner for agriculture, because in all the discussions about what we want, i must say that she is right in the discussion about the financial perspectives and the question of the cofinancing of the agricultural policy, and that in itself is worthy of a compliment. that also means that it represents at least one sector in europe which wants to keep it going. i also welcome her comments on the need for a proper study, an impact study on the fruit and vegetable sector, to be able to choose a good approach that is more market-oriented, and also her comments on the requirement that products from europe should be properly labelled so that it is clear where they come from. that seems to me to be a good approach in itself. at the same time, i must make a small critical remark, because i have to say on the basis of the impact study that in europe, especially after the enlargement of the union, it has not become easier for the fruit and vegetable growers in europe, who generally work without subsidies and with a market orientation, to stay afloat. the large concentration on the demand side, supermarkets, is not followed by a strengthening of producer groups in the sector itself. if the sector is to survive in europe, it must be able to operate under the conditions imposed on imported products. labelling is very important in this respect and the commission should pay more attention to this in future plans. the second point is: it is not to be denied that many growers in the new countries, the ten new member states, are having difficulty integrating into the european market. it is essential that this be tackled more vigorously, through the creation of product groups and by ensuring that growers in the new countries can also gain market power vis-à-vis large supermarket concentrations. the third point is that it is precisely the reduction of bureaucracy that can ensure that the money for these funds is spent properly. it is unacceptable that at this moment 25% of the money is left unused. it is very important that the commission should act quickly to ensure that the money can be spent. if it cannot go directly to producer groups, then the budget that remains, given the heavy frost damage in large parts of europe and other natural disasters, i am thinking of drought, may well be spent on the sector, to ensure that it survives in difficult times. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for their constructive attitude.
mr president, in his previous life mr wolfowitz was rather one-sided and known to us as a hardliner, now he has become president of the world bank, a multilateral development institution. this is a miracle of money laundering, to put it in monetary terms. there is also a painful side to europe. as i said earlier, there are new procedures which we can influence. a few phone calls from the us were enough to get him appointed. we did not agree in advance on a joint candidate, as we did with lami for the wto. we were late to the world bank and we were not united. i think that is the weak point - this has been the subject of a fair report from the council and the commission. it is not just a question of a joint candidate, of course, but also of policy. everyone knows that when it comes to the washington consensus, the international, multilateral financial institutions have lines and priorities which are often at odds with the development and poverty policies that we in europe would like to see internationally. now it doesn't have to be one or the other, you need balance. to achieve this balance and to put social objectives, poverty reduction and the millennium development goals at the centre of the world bank's work, we need to speak with one voice. this requires joint action. i agree with what was just said: the new constitution may give us more opportunities and a mandate to act as europe in these institutions and speak with one voice. it 's a big deal . we are providing 60% of the loans on favourable terms and have a much higher voting power, but at the same time we are virtually absent. we would never tolerate that in the commercial world. i think that's the crux of the matter. consistency is also needed. in africa, for example, the world bank is active in the priority initiative on education. the commission does not want to participate in this, however, because the country strategy papers for this area provide for roads and infrastructure and not education. we are therefore not delivering, while we are here in parliament crying out for coherent, joint action. so there's a problem on both sides. can the council and the commission reconsider whether the new constitution does not allow for the world bank to take a lead, at least in political and economic terms? we must also be in a stronger position than we are now in terms of the way we work together. the position is already too sad. neither the council nor the commission wants to do that. both of them spoke with great conviction and sounded sad. let us go cheerfully to the new time.
i think that the commissioner should be allowed to speak before he does, because i have heard two dates for the presidential elections in kyrgyzstan which i believe are old: june 10 and 18. as far as i know, the presidential elections are on july 10. before the parliamentary debate begins, i think it would be good if, from the council or the commission ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president).
i think we will soon agree on this: the developments in kyrgyzstan are putting the region's whole face to the test and are leading us to debate what we should do with central asia, what the interests of the european union are and what we can do to improve the situation there and increase stability in the region. the development in kyrgyzstan is in itself a welcome one. there are striking similarities with what we experienced in ukraine. at the same time, we must recognize that what happened in kyrgyzstan was not, of course, an orange revolution, and we must wait to see how developments in that country will proceed, particularly on the basis of the fair and free elections that must be held there. as regards the elections, the european union and the osce must play a central role in the observation of the elections so that the people of kyrgyzstan can be sure that the elections were fair and that there is a legitimate government that can contribute to the development of the country. if all this turns out to be positive, we think that the european union should also consider how it can help a country like kyrgyzstan in its new situation. this will also have a positive impact on the other countries in the region. i shall not go into a long analysis of the situation in uzbekistan and the other countries of central asia, but there are also major problems in the neighbouring countries of kyrgyzstan which the european union should be concerned about. this is also our main question to the commission: we have a strategy for russia and we have the new neighbourhood policy for a lot of countries, but what are we actually doing with central asia? what initiatives can we expect in the coming years, aimed in part at supporting developments in kyrgyzstan? for us, it is not just a question of securing energy supplies, but also of whether we can strengthen ties with these countries and how we can achieve a certain europeanisation of central asia in terms of the dissemination and establishment of the values we share in the european union, the council of europe and the osce. we hope that the commission and the council will take further steps in this respect.
president. - mr president, these days we in europe are celebrating the liberation of nazi germany by the allies. many europeans will do so with mixed feelings. the abolition of the german yoke opened the way to decades of oppression by the soviet union, and that applies to central asia as well. last month, kyrgyzstan got rid of an authoritarian leader after a fraudulent election. both the rulers and the people are afraid of the danger that muslim extremists will take advantage of the politically unstable situation. the whole of the central asian region is threatened by islamic terrorist organizations, such as hizb ut-tahrir, which is seeking a world government of islam. it is therefore right that the region should counteract this radicalisation of islam in the fight against international terrorism. unfortunately, the authoritarian regimes in the region do not use the appropriate means to do this. this has led, among other things, to numerous problems in the area of religious freedom in these countries. the fact that the central asian governments are trying to keep a lid on the radicalisation of islam is justified. i think that it is going too far to require that the christian churches should also be registered with the authorities. from that angle, there's no need to fear attack. regularly we hear that both registered and unregistered christian congregations have faced great problems, even persecution. i'm only pointing to one case. in kazakhstan, valery pak of the unregistered kyzyl-orda baptist church has been threatened and persecuted for years. this has to stop. the constitutional right to freedom of religion is recognized in all central asian countries. i call on the council and the commission to support these countries in their fight against muslim fundamentalism, but also to address them on the problems of religious freedom, the registration of churches and in particular the unregistered baptist congregations and abuses such as the treatment of valery pak.
i am glad, mr president, that the commission has corrected the misunderstanding about the council's communication on the date of the elections: it is the 10th of july, so congratulations to the commission, which was better informed. i would like to join my colleague, the chairman of the delegation for central asia, who has already said that we should avoid comparing the situation in kyrgyzstan with that in ukraine. it will be seen in time whether this is the same revolution or whether a number of regents have set in motion a different process. the situation in kyrgyzstan is fundamentally different: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in the community. this does not mean that the european union should not invest in central asia. there is too little investment at the moment, and it is striking that the two poorest countries, mongolia - a tribute to this country which has no problems in the field of democracy and human rights - and kyrgyzstan, have been doing the best until recently. now that there's a revolution in kyrgyzstan, we have to take advantage of it. i am happy with the commission's 25 million, but it seems to me a little on the thin side. in the short term, however, the european union's mission is as follows. the council and the commission, together with parliament, i invite them to invest in the elections, by sending a strong delegation of observers on 10 july and supporting the osce, to ensure that the elections go smoothly. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the legislative process. the european union must also invest more in education and economic cooperation, because it is astonishing that most of the foreign investment in education is now coming from fundamentalist islamic groups. we can't keep doing this. it is a challenge for europe to invest more in kyrgyzstan, particularly in the fields of training and economic cooperation. this also requires good free trade agreements. i would like to make another critical remark about the region. i would like to know what the commission intends to do about the growing repression in kazakhstan, including the recent closure of the main opposition newspaper "republika" and the imprisonment of the journalist petrosyeva in russia at the request of the kazakh authorities.
in writing. the european commission's proposal to amend the working time directive will mean a real deterioration for millions of workers in europe the opt-out - remains in place despite evidence that it leads to longer working weeks and an attack on workers' health this opt-out must be removed as soon as possible, preferably by 2008. cercas' compromise to end the opt-out has my support extending the reference period from four months to a year with peaks of 65 hours a week is a feudal 19th century phenomenon, or so we thought. that is why we have to stick to a reference period of four months. finally, the court of justice of the european union's ruling on attendance services should be followed. the commission is unilaterally responding to the wish of companies to make further flexibility. in fact, the maximum 48-hour working week we know today is already archaic. the current working week is around 40 hours and the vast majority of employees want even a shorter working week. i therefore call for a european standard of working hours to bring about a further redistribution of work and a better integration of work, family, care and education.
in writing. the vvd delegation, following the adoption of amendment no 10, intends to vote against the amended commission proposal on the organization of working time. the vvd delegation believes that the european requirement that all attendance, including watch and sleeping hours, should be considered as working time is evidence of brussels' involvement. this will only further erode support for europe at a time when it is precisely needed.
president. - i think that we as members of this house have a duty to know exactly when the debate is to begin and there is no excuse for absence. we have enough resources to see when we can be present at a debate here. i should also like to say that it is not very often that the commission answers my pertinent questions, so i am not really very interested in the commission's position. - i'll see you. mr president, i have noted with a mix of surprise and amusement the nervous tone of the question put by mr leinen. the fear of an outspoken supporter of the constitution is expressed here that one of the most striking innovations of this constitution, namely the arrival of a european foreign minister, will prove to be the intergovernmental trojan horse. this minister and his civil service, the european external action service, now seem to be causing doubts among the defenders of his arrival. that's very late. the commission has already made it clear in its communication of 6 may that it will not accept the creation of a single telephone number. i can recommend that article to all of you. it is a question of what will be said when the telephone rings. once again the european union is making the classic mistake of simply taking institutional measures to deal with the lack of political agreement. a fair analysis of these institutional measures shows that the much-praised but very unfortunate construction of the double-hat disrupts the institutional balance between the european institutions. the arrival of a european foreign minister is contrary to the important principle that the various institutions operate independently of each other. the seventh paragraph of article i-26 states that members of the commission may not receive instructions from any government, institution, body or agency. this provision does not seem to apply to the future vice-president of the commission. i challenge all supporters of this new position to refute it now. not only this minister, but also the european external action service will be a constant source of interinstitutional tension, not to mention the financing of the civil service and relations with national diplomacy. we have also had a very good hearing on this subject, with many questions. the position of mr leinen is, however, a mere child's play compared with the athletic acrobatics which the future minister and head of the external service will have to perform. mr president, as a fervent opponent of this constitutional treaty, i hope that it will fail in france, and in my country too. if not, we will continue to follow this dangerous adventure of the european union closely.
i am speaking on behalf of the pse group. the european external action service, which is being set up in the wake of the european constitution, is of enormous importance to us. the establishment of this service is an important step for us towards a europe that speaks with one voice in the world and towards a more effective and coherent role for europe in the world. my contribution is about the importance of the policy area of development cooperation as one of the legs, a big leg, on which the european union's external relations policy is based. two concepts are very central to this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. self-employed development cooperation is an autonomous area within the very wide range of external relations. this position is reinforced in the new european constitution, since development cooperation and humanitarian aid are separate objectives with their own legal basis. these are community policies and the commission and parliament have an important role to play. it is of the utmost importance that that responsibility also remains with both of them. but at the same time, coordination between the different components of foreign policy must be improved. we are in favour of placing this service under the commission, with the guarantee that the council will determine the implementation of intergovernmental powers. coordination between the various components is necessary for a coherent policy, which is an explicit mandate in the constitution - and indeed in the maastricht treaty. the eu's external relations policy should be coherent and consistent with the objectives of the union's external relations policy. we must also avoid duplication of effort. that's a waste of time and money. so the forces are joining forces, including on the spot. finally, i would add that the funding of this service should not be at the expense of the existing foreign policy budgets and the achievement of the millennium goals. the european external action service is an important new element in european foreign policy, which we must carefully shape, respecting the provisions of the constitution, including the rights of the european parliament. it is of the utmost importance that the community model in this field is respected and that the commission retains its role as policy implementer.
the doha development round negotiations are designed to boost the economies of developing countries and give them a fair place in the world economy. they are aimed at a fairer distribution of the world. to combat poverty in the world, we have agreed on the so-called millennium development goals. good trading conditions for developing countries can make a major contribution to this. that must be our goal in hong kong. i want to touch on a few points. some of them have already been mentioned by the commissioner. in our trade policy we should be able to distinguish more clearly between the various developing countries. the differences between them are too great for a uniform framework. there are strong and weak, large and small economies. there are countries with a lot of production and growth opportunities and countries with few of them. we need to be able to tailor policies more. the special and differential treatment of developing countries should therefore be a major focus of the discussions in hong kong. there has been much talk about the consequences of the hong kong agreements for the trade advantages granted to the developing countries. there is a fear of erosion. i ask the commissioner to inform the european parliament after the negotiations whether erosion has occurred. thirdly: it is clear that the developing countries are still hardly able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered. hence my next point: the importance of capacity building and technical assistance. we must also work hard to strengthen the export and trade capacity of the countries. it is also important to try to encourage countries that depend on one or two export products to derive their income from a diversity of products. then there are export subsidies. the commissioner's already been on it. the adverse effects of this on local markets are well known. we must urgently work on a timetable for the elimination of export subsidies. it is a pity that no end date is given in the text. in conclusion: the european union has an important role to play in hong kong. we all know how the negotiations in cancun went. this can't happen again. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good report and the good cooperation.
the problems of the global textile industry divide europe into a northern and a southern camp. in short, the arrival of cheaper textile imports is in direct competition with the maintenance of the domestic textile sector. although i understand that commissioner mandelson has to choose between those who support and those who oppose measures against china, i think it is too late to start an inquiry. the commission should have used the past few years to develop a vision of a global textile market without barriers and a policy in this area. i believe that the discussion on the temporary imposition of safeguard measures should cover the period after 2008. otherwise, in three years' time this parliament will be having exactly the same debate. the period until 2008 should be used to start a dialogue with the chinese authorities. these talks have a dual purpose, namely to underline the importance of a stable global textile market and to emphasise china's wto obligations. the wto gives china rights, but also obliges it to address, for example, limited market access in the services sectors of banking and telecommunications. i wish the commissioner much perseverance in his negotiations with the chinese partners.
in writing. my doubts about china's accession to the world trade organisation are confirmed by the way in which the country does not play by the rules, not only in the textile sector but also in intellectual property, for example. we have also got taiwan into the wto by admitting china, and that was worth something. but it doesn't absolve us of our duty to keep china in the game. the question remains whether, even if china were to play by the rules, industries such as textiles in the european union could compete with low-wage countries. europe must specialise, it must focus on producing high-quality products, it must focus on providing high-quality labour. only then can we compete in the world market.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution today on the future of europe 60 years after the second world war. the resolution seeks to provide a common analysis of european history over the last 60 years, nazism, stalinism, occupation, freedom and more. i agree with much of what is in the resolution. but the european parliament is a political body, not a congress of historians. our role cannot be to produce an analysis of recent european political history in a week and a half. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
president. - two weeks ago, after a long period of preparation, russia and the european union reached an agreement on the implementation of their strategic partnership. this shows that the european union and russia can make progress together in their relations after the previous impasse. has this agreement answered all the questions about the relationship between russia and the european union? the answer is no for now. the roadmaps adopted provide both partners with a starting point and improved cooperation in a number of areas. but other issues remain. i want to highlight three in particular. russia and the european union share a number of common interests in the fields of economy, energy, security and the fight against crime. at the same time, developments in russia concerning the values for which the union stands - democracy, the rule of law and transparency - are worrisome. and rightly so, mrs wallström's report pays a lot of attention to this. the european union must find a balance between these values and interests in its approach to russia, which will at the same time enable us to influence russia's internal developments in a positive way. the establishment of a transparent democracy and economy in russia is not only an ideological issue in the long term, but also a matter of common interest for the european and russian peoples. to be effective in this respect, member states must be able to keep the lines towards moscow closed. the second point is the resolution of the frozen conflicts in moldova and georgia. the eu must do everything within its power to push russia towards a more cooperative stance, and the space within the recent agreements must be used to the full. finally, russia is a crucial factor in the success of the neighbourhood policy in the new neighbouring countries. however, there are still too many gaps in policy-making and implementation. the european policy on russia must take better account of the objectives of the neighbourhood policy, which must not be subordinated to the relationship between the european capitals and moscow.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many consumers are concerned about their health, cholesterol, blood pressure or are struggling with excess weight. the food industry is playing on this. there's a proliferation of all kinds of claims. this morning i had a sandwich that's good for my gut flora, smeared with butter that lowers my cholesterol, and a little egg with it that's high in omega 3. my soda this afternoon was light. fine, i guess, because i don't know. it is therefore of great importance that this bill requires that the claims made by food manufacturers be scientifically substantiated. we must prevent consumers from being misled. consumers are often willing to pay more for a product that claims to do something for their health. but then the consumer must be able to trust that it is true. deception comes in many forms. article 4 states that health claims may only be made on products meeting a certain profile. and rightly so, because fatty croquettes don't get healthy by adding a little bit of vitamin. 0% yogurt is not good for the line if you've added a whole can of sugar. a sugary lollipop with vitamin a doesn't make a healthy food. that is why article 4 is of great importance. the ppe-de group's argument that article 4 is a problem for smes is not acceptable to me. even a small food company knows what ingredients go into the bread or snacks. my group stands with the consumers and with the benevolent companies. i hope that a majority of this house will follow this line and not abolish article 4. i think it is a good thing that the commission has not yet taken a decision on this. it is clear that the drawing up of these profiles is not easy. but it is also clear that in the united states and in some companies, there is a long history of nutrition profiling. so, liberals, come on, don't keep asking for studies, but make a decision and don't leave the consumers out in the cold. i would like to draw your attention to three other matters. first, health claims for children. we see no reason to ban health claims for children as long as those claims are scientifically substantiated. it is good to do research on good nutrition for children. but we do want advertising geared to children, even though this is strictly outside the scope of this proposal. a second point is alcohol. there's a vote against the ban on claims for alcoholic beverages. we have to do it within our group. i'm disappointed in you. when you overlook all the problems with alcoholism, liver damage and brain damage, it's hard to approve health claims for alcohol. with alcohol, warnings are in order. we should not encourage the consumption of alcohol. a third and very important point is whether claims should be subject to the authorization procedure or whether notification is sufficient. producers must provide convincing evidence of the validity of their claim when applying for a licence. the burden of proof is on the authorities when they give notice. that means that a claim is allowed until the authorities have been able to prove otherwise and that is how we get the essence out of the bill and that is what our group is against in any case. i call on all colleagues to vote tomorrow for consumers and for benevolent companies. we must not give in to the pressure of companies who are afraid of being exposed. the single market is not a license to mislead consumers. let the results tomorrow make it clear to the europeans that europe is there for them.
the commissioner is presenting a legacy which he has received from his predecessor and he is proud to defend it with enthusiasm. the consumer is, after all, at the heart of this proposal. and that's important too. it is important for consumers to know that health, nutrition or food claims cannot be false or misleading. that is the beauty of this proposal and the alde group fully supports it. on the contrary, it is of course true that those communications which are scientifically proven - which are true - are useful to consumers. i don't want to talk about it as "that's advertising and advertising is actually a little bit dirty because that's what makes profit", no, that's also important to consumers. consumers want to be able to make a choice and that choice must therefore be offered to them. but it must be scientifically proven, and that is not something we should just allow, no, i think it is something we should welcome, because it increases consumer choice and it encourages innovation, and that is also important. now i know there's a gray area in the middle, because what do you do with these health claims that are on a product that is actually not healthy in itself? i would say that this is a case of deception, and article 7 already provides safeguards against this. i am not sure that we need european food profiles for this. nutrition profiles could be a good idea. i know that member states do. the commission has not yet been able to convince us that this is possible at national level, but whether it is possible at european level is not yet clear. i am currently campaigning for the constitutional treaty in the netherlands. i do not know whether mrs corbey does the same - apparently not - but if i were to say there 'don't worry people, brussels is going to tell you what you can and cannot eat' then that treaty would be voted down altogether. that is not a message we can get across on the basis of arguments like we have had. so i want a full argument. we as a group will not vote largely for the deletion of article 4, but we do think that the commission should come back to us with a better argument and that is what our amendment no 107 is about. finally - i am already over my time - very briefly, we are in favour of the least possible bureaucracy, so we opt for the notification procedure which we believe provides sufficient guarantees for consumers and involves less embarrassment. and finally, obesity does need to be discussed, it needs to be addressed. but that is not part of this directive, but rather of the food labelling directive, which we would have liked to have had by now. if you do that, commissioner, i think we can talk about obesity as a problem much more effectively.
i think the commission's proposal is a good proposal in itself. the original report by mrs bortone, in fact, adds a number of improvements to it, as far as i am concerned. this is a matter which has been on the table for several years and which is now being dealt with by its second rapporteur. the vote in the committee on the environment also showed that this is not an easy subject. for a moment, i thought mrs. bortone would throw in the towel this time, too. the vote in the committee on the environment completely eroded the european commission's proposal and the rapporteur's report. article 4 on nutritional profiles, which is very important, was simply deleted by one amendment. this article was intended to avoid putting a health claim on foods such as chips, chocolate and alcohol, which are not healthy foods in themselves, which could lead the consumer to conclude that they are healthy because they contain calcium, for example. so this is really a public health issue, and the food industry, thanks to its lobby, has taken the hit. the environment committee has therefore rejected the principle that a claim must be based on the true nutritional value of a product. in order to defend this position, it has used the same argument as the food industry, namely that there are no bad or good foods, but only bad diets or eating habits. the commission has also rejected the proposed authorisation procedure and replaced it with a notification requirement. this means that the producer or importer of food is only required to notify a food agency that he uses this or that claim and is not required to provide scientific evidence. my group has tabled a number of amendments which correct this situation, which is unacceptable to us. we want to get article 4 back in. finally, i should like to say that if this article on nutritional profiles is not reintroduced, even in a lighter form, we will vote against the proposal.
deputising for the author.– madam president, i will avoid making this a purely dutch discussion, and speak in english so that others can participate directly in this interesting debate. the possibility of a takeover of the london stock exchange by deutsche börse or euronext has ignited debates in the european parliament over whether such a takeover can be assessed at national level alone. at present, the two cases are being dealt with by the office of fair trading and the competition commission in the uk. legally speaking, the takeover of the lse may be the responsibility of the relevant member state’s competition authorities, since european competition rules do not apply as long as the national regulators deem the relevant markets to be their respective member states and the turnover level to be below the thresholds set for european competition rules to apply. nevertheless, the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled this oral question to the commission to ask it to play a more proactive role. we would like the commission to consider the different scenarios that might arise and assess the effects that they might bring to competition in, and the pricing of, listing services, trading services, information services and, not least, important post-trade services, clearing and settlement. we are aware of the detailed studies undertaken by the competition commission in the uk, prepared by the british office of fair trading. the standpoint of that assessment is, however, primarily or maybe even exclusively the impact for the uk markets, and we would like to see that broadened in the commission’s assessment. you may remember the shock caused in 2002-2003 when some traders in dutch blue-chip equities challenged euronext amsterdam to lower prices and to providing improvements in services, by looking for an alternative trading venue with deutsche börse and the lse. this showed that competition really makes a difference. this characterises the situation we have at present of an open integrated european market with crossborder competition. the question is whether different scenarios increase this competitive tendency, or go in the opposite direction and tend to create monopolies - situations for which, by the way, ex ante competition regulation might be a more appropriate answer. another related issue is the aspect of regulation and supervision. from the moment the possible take-over of the lse appeared on the pages of the financial papers, speculation started as to where the headquarters of the merged entity would be based and which regulator would get the power to supervise it. that was more than speculation. i tend to believe there was truth in the stories that the issue of the regulatory regime was a major subject in the merger talks. who knows, it might even have been part of the background of the rebellion against the deutsche börse leadership, which you in germany have such nice nicknames for. as the rapporteur of subsequent reports on prudential supervision and the fsap, i would not dare to express my preferences for one or other national regulatory regimes. my far greater concern is that there will be counterproductive competition between national regimes, instead of further coordination and cooperation. that is one of my strongest arguments for a european level supervisor. in the reports i prepared in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and which were adopted in the previous plenary sitting, this is again stressed as an option for the near future. such a european level supervisor should execute the application of the european regulatory framework of the fsap developed in previous years. as regards the part of the financial market which is already supranational and operates crossborder and often cross-sector, one of our main messages is to create real convergence in the implementation of the european directives and real convergence of supervisory practice, thereby avoiding regulatory arbitrage and possible competition on other factors for establishment such as fiscal and cost aspects. therefore, the possible effects of the commission’s ambitions as regards integration of the financial markets and the regulation and supervision of different scenarios should also be part of the assessment we are asking for. in that context i would ask you to focus your attention on scenarios in which merger activity is not restricted to eu countries alone. there may also be conceivable scenarios in which the new york stock exchange and a newly formed one joint with the lse or, on the other hand euronext and deutsche börse might get together. there might then be a disintegration rather than a further convergence of european regulations. this should also be taken into account in your assessment and expectations. it is regrettable that this debate is being held at such a late hour, but i thank the commissioners for being here and wish mr mccreevy, who was supposed to be here, all the best with his health. i also hope, of course, that we can continue the debate in the committee.
the rapporteur. president, a social europe in the world economy, jobs and new opportunities. under this motto, the european commission presented the social agenda for the coming years in february. and we shall try today to respond to the initiative laid down in the documents. i hope therefore that the commission, and the council, will take up positively the points which we are putting today in the report on which we are going to vote. sometimes i feel that when you're involved in social policy, you're considered a softie. social policy is no longer relevant in this europe. but if we want to achieve the objectives, if we want to regain confidence in our society, if we want to ensure that people who are currently out of work can get a job, if we want to achieve that, then we need the social model we know in europe. when i look at the treaty, the new constitutional treaty, and this is the debate we are having in france and the netherlands, i see that the social market economy is being used as a guide and has consequences for all the policies and for all the policies we are implementing in the european union. and if we know that, then we must also translate the social market economy into every policy we put forward here. this means that when we look at the social agenda together, achieving the lisbon objectives, i.e. getting a job, creating good and quality employment, is of the utmost importance to us. that also means that we must ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the engine of more and better jobs, are also given every opportunity. that is lisbon. but lisbon also means that we must ensure that people who are now excluded, have a disability or have a disability which prevents them from combining work and professional life adequately, that these people with the social environment we want in europe also have an opportunity on the labour market. it also means that people with a disability who have the remaining skills will still have a chance on the labour market thanks to additional opportunities for retraining or further training. we have been talking for years now - i think for several decades - about encouraging retraining, retraining, upskilling, being always active to train for the labour market, and in fact, with one exception, far too little is being done in this area. i therefore think that training should receive the greatest possible attention from the commissioner. then the social market economy. we need an economy that's made for everyone. so that also means that we have to look very closely at the demographic effects of our society on our social security system. if we know that we are going to face a de-greening and silvering of our workforce in the coming period, then that also means that we have to adapt our social protection systems to these demographic factors. the european commission is analysing well, but it is not translating this into an absolute policy that this report lacks. and i hope that with the emphasis we will put on the vote in the near future, we will succeed in making the social agenda more practical.
president. - each year in may we debate here the guidelines for economic policy in the european union. today it seems more like we should be talking about ethics than economics. mr goebbels' report contains many points with which i can agree. i agree with the integration of social policy and the concern about the lack of progress on investment to meet kyoto. and that is where mr goebbels should have left it. on one important point this report goes far beyond my means, and i agree with mrs lambert. the rapporteur, in amendment no 12, calls for more objective information on the controversial research into genetically modified organisms and embryonic stem cell research. i think we have better things to do than promote controversial research. it is essential to me that stem cell research should focus on the value of human life, and research on embryos which are destroyed by it does not fit into that. in previous texts parliament has made clear its position on the place of stem cell research. the text of this resolution is therefore not in line with the texts adopted earlier. on 10 march, for example, parliament adopted a resolution on the trade in human eggs, paragraph 15 of which states explicitly that embryonic stem cell research may be left to the member states where it is permitted. please note that the member state is not required to carry out this examination. that is a clear distinction which is missing from the text of this resolution. i shall not support this resolution if amendment no 12 and amendment no 24 by mrs van den burg are adopted unchanged.
mr president, several speakers from my group have already said: we are also strongly in favour of the integrated approach of these guidelines. i would like to say that this should not be a superficial discussion, but that it is important to go into the depths and, in particular, to give the trade committees a role in their specific field. in the committee on economic affairs, we in our group are stressing the need for stronger economic coordination, and i would also like to suggest to commissioner almunia that we look at how we can bring about more coherence in the discussion of these package guidelines and the annual budgetary reports on convergence in the context of the stability pact. the third point i would like to make is that it is important to give the european parliament a full role in these processes and also to ensure that we have sufficient time and space for our input in the coming years in terms of procedures. that is more a technical question of procedures and timetables, but i hope that we can reach good agreements on that next year, because this year was a bit difficult. i think it's important in terms of content. i think that the commission has a much better chance of getting parliament on its side in the search for a genuine european perspective. and that is my last point, i am concerned about the way in which the council is still working from that european perspective and i would therefore ask the commission to take care of that. in this case i would like to address myself specifically to mr spidla, because i was extremely disturbed by the way in which a position we took in the last part-session on the working time directive was dealt with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is not the way the commission should deal with parliament.
mr president, several speakers have asked mr špidla about the working time directive and the way he dealt with parliament’s position in the last plenary. i did not hear a response on that.
mr president, this is not really a point of order. i just want to draw the house’s attention to amendment 8, which calls for services of general interest to be excluded from the requirement of notification under state aid policy. we actually adopted a report on this matter in february – as a matter of fact it was my own report – and this amendment would be exactly the opposite of the conclusions of that report, which was adopted with a solid majority.
in writing. i thought i should vote for article 29 which deletes the nutritional profiles proposed by the commission. i understand the different position of mr maaten, since he is supposed to be the shadow rapporteur of the alde group, and to be the one to put forward the agreed group line. the starting point for nutrition and health claims on foods should be that there are no good or bad foods, only good or bad eating habits. food claims should be scientifically substantiated and not be required to fit a government-imposed profile. moreover, uniform nutritional profiles are at odds with the variety of lifestyles and eating patterns in the member states of the european union. the introduction of nutrition profiles as a condition for the authorisation of nutrition and health claims made on foods therefore infringes the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. another objection to the concept of nutritional profiles is the disproportionate burden it imposes on small and mediumsized enterprises, which are notably heavily represented in the food industry.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on working conditions for mobile workers providing interoperable crossborder services. this resolution welcomes a council directive which makes a social partners' agreement into law. this agreement between cer (industry) and etf (trade unions) is not necessary, we already have a working time directive (2003/88) which applies perfectly to mobile workers. in addition, the cer represents only those railway companies which have national monopolies in the member states. the erfa, which represents smaller companies, was not recognised by the commission as a social partner. the new directive places impossible demands on these very small railway undertakings. for example, a mobile worker who spends one night away from home is required to spend the next night at home. that is overregulation in itself, but also a barrier to new entrants to the market. new players in the market that actually offer crossborder freight transport. in short, the eu cannot use this directive if it wants to make a modal shift from road to rail and if it wants to make the eu more competitive in the context of the lisbon strategy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the vvd delegation has decided to vote against the oomen report on the social policy agenda for the period 2006-2010. the report highlights a number of issues which do not need to be dealt with at european level, such as the proposal for a legislative initiative on a european minimum income. the vvd also sees little in the way of promoting a european model of education. typical examples of unwanted brussels interference and undermining of national sovereignty, unacceptable to the vvd. the request to the european commission to draw up a voluntary framework for crossborder collective bargaining is also unnecessary. the social partners are already operating at european level and are much better able to organise this among themselves. the report also calls for the introduction of a new system of taxation of capital. many of these laws are a suffocating blanket for entrepreneurs, preventing them from starting businesses. this could have a boomerang effect on employment, which i believe is never the intention of social policy. the vvd believes that the best social policy at european level is the creation of jobs.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs rothe for her efforts in writing the report. the economic committee's opinion stressed the need for a cost-effective approach to energy saving. we have also proposed a number of amendments and on some important points they are happily accepted, but the final proposal does not go far enough as far as the economic committee is concerned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the different levels of energy efficiency between member states should be taken into account. i am happy with compromise no 107, because it brings more flexibility to national objectives, or at least it can bring more flexibility. that is a good thing in itself, but on the other hand we should not maintain the mandatory targets per member state and thereby leave the door open to uniform mandatory targets per country. so, mr president, i think that we should not follow that commitment. secondly, it is important to ensure a strong role for smes in the energy services market, as the contributions of smes to the reduction of energy consumption are significant. the compulsory provision of free energy audits by energy suppliers would be detrimental to independent companies and smes and it is therefore good that it has been abolished. thirdly, the economic committee therefore believes that we must strengthen a cost-efficient approach. it is very important that energy saving is accompanied by a good cost-benefit analysis. the proposal to introduce benchmarks will certainly encourage the dissemination of best practice, but it is important to set up any benchmarking system in such a way that no paper-thin lump is created that negates the added value of the benchmarks.
president. - mr president, to start with, we are saying today a resounding 'yes' to a european approach to more efficient energy use, but i would first like to congratulate mrs mechtild rothe and the european commission on the proposal and report on energy efficiency. it is in the interest of all of us to use energy more economically and to increase energy efficiency has only winners. greater efficiency means reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in doing so, we help meet our kyoto commitments. consumers and public authorities save on their energy bills, and companies that use energy efficiently increase their competitiveness. innovation is the key word here and i wholeheartedly support the top-runner principle of amendment no 96. critics who consider this proposal to be unnecessary interference from brussels in internal affairs are forgetting that without outside pressure, unfortunately not enough is being done to make our energy use more efficient, but mr piebalgs' top-down approach must, in my view, be supplemented by the reverse approach. amendment no 45 challenges companies to come up with all kinds of proposals for more efficient energy use. i also wholeheartedly support the commission's efforts to make the public authorities of the member states serve as role models. governments are in a prime position to make investments in energy efficiency that are not profitable in the short term, but pay off in the long term. whether it is the purchase of clean and efficient service vehicles, refuse trucks, electronic equipment or energy-efficient buildings, the government is in a prime position to tackle this problem. i also believe that we as european institutions have an additional responsibility in this context. we must not only spread obligations across the member states, but also take up the challenge of increasing our energy efficiency ourselves. i propose that the european commission, the european parliament and the council of ministers should join forces in a competition to determine the most energy-efficient institution. the balance sheet can be drawn up next year at green week in front of public opinion and the press. as regards the new parliament building, i think that needs to be improved by about 30%.
i would like to thank mr bösch for his always interesting report on this subject. as a dutchman, i am still thinking about the result of the referendum. what is the general conclusion? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we are talking about fighting fraud, then we cannot do anything but to strengthen the rules. that is the difficulty of this subject. how can we avoid falling into excessive regulation and how can we have effective fraud prevention? i think that is the challenge of this commission. one of the findings of this report is that the number of concentrated fraud cases, irregularities in the structural funds is increasing. i am increasingly hearing from organisations in the field that we should not use these structural funds because they are too complicated to use. you need all kinds of desks to fill out the forms. another example of a contradiction. how can the commission solve this problem? smuggling of cigarettes is a very old subject, and we are making progress on all fronts. when i read it, i was thinking about the first committee, the temporary committee of which i was a member, which was the committee to prevent fraud in transit. the committee made a number of recommendations, including the need to equip all customs offices with computers and to keep each other informed quickly. i've never actually seen a follow-up to that report. has the commission taken any action? i would like to ask the commission to come back and inform parliament of what has happened to it, because it contained all the interesting recommendations. one last point. there will be no european public prosecutor for the time being. i'm one of those who regrets it, old idea; the report of the temporary committee of inquiry also recommended that as far as possible there should be an exchange of customs officials from the various member states so that they could learn from each other. what is the commission's view at the moment?
i would also like to thank mrs schierhuber, the president, for the enthusiasm with which she has presented her report, as usual. i too am in favour of maintaining a viable rural europe and can therefore support the three objectives of the commission. but i do not see why the commission should impose on the whole of europe that a certain percentage should be used for one objective and another for another and so on. i am sure that after the referendum in the netherlands and in france - and some people have already referred to this - we need as few rules as possible from brussels, we can decide that ourselves and the commission can then see whether it has been well spent or not. as regards the report in general, i think it contains a little too many gifts for the different regions. there is no backward area in europe that is barely mentioned. there may well be too little money left for the ordinary regions of europe which also have a rural area. i do not think that the amendment calling for an increase in the total amount for rural policy is realistic, fortunately it is accompanied by the fact that it is subject to the outcome of the vote on the report on the financial perspective. i would like to make a further contribution to the promotion of a good quality policy in europe. it is not fair to ask european farmers to compete freely with the rest of the world while we are imposing very different conditions, especially when there is more liberalization. anyone who sells to us will have to do so on our terms, but those terms must be known and hence a european quality policy.
i think that we need to send a very clear signal to the european countryside today. europe must remain visible, tangible and recognisable, even when there are major changes in the market. what has been shown in the past week, ladies and gentlemen, is that the market, the market, the market, the purse alone, does not bring europe closer together. that market, market, market, doesn't reach people's hearts. there's more going on, a social dimension, there's more going on, rural liveability. it is therefore very good that this programme is so broad in scope and that the regional committee, in which i was able to participate, has adopted a number of amendments which expressly allow for decentralized implementation and for integration. in addition to agriculture, this development also includes natural landscapes, tourism activities and we must actively use new things such as ict and innovation at the company level. the shift to other functions in the countryside will be particularly evident in rural areas and in urban areas as we know them in the netherlands. in my country there are enough proposals for reconstruction in the agricultural areas to make the innovative move. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the processing of foodstuffs and the processing of agricultural products. president, my colleague albert jan maat has previously suggested that more flexibility be allowed between the columns and also in the subsidy rates. i would like to stress that again. finally, there is a spectre in europe at the moment, the spectre of renationalisation. this is already emerging in response to the common european policy, but will be even more pronounced in 2013 in the next battle over finances. i want to oppose that. that leads to less europe, that leads to less recognition and less closeness to those people in the countryside who are now looking at europe and who have said 'no' to the constitution by a majority. not because they do not want to, but because there is hesitation in the policy and that would be counterproductive.
it is a difficult dilemma, mr president, and it is a bit like the chicken and the egg, which came first: the chicken or the egg. we must first have democracy fully established with democratic and legal controls or we must first take decisive decisions which also make citizens support the interests of european democracy en masse. the answer, of course, is that it must be both. mr oreja has already said that terrorism and the fight against it are essentially crossborder and that we must also work together better in this respect. but that's hard. because with 25 countries, there are also 25 vetoes. and decisions are trained, there's a woolly compromise or they're simply not executed. and i think countries should now leap over their own shadow. but at the same time we must also recognize that these are very sensitive decisions taken in the council of ministers, decisions which affect civil rights. and that's why it's wrong for them to be so mistaken. i think that the council should continue to meet in public and vote in public. and that does not require any amendment of the treaty. but that's just a matter of opening doors. and i hope that parliament will take joint action to consult the council on this. it has been said many times that terrorism is an attack on our fundamental freedoms and that we should not make the mistake of undermining those civil rights ourselves. another example that is often given is privacy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the proposal for the storage of traffic data is indeed out of all proportion. if the council approves it, the european parliament should go to the court of justice. it is also not very encouraging that the council is trying to circumvent democratic control by including this decision in the third pillar instead of the first. because, indeed, if we want to protect democracy from terrorism, we must not destroy it ourselves.
i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the work they have done on these reports. the reports we are discussing today repeatedly stress that the defence and promotion of human rights is the most important and best strategy for preventing and combating terrorism. commissioner frattini has indicated that the fight against terrorism should be a matter of strengthening human rights, and i fully agree with him. defending and promoting important values such as democracy, freedom, pluralism and human dignity are crucial in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the radicalisation and polarization which are so often both a part and a consequence of terrorism are at least as great a danger to the european union as terrorism itself. we politicians must be very aware of this and at all times try to keep our heads cool, we must be realistic, we must not unnecessarily stir up fear and avoid becoming ourselves part of the hysteria which only fuels the tensions which feed terrorism. at any rate, we should not fall into the trap of following the bizarre reasoning that terrorists use to justify their inhuman actions. we must take measures which really increase the freedom of all citizens and stay away from measures which only increase the appearance of security. two of the measures discussed here deserve, i think, extra attention in this respect. first, the idea of criminalizing terrorism at the international criminal court. i wonder what problem that's a solution to, exactly? do we really have to treat the perpetrators of terror the way we treat former dictators like milosovic? one thing i know for sure, the murderer of theo van gogh, a famous filmmaker and a highly-publicized columnist and opinion maker from my country, the netherlands, would love to be able to use the platform that such a case would offer him. so i don't think that's a good idea at all. then the storage of traffic data. if there is one example of measures that lead to only a semblance of safety, this is it. a lot has been said about this. so i will not go into it. it is disproportionate, it restricts our freedom and i think that is precisely the freedom we need to promote in the european union. there are risks involved, you can put all kinds of restrictions on the access to that kind of data, but let's face it, anything that's on the internet is open to anyone, no matter how well you secure it. so there are risks involved that are likely to outweigh the benefits involved. i don't think we should do that. instead - because the internet is indeed a very emerging means of communication for people who want to deal with terrorist recruiters - we should have our security services specialise in participating on the internet, in reading, in discussing, in simply actively following what is happening there; that would really help! looking back at the websites that the bomber visited doesn't seem like the best strategy. we must try to prevent these bombings from being carried out. i think that such a measure - the legal basis has been discussed here on several occasions and the way in which this decision is taken is also a flagrant breach of democracy - undermines confidence in european democracy; the dangers of this have become painfully clear in recent times.
mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my regret at the french and the dutch ‘no’ to the constitution, because the eu will now have to fight terrorism with one hand tied behind its back. the citizens have given a very clear signal in the debate on the referendums. i would, therefore, call on the council to work in the spirit of the constitution, and that means respecting three key principles. the first is democratic control. that means that the council should not ignore and sideline the european parliament, but should take its recommendations on board, even if it is not yet obliged to. the other two aspects mentioned by many colleagues are proportionality and effectiveness. again, in these areas, the council should think twice about certain measures. its own report on the implementation of the action plan to combat terrorism shows that there are considerable gaps in implementation. before adopting new measures we should be looking at implementation. in the case of the peer review, for example, only ten out of twenty-five countries have so far submitted their implementation reports! how can we take new steps if we do not even know if the old ones work? i now turn to three specific issues. firstly, data retention. a lot has already been said and again i would call on the council to act in the spirit of the constitution and not ignore the european parliament. it should also not ignore the signals given by many countries – the example of the united states has already been mentioned. but i would add to those examples the case of the dutch parliament, which wanted to adopt a similar data retention measure. however, once it found out how that would work – or, rather, not work – in practice, the dutch parliament reconsidered it, because it realised that the data retention proposal was simply not workable. the council should not ignore this. it is regrettable that the council is not present on this occasion. with passenger name records, there have also been several incidents. we were promised an evaluation a year after this entered into force. i should like to know from the commission when we can expect the evaluation. thirdly, we would like to know more about the sitcen, the situation centre. what exactly is it doing, what kind of information does it deal with and will it report to the european parliament? finally, i ask the european parliament to show its colours. we have talked a lot today about the protection of personal data and fundamental rights. i call on this parliament to adopt not only all the reports on antiterrorism measures but also the moraes report on anti-discrimination policies and minority rights, because fundamental rights are for all citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. mr president, the argument that the netherlands contributes too much to the european budget was a widely heard argument in the netherlands to vote against the constitution. why should you be the biggest net contributor when four other member states are richer than your own country? with this resolution we are indicating that a solution must be found very soon to the unfair and unequal position of the netherlands. we want a proportionate contribution for each country, not just the netherlands. the dutch 'no' to the constitution is a sign that things must be different in europe, not less but different. this includes a budget that is as austere as proposed by mr böge, and which we therefore very much welcome. that also means that we consider an alternative such as the greens propose to be too expensive and too supra-european. but i also do not support the 1% of the 6 as a salvationist premise. it's not the most important thing whether it's 1 or 1.07%. what is important is where the money is spent and what the added value is of regulating this at european level. we do not want a more expensive europe with more of the same, we want a different europe, a europe of solidarity and social cohesion. now too much european money is still going to the relatively rich regions, almost 45% of the budget goes to agricultural subsidies and we are wasting, you know our position on that, 200 million euros a day at the strasbourg meetings. we must make more money available for a safer and more social europe, more co-financing of agricultural policy by the old member states, direct abolition of agricultural export subsidies and all of that can provide extra money for a safer and more social europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has proposed to combine development aid, foreign policy and economic cooperation. parliament is unanimously against this, the report calls for a divorce. we also demand that the millennium development goals be placed explicitly at the heart of development policy. one in five citizens, mr president, today has no access to basic education and health care. we want to put this at the heart of the policy, the minimum amounts in the proposals are minimum amounts, 35% of these amounts should be devoted to basic education and basic health care. if we make these choices, europe will contribute to a safer world and europe can make a difference in that respect, and thus be not only social on the inside but also social on the outside. that is the wish of the entire european parliament.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. president, i would like to congratulate mr böge on his balanced report. there are still some pain points here and there for the agricultural sector, but it is a very balanced approach. and, mr president, it is european agriculture that makes the multiannual budget possible, because it is the only sector that is going to make a big contribution. we're going from 36 to 26% of the budget. i think that is a huge leap forward for all the other sectors involved in european policy. two pain points remain. we have an agreement from brussels which indicates what growth is allowed in that budget. at the same time, i note that there is no financing for the accession of romania and bulgaria. and now that european agriculture is already producing so much, i cannot imagine that the brussels agreement should also finance the accession of bulgaria and romania with the 26% allocated to it. in an extreme situation, because that agreement and the rebates to it have to be paid by the 15 old member states, it could lead to farmers in the 15 old member states receiving 15% less premium in 2012 than farmers in the new member states. that can't be the reality. mr böge also suggests that we can fight evil with the devil by solving this problem through partial co-financing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, we are very much attached to the common market and its preservation. in any case, cofinancing of compulsory expenditure must not lead to the renationalisation of agricultural policy. one more point concerning the council. there's a lot of debate about the net payments. i would suggest to the council that the net contributions of the member states should be reduced to take account of own resources. in my country, that is half the net contribution and that may solve the problem.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. president, we are grateful to the rapporteur for including one of the main recommendations of the committee on budgetary control in his report for the time being; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. this is important because the main expenditure is in the member states. we all know that the european court of auditors has not issued a positive statement of assurance for the last ten years. the second important point made by the committee on budgetary control is that, although we have a budget, there is a huge backlog of expenditure every year. these are known as the ral and we therefore think it is very important that the n + 2 rule be maintained. it is not possible for member states to put money forward and then the commission does not know how to spend it.
i have been campaigning a lot in recent weeks for the future of europe and i am very sorry that the referendum in the netherlands ended in a 'no', but of course it is not strange. if a country is told year after year that europe is too expensive and that it is a disgrace how much the netherlands pays to brussels, then you cannot expect them to stand up and say, yes, let us embrace europe wholeheartedly. the dutch accountants sowed the seeds of euroscepticism and reaped the rewards on 1 june. what is the conclusion of the dutch government? the netherlands' 'no' is a 'no' to our net-payer position. yeah, that's a turnaround, of course. to my great shock, that is now also the opinion of dutch social democracy, and that is depressing but so easily understandable. in the eyes of my group, the conclusion is quite different. many people did not vote against europe, but they want a better europe, not a europe of the multinationals, but a europe of the people. the green group has therefore tabled an alternative resolution, because we want a really substantial investment in education, in projects to combat poverty, in exchange programmes, including for students. we want more development cooperation, we want to invest in the millennium development goals. we also want to protect our fragile nature by actually releasing money as well; everyone in this room thinks it should be there, but the money isn't coming out. we do not want this to be at the expense of the rural economy. we want to spend the money better, not on prestigious but inefficient national showpieces like the bridge over the street of messina; we are, however, willing to invest in our interconnectedness, such as the rail link from berlin to warsaw, to vilnius, riga and tallinn or from vienna, venice to ljubljana, bratislava, prague and budapest. with nothing but empty promises without money, you will only alienate the voter further. you will have to make it clear how you want to achieve your dreams. we have tabled a resolution to that effect. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank mr böge again, and i think it is right that his report does not only deal with the expenditure of the european union but also, in a number of paragraphs, with the need to revise the own resources decision. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must have uniform rules throughout europe, but mr böge's proposals are acceptable. i also see flexibility as a great asset in the budget, not only in the headings themselves but also in the cofinancing rates for structural aid. it may well be that richer countries have a higher own cofinancing rate than poor countries. i think that the role of the european investment bank in structural spending and of the european investment fund should be increased. there are good examples from the past. finally, one more point on the common foreign and security policy. i believe that this expenditure is also entirely within the competence of parliament. parliament must approve it, it cannot remain in the council alone.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on a tremendous and at times nerve-racking job that he has been doing. he has been working on very interesting subjects. with the enlarged european union we are looking at completely new questions. i have personally come to realise that where the united states might be a melting pot, the european union is a very rich, colourful and beautiful mosaic of diversity. it is something to be proud of and to cherish. we have taken the first steps on the path of a very important discussion. the european union has to respect minority rights, but we should not forget that ultimately each citizen is also an individual and each citizen is therefore entitled to the same rights; secondly, that the european union should respect the cultural identity of minorities and, at the same time, we must ensure that does not prevent full integration and participation in the community. with regard to the issue of non-discrimination, unfortunately after so many years it is still necessary to have this debate. as the previous speaker said, there are still many groups, such as women, who face discrimination and who lag behind. i should like to focus, in particular, on one paragraph that raised some concerns: the paragraph on the rights of gay people. we should be fair to ourselves here. fundamental rights are for all citizens, not just for some groups. if we are serious about the charter of fundamental rights, that says we should not discriminate on grounds of sexual orientation, then we cannot possibly vote for the amendment tomorrow that seeks to delete a paragraph on homophobia and obstacles to freedom of movement. this morning we talked about terrorism and the right balance with fundamental rights. i would therefore hope that this house will wholeheartedly endorse this report tomorrow.
president. - i was not in favour of including article 13 in the ec treaty at the time. i do not approve of discrimination, on the contrary, but i do not want it to be regulated at european level. it is up to the member states to make good regulations. i am not surprised that mr moraes in his report notes that the member states are not in a hurry to implement this policy. the eu approach is clearly not adding value. having a belief is not an individual matter. it is a matter of faith to profess it in a community and to express it in one's attitude toward life. the way in which the suggestion is made in paragraph 22 that discrimination on grounds of religion would take place in education ignores the significance of religious belief for the identity of education. finally, i am grateful to my colleague in the field for amendment no 4. discrimination against christians should be fought with the same intensity as other forms of discrimination.
on behalf of the alde group .– i should like to join with those who have congratulated the rapporteur on pulling off what was not a very easy job. sometimes we have a rather schizophrenic attitude to immigration. on the one hand we continuously stress the need for more economic integration, while at the same time we further tighten the rules on immigration. the result is illegal immigration, human trafficking and abuse of asylum policies. we have shameful scenes in europe of misery, poverty, and even of people drowning on our shores. that is unacceptable. we need to accept that europe has become an immigration continent. we should actually be welcoming immigrants, people who are trying to improve their lot. those people are not criminals, they are showing initiative. people like that have built the united states. they are dynamic and strong and we need them. these people are trying to improve their lives and that is not a crime. we need proper european immigration policies with real possibilities for legal immigration. at the same time we need integration policies. immigrants should be fully included in the community. they should be enabled to participate fully in social, cultural and political life, whether by actual voting rights or mechanisms for representation. my group is very happy to support the report as it stands. it is balanced and will give the necessary support to the european commission in setting up its policies.
i am grateful to the rapporteur for the report, and i am sure that he will be able to give us a very good answer to the question of the health of the population. i am grateful to the rapporteur for the report, and i am grateful to the rapporteur for the report. there is a lot of sensible language in there, and the utterance of perhaps unwise language is then perhaps left to others like myself, because let me say, of course, it could actually have been more powerful. the commission's version of the matter, of course, says a lot about how it would not be nice if, and should be promoted, and the conclusion is that the responsibility for health and health care really does lie with the member states. i know that, and that is what the treaty says, but the question is, of course, whether it is also sustainable in the long term. because how do we really help sick people ? for example, in the case of long waiting lists in one's own country or the lack of specialist knowledge. i would therefore also like to take this opportunity to advocate a greater role for the european union in health and health care. if someone is sick, he should be able to get medical care abroad. keeping borders closed to medical care for all sorts of administrative, procedural or financial reasons is ultimately not in the best interests of the consumer and that's why we're here anyway. the right to visit a doctor abroad has already been recognised by the court of justice, so why not, as john bowis rightly says, enshrine this in european law. we are in a modern society with generally well-educated, mobile and able citizens, and those people should be able to choose where and how they want to be treated. opening borders to patients also encourages the improvement of the quality of healthcare in the home country, the reduction of waiting lists and the provision of specialist knowledge. that said, i would like to emphasize the positive role of the european union in health care, and the presence of the commissioner at this unchristian hour is all the more appreciated. the health care system in the european union is an exception to the rule that the european union is often associated with the negative image of bureaucracy and the making of senseless and unnecessary rules. we are doing a good job here and we are of course going to vote with great enthusiasm for the report by john bowis.
i am grateful to the president-in-office for his reply, and i would like to congratulate mr bowis on his clear report and his clear position on a topical problem. unfortunately, health care in many countries is not optimal. worse still, in many countries quality and accessibility are in question, and waiting lists and waiting times are increasing. under normal circumstances, patients benefit from care close to home, at least in their own country. in the situation of declining quality, it becomes attractive for patients to look beyond the borders. recent court rulings encourage the patient to seek his salvation elsewhere. i fully agree with the rapporteur's choice to give priority to improving the quality of health care. shopping across the border is not the answer. of course, in border regions it is practical to make joint arrangements for cross-border treatment. and of course, patient out-migration can also be an incentive to invest more in your own health care, but it's a cumbersome way to boost quality. it is therefore not appropriate to regulate patient mobility in the services directive. the committee on the environment has rightly removed patient mobility from the services directive. but, commissioner, there is an urgent problem. there is a great difference in quality between member states. the disparity in survival rates for bladder cancer, for example, is frightening. in austria and iceland, the survival rate for bladder cancer is twice as high as in poland. instead of inventing procedures, laws and regulations to guide the free movement of patients, the commission should invest as proactively as possible in the exchange of knowledge. bladder cancer patients in poland also deserve high-quality treatment. all bladder cancer patients want to benefit from austrian knowledge and expertise. so let's take that step forward and not invest unnecessarily in mobility that patients don't want anyway. waking up from a drug overdose in a strange environment is no fun for anyone. so, quality instead of mobility.
mr president, for two months i have been actively involved in the campaign which in the netherlands has produced 62% of the votes for 'no to the constitution'. as the largest organization in the no camp, our socialist party stood up for the voters' right to change that text. we did not oppose the possibility of a european constitution, nor did we oppose new or future member states, nor even the fact that the netherlands has now become the most extreme net contributor within the european union. we were concerned with the content of the constitution. the text is too much a recipe for an american-style europe, with its emphasis on free and unadulterated competition, liberalization of services, armaments, ties with nato and possibilities for intervention outside the territory of the european union. chapter 3 does not belong in a constitution, but should be part of normal legislation which can be reviewed by the european parliament, with the influence of the national parliaments. then elections become the means for voters to force change and remove the feeling that ordinary people can no longer contribute to policy change. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft constitution, which is the only way to achieve the objectives of the treaty. with these arguments we have managed to persuade many people who are complaining about the policies and the interference of the european union, but who were inclined to stay at home because they had no hope of improvement, to come to the polls anyway. instead of the expected low turnout with a majority for "yes", it became a high turnout with a majority for "no". that constitution is dead now. but if the voters in other member states are offered a referendum, i expect that the majority will also reject this constitutional text. that 's how the people get the right to amend ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the dutch people have given a clear and unequivocal 'no' to the european constitution. it would be an honour for the european institutions to recognise this. the rejection of the constitutional treaty is primarily a rejection of the speed and direction of the european integration process. i fear that this lesson has not been understood in brussels, given the eagerness with which the failure of national politics is pointed out, the absolute lack of self-criticism and the plea for continuing the ratification process. the heads of government must prove at the summit on 16 and 17 june that they have understood the lesson of the french and dutch 'no' more than many of my colleagues. the impasse over the european constitution calls for appropriate action. it is therefore incomprehensible that the political elite in brussels is delaying and the pain bench prevails over the speedy arrival of a new treaty. i am glad that the electorate is showing that they have no confidence in a europe that is vague in its geographical and policy definitions and that links an unhealthy concentration of power with unrealistic political ambitions.
mr president, the voters in the netherlands and france have given us a clear message. stop, we're drifting along without any clear direction. in the netherlands, 62% of the electorate voted 'no'. it's time to do something positive with those voters. the "no" voice came from two different directions. on the one hand, there is the right-wing voter who has a clear anti-european sentiment and says 'no' to the european project. but on the other hand, there is a 'no' vote from the progressive electorate who are in favour of european cooperation but who consider this constitution too intrusive and too unsocial. these sentiments are also reflected in the progressive voters who did cast their ballots with some hesitation for the constitution, because they felt it was a step forward. we must now try to unite those progressive voters from the 'yes' and 'no' camps in favour of a clearly defined european project. of course, other countries must also have a say in the european constitution, but the netherlands and france have made their choice. not this constitution, not a second referendum on the same subject. we must not now go into isolation or make a pass at the scene, on the contrary. we want a reform strike in europe to show the voters that we have heard their concerns, both for the 'yes' and the 'no' voters. this reform must be based on a broad and open debate on the direction and speed of european integration. how many countries are there? how do we make europe strong and social? perhaps the council, on 16 and 17 june and then under the leadership of tony blair, can begin to think about how to save the important elements, namely chapters 1 and 2 of the constitution, the principles of europe, improved voting weighting, strong subsidiarity, openness, improved influence of national parliaments and the rights of citizens in a simplified treaty approach. otherwise, the procession in echternach threatens to be nothing but a step backwards, without a vision of realistic european cooperation, and as barroso rightly said: "europe is actually the right answer to many of the criticisms voiced by citizens, and that is why i am determined to continue working".
the european parliament has a problem, mr president, and that problem cannot be solved by simply presenting it a little better or explaining a little better how good europe really is. europe still appeals to the minds of many, but no longer to the hearts. the bureaucracy has the appearance of reinforced concrete and the customer-friendliness of a rhinoceros. the european institutions must be forced to listen more closely to the european citizens, and i am therefore pleased that this was reflected in the words of president barroso. because what are we afraid of? why not have the president of the european commission elected directly by all europeans and why not the possibility of a collective referendum on european laws. not 25 national referendums but one european referendum. give citizens real power over the european union. the question now is what reforms the union can undertake in the meantime. the constitution was intended to enable the union to deal with enlargement. what's the next step? the meps in my party are in favour of enlargement but think it would be wise to freeze the enlargement of the union until we have our own house in order. we would then like to talk again about the accession of countries which meet those criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must be a europe-wide social debate on the economic and social future of our continent, with a convention-like model for my part, with a new mandate, a new composition and a new presidency. europe must inspire again, europe must stand for quality, for creativity and for democracy, a safe, free, tolerant and prosperous europe. europe has a problem, but it also has an opportunity, and we must leap over our own shadow.
i am sorry to hear the dutch and french say no. europe is too bureaucratic, too expensive, too many new countries have joined, and europe is moving too fast. no, colleagues, the environment is going faster, china's economy is growing faster, international crime is going faster. europe must not slow down, but europe must take the flight forward. as regards enlargement, i am counting on the dynamism of the new countries as a new engine for european integration. we need a strong democratic europe, we need more europe, not less. i would like to call on those who love europe to show leadership and courage, otherwise we will be giving way to populists and extremists. we must choose to fly forward, ladies and gentlemen, and national politicians must be able to step over their own shadows and take responsibility for europe. i am therefore concerned about the council's attitude, as i said yesterday on the subject of data retention, where the council chose to ignore the european parliament altogether, which is not in the spirit of the debate that took place. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that in addition to the two countries that said 'no', there are also ten countries that said 'yes', and that is an important fact. i would therefore not be in favour of stopping the whole procedure at this stage. it is clear that time is needed to think about it, but i think that every country and every people should have the right to speak out on this constitution. it is precisely at this moment that we must fight for europe. we must not go back to the past, but we must double our commitment to europe.
in writing. government officials are required to keep their hands clean, whether they are employed by the european union or by local communities. they have to avoid conflicts of interest such as personally rewarding links with companies. in mr barroso's case, being the president of the european commission, doubts about such corporate links have risen. therefore we signed a motion of censure with the explicit and exclusive goal to initiate a debate in the plenary session. although this debate has already taken place on the 25th of may, we haven't got any reasons to be satisfied with mr barroso's replies yet. we strongly believe that a majority of meps indeed has made it too easy for mr barroso to take the criticism seriously. in the meantime we have received new information about mr. barroso's corporate involvement. although this information hasn't been sufficient yet for bringing this motion of censure to the vote, it might as well become sufficient later. if we would have had the freedom to withdraw or postpone the motion of censure, we would have done so. as it seems though that it is no longer possible to withdraw this motion, we have decided to abstain from voting today.
in writing. as members of the socialist party in the netherlands, we have no objections in principle to the possibility that the european union could have the maximum of 1.26% of gross national product, as laid down in the treaties. money collectively spent on democracy, the environment, public services, social security and international solidarity is money well spent. a society which fails to have the necessary resources is in permanent crisis. we have no sympathy whatsoever for those who want to achieve tax reductions through a retreating government. we are still critical of eu spending. money is being unnecessarily pumped into regions in the richest member states, a lot of agricultural money is going to big farmers and export subsidies, the disaster fund is suddenly being expanded with a terrorism fund, the european parliament is unnecessarily costing a lot of money through high expenses reimbursements and the constant moving between two cities, many cross-border problems for which the eu could be useful are not being addressed and a lot of money is going to opaque spending and fraud. as long as this situation persists, we have little reason to actively oppose those who want to reduce expenditure to 1%, even if we reject their often selfish views and arguments.
president. - we also hope that the european union will be able to reach a united position with the united states at the forthcoming summit, despite the unrest that has arisen over the future of the constitutional treaty following the 'no' votes in the netherlands and france. the world has not come to a standstill and some issues where agreement between the united states and the european union is of great importance cannot wait until we have solved our internal problems. the atmosphere between the united states and europe has undoubtedly improved, but that does not mean that all the differences are over. the eu must ensure that it can pass on its points to the us. the joint resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow contains a whole shopping list of matters which we think should be on the agenda. i want to highlight three things. first of all, it's the question of how do we deal with globalization? the debate on this subject cannot be summed up in two minutes, but it is clear that the combined economic weight of the european union and the united states gives us both influence and great responsibility; how do we incorporate issues of fair trade, the environment and a more social dimension into our approach to economic globalization? secondly, after the failure of a review conference on the non-proliferation treaty, i am very concerned about the proliferation of nuclear weapons technology. the participating countries have not succeeded in reaching substantial agreement despite lengthy and thorough preparations. this is not least due to the american attitude. the treaty, the legal basis of the non-proliferation regime and therefore a necessary condition, may have been seriously weakened. the consequences of that are unpredictable. i therefore urge urgent action by the eu member states and the us to come up with measures that help restore confidence in the npv. thirdly, the un reform which is being discussed in the autumn is closely linked to this. i am glad to see that the president-in-office of the council is also aware of the importance of this item on the agenda. the need for reform is widely felt, but the position of the united states is not yet clear. i see this agenda item as a test of american views on the multilateral system and even on the future of the entire un system. i hope very much that the european union will succeed in obtaining commitments from the americans to adopt a constructive attitude.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97) for a regulation on the conclusion of the protocol establishing a framework agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). although i agree with this position, it is far too restrictive. it ignores the eroding military balance in the state of taiwan and the general regional stability in east asia. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the united states does not become a party to the arms embargo against china. mr president, council and commission, it seems that brussels, for the sake of short-term financial gain, wants to let washington turn its back on peace and security in the far east. in that case, a new crisis in transatlantic relations is soon to follow iraq. i hope that the council will reject this bleak scenario at the eu-us summit on 20 june. how, by taking responsibility, together with the americans, to take real responsibility for geopolitical stability in asia. as china's most important trading partner, the european union is bound by its position.
president. - i welcome the reaction of the presidency of the council and commissioner borg to the fact that they want to put more political pressure on the government in uzbekistan and also to give targeted aid to the refugees from uzbekistan. it is not concealed that the explosion of violence and insurgency in uzbekistan is the result of a mixture of extreme poverty, heavy political repression by the state and muslim fundamentalism. the brutal response of the uzbek government has turned the situation in uzbekistan into a smoldering inferno. the european union cannot stand by, because we have a strong relationship with uzbekistan, including with the european parliament. we also have a cooperation delegation for central asia. the european union is spending €10 million a year on aid to uzbekistan, including money for the uzbek parliament. i have tabled an amendment to the 2005 budget to freeze part of the budget, but unfortunately it was rejected by a majority of one vote. this is strange, since most of the political parties in uzbekistan were banned from participating in the parliamentary elections. what is needed now is for the european union to step up the pressure to implement reforms and improve the legal structure. in addition, all aid going through the government or parliament must be frozen, because european money must not be used for state repression. the civil society and ngos must be supported. it is also worth mentioning that freedom of the press and freedom of religion must be guaranteed, because it is beyond words that churches, among others, are also heavily hindered and harassed, while they have nothing to do with religious fundamentalism, let alone terrorism or other matters. in the longer term, political pressure will have to lead to greater political freedom and new elections. this is vital for uzbekistan, which is still poor but is experiencing rapid economic growth. the stability of the region depends on economic growth accompanied by genuine democracy and freedom of expression.
president. - the european summit of 22 march decided to revise the stability pact. the council has reached new agreements, a new kind of stability pact, which we hope the member states will respect this time. i have always said that the extension of the stability pact is detrimental to economic growth and monetary stability and that it is also reducing public confidence in the euro and, therefore, in europe. the failure to make public the amendment to the stability pact, which concerns the 3% ceiling, does not contribute to confidence in the euro. the 3% threshold may be exceeded by member states. but so far the council and the commission have not provided any clarity on the interpretation of this new agreement. if the 3% limit is allowed to be exceeded, will there be a new limit? i would like to hear commissioner almunia's answer to this pressing question.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the compromise reached. the fact that most of the groups, but also the commission, the council and industry, are almost on the same page is the result of the good work of mr adamou. yesterday, and i'm not the only one, i was approached by a manufacturer of aircraft tires, who told me that it was not possible for him to meet the 2010 deadline because of the extensive testing and safety requirements that apply to aircraft tires. i assume that the rapporteur and the commissioner have also been approached and i would like to know whether these objections have any real value. i would also like to hear from the commissioner what he thinks about this and whether the manufacturers of aircraft tyres can now meet the requirements of the compromise package. i've been getting the impression from my contacts for the last six months that it might be, but i'm very curious to see a reaction.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report. many of the recommendations are valid for all member states and not just the new countries. i welcome the report in substance, but i think we should make a clear distinction between european and member states’ responsibilities. the first weapon in the fight against social exclusion is of course jobs, jobs, jobs. we therefore need to revitalise our economy and reform our social security systems to lead people back to the labour market and not keep them in the poverty trap. the more or less permanent exclusion of 10% of our labour force from the labour market is an absolute disgrace to our civilised society. the rapporteur rightly states that combating social exclusion is best done at local level. it is therefore worrying that in many countries – new and old, including my own – the financial position of local authorities is becoming increasingly serious. local autonomy is meaningless without the necessary financial resources. in fundamental rights policies and notably the fight against discrimination, the eu can and should play a key role. the eu has an outstanding track record on gender equality. it should be equally active in fighting racism and discrimination and it should be proactively defending and promoting equal rights and equal treatment for all. in my view, the european commission should be less timid. the european union cannot turn its head and look away if blatant discrimination takes place, arguing that it is the responsibility of member states. european values are universal. the report highlights the importance of investing in children as the best way of promoting social inclusion. giving children a good start in life and real prospects should be one of the key priorities.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the report by mr glinne, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a brief explanation of his position. after years of a violent struggle for independence against the french colonialists, the liberated country is now the scene of a coup d'état by boumedienne against a young democracy. the years of stagnation that followed resulted in the cancellation of elections that were to be won by islamic fundamentalists. since then, the country has been ruled by military and bureaucratic figures who combine their fear of fundamentalism with an arab nationalism that is hostile to the berber minority and 130 years of french cultural influence. the neighbourhood policy which the european union is seeking to develop cannot be indifferent. it would be a grave mistake to ignore such fundamental rights as freedom of expression and information. the next exchange with the algerian parliament should at least deal with the measures against newspapers and journalists. i hope that the council and the commission will also put human rights above gas supplies and other economic interests.
the collapse of the soviet union has brought about major changes in central europe over the past 15 years, but in the east authoritarian forms of state have remained virtually unchanged. there too, privatization and severe cuts in the public sector have been introduced, while a large group of new poor have also been created. this was not the case with a parliamentary democracy on the european model. the one-party state has been replaced by a small dictatorial profit-making clique that feels it is accountable to no one. in ukraine and georgia, popular movements against such authoritarian leaders have rightly received support from the west. in belarus too, where such a revolution has not yet succeeded, the weak opposition enjoys a lot of foreign sympathy. on the other hand, in those former soviet republics where america has now acquired major military and economic interests, such as uzbekistan and azerbaijan, such foreign support for the popular resistance has so far been lacking. opponents risk imprisonment or death and no chance of free elections. europe will have to show consistent solidarity with opposition movements working for democratization from within.
the president, madam commissioner, the volatile internal situation in azerbaijan deserves our attention. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. this civil discontent is worryingly reflected in an increase in islamist attitudes. significantly, at present 20% of azerbaijanis have been deported for the introduction of sharia, islamic law, nor is azerbaijan western-oriented. there are several reasons for this great internal discontent. the real unemployment rate, for example, is very high, estimated at between 20 and 30%, despite the oil and construction boom. the current presidential regime is also making itself very unpopular by silencing the opposition in the electronic media, blocking public demonstrations of the opposition as much as possible, a poorly representative electoral system and vote-rigging. the latter is a national tradition which is today taking on ever more refined forms. mr president, as an official partner of baku, the european union can make a contribution to the peaceful and democratic development of azerbaijan. in any case, clear language from brussels about reprehensible state repression is in order. the same applies to the close monitoring of the european elections in the forthcoming parliamentary elections in november. i hope that the council and the commission will address president aliyev and his political entourage directly on the enormous political risks of repressive policies, not just at the national level but in a much wider regional context.
mr president, no is no. the dutch vote is final. these are not my words, but those of the dutch prime minister balkenende in the volkskrant today. after the rejection of the proposed text of the constitution by the voters in the netherlands and france, most national governments have opted for a pause. does this merely provide a pause for the administrators to reflect on their tactics or does it provide an opportunity to change and improve the constitution through a broad societal discussion of the general public and civil society organizations? what contribution does the council make to ensuring that this broad social debate, on which a proposal from my party was adopted in the dutch parliament, can take place throughout europe? in retrospect, some supporters of the rejected text see the 'no' vote as a vote against further enlargement with countries with a low standard of living, particularly turkey, and against financial solidarity with the poorest regions. perhaps more importantly, many people are angry about the widening disparities in wealth and power and their uncertain future. they fear that europe will become more and more like america. they are also outraged at fraud-prone projects and the squeezing of subsidies from large agricultural enterprises. the unnecessary pumping of structural fund money between the richest member states is also irritating. does mr juncker agree with me that the neoliberal policy of emphasising the market has contributed to the electorate's opposition to this constitution? it is good that the council did not rush to a decision last week on random cuts or exclusion of new member states. it is now a question of what we want, what europe does and does not do. research shows that people are willing to tackle large-scale and transnational problems to better protect people and the environment, while wanting the least possible interference with national, regional and local democracy. is the council prepared to launch such an investigation? i'd like a response.
i am surprised to see that the european institutions have been the first to start reflecting and thinking. it is disappointing to see how many heads of government are committing themselves with all their might to a text which is, in fact, out of the question. in this way, the reflection on europe's future is unduly hampered. the summit meeting of 16 and 17 june also demonstrated once again the bankruptcy of this constitution. the optimistic tones of a common destiny in the preamble sound grim to the ears of someone from a so-called fat and well-fed country unwilling to do anything for poor countries. in this sense, madam president, a reflection on the subject of 'diplomatic language' is of primary importance for paris. the impasse over the eu's multiannual budget is also linked to the current institutional crisis in europe. the debate on the future budgetary resources of the union closely corresponds to the debate on the european constitution. it is impossible and undesirable to identify policy priorities and provide for their financing in a new multiannual budget while the reflection and reformulation of the mandate of the european union is still in full swing. the european union must take seriously the concerns of citizens about the speed and the direction of the european integration process. the citizens want a healthy european cooperation in which the national interest is not immediately dismissed as egoism or nationalism. the citizens want a europe that does not lose itself in federalist dreams but tackles transnational problems in a forward-looking way.
i think we all regret, mr president, that no agreement has been reached on the finances, but let us also look at the positive aspects. we have, in fact, voted in parliament by a large majority on the böge report: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. the differences in the council have also narrowed to a level that many people had thought possible. i appreciate the efforts of the presidency in this direction and also what mr juncker has said, namely that he has tried to accommodate the netherlands even further. i am not saying this out of selfishness, my friends, but only to indicate that a country like the netherlands is quite happy to pay. but when you read in the newspapers year after year that the netherlands is paid many times more per citizen than other rich countries, that contributes to the fact that a pro-european country like the netherlands eventually becomes skeptical. the netherlands too will soon have to go back to the right direction in a referendum and we must all find a good way back. we also have to learn from these referendums. there were many reasons for a no vote. what has certainly played a part is a certain fear of people about how fast expansions go and where they end. we should explain better that enlargement is not bad for us, but good and what it has brought us. we must also ensure that the enlargement processes currently under way remain credible. that means that the position of the applicant countries must be taken seriously, but also that the criteria we have set for enlargement must be taken seriously and that they must be monitored. we all have a duty to do so, including the criterion that europe must be able to cope with enlargement. president. - it was not an easy time and if anyone could have done it it was this president of the council, mr juncker, and his team. it is impressive how he has repeatedly emphasized the spirit of a europe of cooperation, the spirit of more than a free trade area, in his work and during the negotiations, but also here today and in words that are still alive today, in remembrance of the fact that sixty years ago the second world war came to an end. i am convinced that if we continue in the spirit of mr juncker, a leader of a small country but a great leader in europe - i have just told him myself that i think so - we will soon reap what has been sown by the luxembourg presidency in these difficult times. i thank you, i thank the presidency and let us get on with our work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental standards are respected in the north of limburg, in the netherlands, because of the location and the high traffic density. the combination of the a74 and a73 motorways creates an even worse situation. the a74 will attract many extra lorries and those lorries are big polluters. the government's choice of the a74 plateau road race does not take the environmental standards of the netherlands and europe seriously. the amount of fine dust is going to increase dramatically. how is it possible that we keep going down this road? we have recently seen that europe will also no longer meet the kyoto standards in this way. this stretch of the a74 is a highway to hell. if we want to get to kyoto, we have to go the other way.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, the ppe-de group attaches great importance to the active participation of the european parliament in the second world summit on the information society. after geneva we are now entering a second phase and we therefore very much appreciate the own-initiative report and also the approach of mrs trautmann. she has organised the intergroup discussion in a very fruitful and good way, but she also knows that we have some criticisms of the presentation of the report. the title of the report 'on the information society' is very ambitious and broad. what is it about? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have therefore proposed to it that it should adopt a less ambitious and more direct formulation, namely 'world summit on the information society, phase two'. we should therefore be keeping a little more abreast of the communication presented by mrs reding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. access to the internet, special attention to ict and education worldwide, online governance and good participatory democracy are essential. the high-technology ict is not only at the heart of our lisbon agenda, but also in terms of its implications for developing countries. a combination of education and networking and related services is of particular importance for developing countries. it is good that we reflect on the support that the eu can offer in this context. then the instruments we discussed. the ppe group is in favour of an independent framework of regulators who oversee matters such as access, freedom of expression and information, cultural diversity and multilingualism. we therefore do not support further legislative regulation and we support the existing current basis for online government. we also discussed free and public search programs here. we shall not support the amendments tabled in this connection. president. - last week, and we have just heard it, mrs reding unveiled her plans for e-2010. it places ict in the context of the development of economic growth and job creation. - i'm going to be fine. economic growth and a social model go very well together here. e2010 focuses on a competitive and open internal market, increasing eu investment, information and communication technology and promoting an inclusive information society to reduce the gap between the haves and the have-nots, and this is precisely what is driving the alignment with union policies. the gap is still huge. it is a great wish of us, the ppe-de group, to give this a global and concrete expression in the form of projects, and it goes without saying that this requires a financial basis. the confidence in that has not increased much in the past week. that is the subject of a follow-up debate.
the commission should reply to parliament’s question as to whether the uk properly applied the non-life insurance directive between 1978 and 2001. as this question relates to the internal market, there are no grounds to refuse to make such a reply. in november 2003 commissioner bolkestein refused to give a proper answer. the committees responsible then asked the president of parliament to take legal action against the commission. a few months later it was indicated that the necessary legal requirements would not have been met. now again, a year later, a new resolution has been tabled. colleagues, we are now eight years on from what was in this case the first of many petitions. it is almost two years since the overwhelming vote on the first resolution on the lloyd’s affair. thousands of citizens were driven into bankruptcy and are now, as we speak, still at risk. some have committed suicide. this is the result of deliberate and systematic deception in the lloyd’s affair. when it is dealing with a petition, not the role, but the credibility of this parliament is at stake. if the european citizens write to us to turn to us for help, and member states fail, a successful case before the european court of justice would enhance parliament’s role in the examination of petitions. commissioner, if no progress is made, i must conclude that parliament is unable to help the european citizens who ask for its help. in that case, i must apply other techniques in an effort to wake this house; to get justice for tens of thousands of european citizens who are terrorised by this affair.
president. - one of the unfinished business of european cooperation is european and monetary union. when it was founded in maastricht, there were still enthusiastic europeans with a vision, like jacques delors. his objective with monetary union was twofold: the european council in madrid in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, called for the creation of a european monetary system, which would create stability in exchange rates and inflation trends, and take a step towards a political union in which prosperity and well-being for european citizens would be guaranteed. the first one went very well. we have a stable euro that has withstood major currency crises and inflation that is so low that economists are already worried about it. but we seem to be further away from that second aspect, political union, these days than ever before. although, sometimes crises lead to surprising leaps forward. the member states which abandoned their national currencies for the single euro without entering into further political union and adopting a single macroeconomic and fiscal policy needed guarantees to prevent the savings of one member state from being undermined by the irresponsible borrowing of the other. they did not want to interfere too much in each other's political choices for fiscal policy, and so they created the stability and growth pact with a corresponding sanctions system, a pact based on mistrust. it set quantitative standards for the net result of annual government budgets, the size of the national debt, etc. at the end of the last century, that worked, but in the economic situation of recent years, those rules proved too rigid. so, in pure rational terms, it was logical and sensible to change those rules and to put that goal of stability and growth back at the centre. but at the same time a number of large member states got into trouble and they are opposing the commission's intervention and the sanctions of their fellow finance ministers. the european commission's rightful adaptation to make the pact more intelligent thus coincided with the prestige battle between member states. commissioner almunia was mainly focused on sensible reform but the eco-feminists were mainly concerned with creating space for their own excuse to break the rules. so there has been a lot of heated debate on this and generally the criticism has been directed mainly at the latter. the european central bank, for example, was very negative about the corrective part, but could be found in the preventive part of the pact: take account of business cycles, long-term debt positions, etc. the storm's gone. the pact itself has not changed, but we are now dealing with a state of those budgets. the curious thing is that we have adopted the regulation on the controversial corrective part, that it is only subject to an advisory procedure and that it has now entered into force since the last vote, but that we now have a regulation on the other, preventive part at second reading. let me put that aside for a moment. the commission has therefore adopted a number of amendments to that regulation, but the result of adopting those amendments by a qualified majority would be that the regulation could not enter into force. i would therefore recommend that we do not do that, but that we now accept that in parliament, as the commission has wisely done, because then those two regulations - to which we attach more importance than to the first - can come into force at the same time. let us at least give jean-claude juncker, who has had such a difficult time in recent times, the success and the result he has achieved during the luxembourg presidency.
mr president, very briefly, it is clear from the voting list, but i have learnt from experience that it is very good to point it out at length. this is not an amendment to amend the statute but an amendment to the legislative resolution. irrespective of the rumours that have been going around the house, it refers to the expense regime that was agreed to in the members’ statute, namely the travel expenses at real costs, not all the expenses.
in writing. our party, the socialist party in the netherlands, voted against the draft membership statute on 17 december 2003. we did not oppose a unitary wage, but what was proposed then was far too high. we also thought it important that this salary could be subject to national taxation and that the travel allowance should be effectively limited to actual expenditure. our experience now is that you can pay back more than half of that annually. in the dutch parliament we asked the government not to approve this document in the council. the amendment which we are voting on today is still not what we want. the salary must be less than €7000,-- and we flatly reject article 9.3. we are aware that a negative vote cannot bring about any further improvements. now that the maximum has been reached, we consider it a victory in our long struggle against misrepresentation. acceptance of this proposal is a defeat for those who have resisted for years because they found a status beneath their dignity, salaries and allowances too low and financial controls too intrusive. by voting against, they can make it clear that they want to be shameless pickpockets.
mr president, the two items – the lauk report on the european central bank, and the report on the communication strategy on the euro – were originally to be debated jointly. that made sense, because president trichet of the european central bank would have been present at the debate. when, at a later stage, the two items were separated, it meant that president trichet would be present only for the lauk report and therefore would be unable to discuss the communication strategy on the euro with us. that is a pity both for us and for president trichet who, i understand, is keen to be part of that debate. it makes more sense to have a joint debate on the two reports to enable president trichet to participate on both reports, rather than on the annual report of the european central bank alone. that is the reason for our request.
the commission's communication on the communication strategy for the euro has been somewhat broadened by the committee on economic and monetary affairs into a discussion on the current state of the euro and what we should do with it. this debate is taking place at a time when the whole political debate on europe is under pressure. i don't think we can turn a blind eye to that now. i believe that many of us - myself included - felt that when the euro was introduced in 1999, and particularly in 2002, it would bring europe closer to its citizens. that citizens, especially those in the euro zone, would hold europe in their hands every day and that this would help people to feel more connected to europe. i think, however, that we must conclude that this did not happen. i have seen in my own country, but i also see in other countries in the euro zone or countries which could join, that the euro has in some respects even proved to be a block. i am very sorry about that, but it is a finding we have had to make. that's actually a stupid situation, because if we look at how the euro works, that's great, of course. cheaper financing options for all, interest rates are lower than ever, and this encourages investment and consumption, and offers real benefits to consumers, for example through low mortgage rates and cheaper loans. there is increased price transparency within a stricter management of monetary policy by the european central bank. this will lead to a stable environment for the euro and low inflation. look at the countries of the 2001-2002 conversion, where inflation was only 2.3%. a great success. the euro has increased the resilience of euro area economies to financial crises. without the euro, 11 september or 11 march 2004 or the accounting scandals of 2002 would have caused much greater turbulence. that's not what happened. we owe that to the euro. the exchange rate risk has been removed, travel within the euro area is easier, all kinds of hassle has been eliminated and the cost of exchanging currencies has been eliminated. consumers benefit from the strong euro. commodities and oil on the world market are paid in dollars and the favourable exchange rate, at least until the referendums in france and the netherlands, ensures relatively low fuel and food prices for european consumers. there is an increase in trade within the european union, 10% for all countries combined and 17% for some countries such as the netherlands, spain, belgium and austria. i am not even mentioning the fact that the euro enjoys a high reputation on the international financial markets, as is shown by its important role as an international reserve currency. despite all these successes - and i think this shows that the euro is perhaps one of the most successful, if not the most successful, project of the european union to date - we see that many ordinary consumers apparently disagree with us. that means that we have a major problem, similar to the problem we also had in the constitutional debate. what is the basis for this? i think mainly the problem of inflation. president trichet, you said something about this in our monetary dialogue on 14 march which i thought was very good. i think we have not communicated well to the public about inflation and have lost some of our credibility in countries which have now adopted the euro. i've noticed in my contacts with civilians that this is almost beyond repair. when i say: "inflation has been very limited", the answer is: "you are lying". if i say, "yes, but statistical agencies and eurostat say that", they say, "no, but i'm not sure". "yes, but they're lying too". the credibility is limited. we have obviously not been able to explain how inflation, which was real in 2002, has disappeared. consumers are not crazy. we have not been able to explain to them what caused the inflation and so it is all blamed on the euro. we, with all our institutions, must take the blame. of course, all the stability pact stuff is added to that. i therefore welcome the amendment by the epp colleagues on this subject. the socialist group also has a good amendment on the lisbon process, which is not getting off the ground. it is important that we resolve these issues, because the new member states will soon have to deal with the euro. the commission has already made a number of amendments to this effect, including those tabled by the committee and by the members from the new member states, which i believe have enriched the report. it is important that we strike a good note with them when the euro is introduced in those countries, but also with the citizens of the present euro member states, because we are faced with their judgment. that is also why i ask the european central bank to report to us annually. not just in banking jargon and economics about how well the euro is doing, but also about what the euro has really meant to the average consumer. it is regrettable that the ecb, or at least mr gonzález páramo, has informed me in a letter that this raises a great many methodological problems. i understand that, and this letter was also written for the crisis we're in. i would, however, be very grateful if the european central bank would reconsider this request. i think the european commission should also jump into that hole. it is too easy to think 'the euro is here, let's just do it'. the average citizen will not accept that. it's a problem we can solve. given the way you always appear to us in committee, mr trichet, i think you are the one who is in a very good position to solve this problem and, above all, we, parliament, the ecb and the commission, could do very well together.
president. - mr commissioner, i am very disappointed that we are not making any progress on air quality. action is really, really needed. the air quality needs to improve. the commission has worked very hard on a good strategy, but at the last minute it is turning its ears to industry, and therefore to the most conservative part of industry. the world needs clean technology. the chinese, indians and koreans also have problems with air quality. european industry can respond to this with innovation and a spirit of innovation. the environment is an important part of the lisbon strategy, as john bowes said earlier. environmental innovation is helping the european economy to move forward. this was recognised by the commission in february, but unfortunately it is not being put into practice at the moment. how can citizens have confidence in a european commission which refuses to tell polluters to produce cleaner? how can citizens have confidence in a europe that tolerates 370,000 premature deaths a year due to air pollution? what kind of europe is it that refuses to take action to improve this situation substantially? is that the europe you want? improving air quality is no easy task. the netherlands shows how difficult it is to meet the standards. the netherlands has made a great effort, albeit late, to comply with the european commitments, but it is clear that resource measures are needed to guarantee clean air. we need clean cars, clean diesels, clean production processes, but we must also note, unfortunately, that the rules of the internal market make clear policies difficult and sometimes even impossible. in view of the gravity of the situation and the commission's inability to act, i call on the member states to abandon the rules of the internal market in the overriding interest of public health. this is not a simple request, because i am very concerned about the internal market, but i am convinced that public health must be given priority over the market. especially now that the commission refuses to take the lead.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i share the commissioner's analysis of air pollution with my colleagues. however, i am disappointed, as mrs corbey is, that the thematic strategy has not yet been published. our colleagues are now asking for a date for that publication. we read in the newspaper that commissioner dimas was furious. i have noted this with pleasure, but i have not yet noticed much in this debate of mr dimas's fury. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. if the european commission does not do that, you have a problem. there's no time to lose for the induction now. euro 5 pm two and a half is an extremely good strategy and belongs in the thematic strategy. if you want to regain the confidence of the public, you will have to make sure that you do everything possible to tackle and combat crossborder air pollution effectively. we can do that with the thematic strategy, but then we should not wait any longer and now strike nails with heads and go through. commissioner, we will support you in this, i promise you that, but we also expect you to do your best.
i am grateful to the president-in-office of the council for his reply. i would like to thank in particular mr rocard and mr mccarthy, who have done almost a mer à boire with this directive which has caused so much tension and on which there are a number of currents in this house representing the different opinions on this subject. the aim of this directive is mainly to prevent the trivial patents that have been passed on to the european patent office in munich in recent years, including software as such, which can apparently be patented. i understand, and we all agree, that the common objective of this directive is to make this impossible. in principle, therefore, the purpose of this directive is to improve and strengthen article 52 of the munich convention. as a lawyer, i went over that article again. legislation cannot be clearer than article 52 of the munich convention. if there is one simple thing, it is this article. the problem is that it is misinterpreted or at least interpreted differently in all the member states, which creates enormous legal uncertainty. it is very important to prevent trivial patents, because we have to protect and strengthen innovation and research, and therefore also competition and employment, within europe. without a reward, we have no inventors. so i think there should be a fair system of reward for inventors who can protect their ideas, their intellectual property. if not, i fear that after the labour-intensive manufacturing that is already leaving for china, a lot of research and development departments of companies will also leave. mostly from multinationals, followed by small and medium-sized enterprises. if that happens, i think we should regret that we in europe have such great difficulty in legislating, that we show a great lack of initiative and that we dare not legislate to strengthen our global competitiveness. i think it is a pity for our children, for our posterity, if we do not dare to do so. i hope therefore that a strong directive will be drawn up and perhaps that will be the case. what's the biggest problem? the main problem is that this house, the european commission and the council do not have democratic control over the european patent office, and that is what we want. that is why we liberals have tabled an amendment, amendment no 65, which calls for the whole of this directive to be rejected and for the commission to come up with a european community patent so that this house can control the european patent office. it is then covered by european rules and i think we have a legally correct medium and a legally correct organisation. we can then, and this is particularly in the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises, ensure harmonised legal procedures and clarity. at the moment, if a small company wants to sue because its patent has been infringed, it costs millions and a small company can never afford that. i hope that tonight we as the liberal and democratic group will reach a well-balanced position, but i hope that the whole directive will be voted down tomorrow so that the commission can come forward with a well-founded proposal for a european patent, embedded in a directive such as this, so that we have a harmonized and balanced directive.
we have a proposal on patents for software-related innovations, mr president, because the current practice is not optimal. different views on whether software can be patented or not make the legal framework less clear and the advent of new legislation in this area is understandable. the question is whether the common position offers a balanced solution which is desirable for both large and small enterprises. unfortunately, even experts have not been able to say whether the directive will promote or hinder innovation in smes because of the obstacles they face. the fear of undesirable effects among small innovative enterprises could not be eliminated. three aspects are of particular importance to smes. first of all, the accessibility of patents. the directive does not provide a solution to the high costs of obtaining a patent. secondly, the extent to which smes can protect themselves if they hold a patent. it could be that another company is breaking into it. is it practical for them to monitor that continuously? in addition, they do not have the human and financial resources to protect themselves when accused of infringing the patents of other companies. the directive in this form risks a considerable legalisation of software-related innovations. thirdly, there is the problem of high licensing costs when small businesses use software from a patent holder. in addition, it is unclear what effect the directive would have on the use and development of open standards software. the european parliament has tried to address these concerns with amendments, but the amendments have received little response from the council. the common position is now not convincing enough and the council's willingness to accept it seems to be nil. the common position must therefore be rejected.
the way in which the software patent proposal has been put forward is, in my view, a scandal. large companies like microsoft see money in software patents and they have helped draft the european commission's proposal through the business software alliance. this was discovered by chance, because the name of the author had been forgotten to be removed from the document. the commission's proposal was based on the intellectual culture between the administrators of the patent offices, the patent lawyers of large companies and the patent administrators of the european commission. the european parliament took corrective action in 2003, but the council of ministers, through dubious voting procedures, got the proposal back on the table. there was no qualified majority of member states and requests from several member states to reopen negotiations were quickly ignored. the debate on software patents is also questionable in the netherlands. while the parliament was misinformed by the government, dutch officials worked on the proposal within the eu committees. the dutch minister ignored parliament in the decision-making in the council of ministers. i therefore support the amendments rejecting this proposal. the european parliament is making a fool of itself in my view by tolerating the way in which this bill has been brought about.
mr. chairman, in 1991, microsoft was a small company that had to outdo the big ones. then bill gates told us that the industry would come to a standstill if all our old knowledge were subject to patents. some giants might then impose unlimited payments on newcomers. now that his company is one of the big ones, his lobbyists are telling a very different story. for a long time, opponents have been taking action against software patents. they have perseverance and good arguments. i agree with the foundation for a free information infrastructure. this foundation says that software patents threaten the freedom of software development and that software patents are bad for innovation because they promote monopoly and cause higher prices. software companies, internet stores, schools and consumers are affected. do we want to see computers handed over to one or more software providers? tomorrow, at least 367 votes are needed to amend or reject the council text. i call on all opponents of software patents to come out in force. and then we'll choose open source and creativity over concentration of power and monopoly.
in writing. the vvd members of the alde group abstained from voting on the directive on the control of potato cystitis, because they consider that this directive is not proportionate to the seriousness of the problem and, moreover, does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the implementation of this directive will entail high costs due to the many sampling operations required by the provisions of the directive. the directive will also lead to high administrative costs in connection with the data registers to be set up. in addition, it is likely that these costs will be shared differently between the public sector and the private sector in the member states, leading to distortions of competition.
in writing. the european parliament and the council have had intense and emotional debates over the past seven years on the presence of plasticizers in plastic toys. i regret that the debate was dominated by emotion and not by reason. i was very disturbed by this at first and second reading. the common position is not based entirely on scientific grounds. the tightening of the common position adopted today by parliament and already accepted by the council is even further from what can be considered acceptable on scientific grounds. i cannot therefore agree to this tightening. but i'm also realistic enough to see that a counter-vote is no longer relevant. that is why i abstained on the compromise amendments. for further explanation, i refer to my contribution to the debate of 5 july 2000. the arguments i used then are just as relevant today.
in writing. the rapporteur seems to be blind to the great disadvantages that the euro has brought, including in his own country. in the netherlands, the introduction of the euro was followed by large price rises, a fact that mr maatens' party colleague, finance minister zalm, has denied for years. it is also clear that this minister lied in parliament about the devaluation of the guilder. it is not surprising, then, that the dutch people are not happy with the euro. my party called for a referendum on the single currency at the time: the commission has already made a number of proposals. and now mr maaten thinks he can make up for this lack of respect for the opinion of the people with a propaganda campaign? then there are the campaigns to be carried out in member states which have not yet adopted the euro. this is the best part. member states decide for themselves what kind of currency they want. we would not like it if russia joined our campaign to introduce the ruble into europe. let the swedish, british and danish citizens decide. unfortunately, the dutch people were not allowed to express themselves in this way.
in writing. the only advantage of the euro is that people do not have to change money when they go on holiday in another euro country. for the rest, most people in euro countries see mainly disadvantages. they have to pay higher consumer prices and the value of their savings is falling. they are angry at the continuing cuts in public services that are being implemented to limit public spending and thus meet the requirements of the stability pact. mr maaten shows in his report that he is a lover of the euro, a 'euro-phile'. it is laughable that he calls the euro 'the most successful european project ever'. does he know that the euro was the reason for some people to vote against the eu constitution? how does he explain that member states without the euro are doing much better economically ? his priority is to support the governments of sweden, denmark and the uk in convincing the public of the success of the euro. such a weak offer is similar to the "yes" campaign for the eu constitution in the netherlands: the euro would be a fantastic product but people don't understand it yet. it is short-sighted and patronizing to prey on serious criticism of people with transparent campaigns.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, today is a great day for the european parliament. we are today emphatically pursuing the line of cohesion policy, solidarity in europe, and we thank the rapporteurs for their forward-looking vision. in today's debate i would like to limit myself to the new objective 2 and objective 3, the promotion of competition, innovation and interregional cooperation in europe. this is a total package of some eur 40 billion in the commission's proposals. it also shows that these objectives make an essential contribution to the lisbon objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the committee on industry, research and energy i have proposed amendments to make private cofinancing more widely available, in the first place for the benefit of the private sector. the driving force of innovation is business. lisbon is setting the course. the government puts 1% and the business community puts 2% on the table. secondly, a concrete link between the structural funds and objective 2 in the research and development budget. the possibilities for acceleration through open innovation, research and knowledge in intensive production go hand in hand. the proposals of commissioner verheugen, the cip, also go in this direction. thirdly, to strengthen the possibilities for smes to draw directly on these funds. public knowledge must be made available to smes as quickly as possible, and i would also like to mention the knowledge vouchers. fourthly, a fourth provision on access to funds for all border regions. these must remain available for this purpose. after all, lisbon does not stop at the border. in conclusion: the 'lisbonisation' process has just begun and competition on a global scale is intensifying. i come from the netherlands and i must say that this debate on the new agenda for the structural funds has not been held, or has been held only partially, so it must be raised a notch. we live in the age of the tour de france, but this is a tour de force. i think that in the future debate in parliament and with the council, on the criteria of the erdf, for example, we should talk more about the effective implementation of the lisbon objective.
mr president, in our market economy, large, often international, companies are the ones who set the tone. reducing costs through specialisation and scaling up are key words. the natural advantages of the regions determine the location of the establishment. as a result, not every activity can be carried out profitably in every region. the circumstances often outweigh the financial incentives of the government. i therefore have no illusions that european structural policy will be able to perform structural miracles. it is too unrealistic, too inflexible and too limited in scope. this does not exclude the possibility that european structural policy may, under certain circumstances, contribute to a temporary reduction of regional and local economic bottlenecks. practice has shown that. the reports of our colleagues are therefore worth at least some of our support, with special attention to some of the bottlenecks. i am thinking in particular of the possibility of including private resources in the calculation of cofinancing, the necessary involvement of regional and local partners in the preparation and implementation of the plans, and the effective and efficient use of the available resources within the time limits set for this purpose. any reduction in the total budget by the council will have to be borne by all the regions. in the future, we will have to focus on the knowledge element rather than the production element. that is our strength, as practice shows. let us therefore leave room at every level to exploit this strength and to use the stronger regions to improve the situation in the weaker ones.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). we are all responsible for this. solidarity must also be shown with the new member states and the poor regions. the structural funds should aim to ensure that reconstruction in these new member states proceeds as quickly and successfully as possible. europe must show solidarity with the other countries. we can't let ourselves be choked by self-interest. this is a self-interest which is not shared by the citizens of the 15 old member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then the esf. the work done by our colleague, mr silva peneda, is excellent. the esf review which is now being proposed is important. - why? - why? the money is being used for the lisbon objectives with a strong focus on the new countries. i wholeheartedly support that. i have also asked the netherlands this morning what we expect from the esf. the answer i got from the netherlands will surprise you: they were very clear, they didn't want anything. this is in sharp contrast to the views of municipalities and civil society organisations in my country, which are opposed to social exclusion of all citizens. it is therefore right that the esf should also provide jobs and training for all those who are socially excluded. and that's wherever the problems are. in short, with the funds, and in particular the esf, we must not build new walls. the problem of the big cities is everywhere. we need to learn and innovate across europe. there is added value, also for the 15 old member states. europe can play a stimulating role not only by means of directives but also in this sense, because we are still not completely out of the woods in the old 15.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in turkey is not so bad as it was in the past. however, women's rights organizations told her that under the new legislation in turkey, she could go to court to have the marriage declared invalid. the woman told her parents that she was going to do this, and they saw no point in an arranged marriage, and the marriage was dissolved. this is just one example of the way in which turkey is working to improve the position of women. in its report on the role of women in the political, economic and social life of turkey, the european parliament's committee on women's rights welcomed the new turkish legislation. turkey has made great progress in women's rights in the new constitution, the labour law and the new criminal law. the time has come to put the written word into practice. turkey has already started this work, but it must be continued. respect for women's rights is an absolute prerequisite for membership of the european union. the report calls on the european commission to put women's rights high on the agenda in discussions with turkey. commissioner rehn explained yesterday in parliament how the negotiations with turkey will be structured. i am glad that he said that women's rights will be a top priority and that it will be a central issue in the annual progress report on turkey. the turkish government has also indicated that it takes the report very seriously. in response to earlier discussions in turkey on this report, it has already been decided to set up a women's rights committee in the turkish parliament and the government has already promised to build more shelters for women victims of violence. the vast majority of turkish women's rights organisations support the findings of my report. the vote in the committee on women's rights in the european parliament also showed that there is broad support for the report. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report. i would like to thank the epp in particular for the good cooperation in the committee on women's rights. of course, the broad support for the report does not mean that we agree on everything. i would like to mention a few other points which may be relevant to the vote tomorrow. in turkey, women's political participation is very low. the report proposes a quota system as a possible solution to this problem, which could help to increase the number of women in politics in the short term. quotas are presented as a possible solution to a problem, not as a condition. the european union cannot of course demand of turkey something which is not yet widely accepted in its own member states. i, and the women's organizations in turkey with me, ask you to support us on this point. the liberals have tabled an amendment on this subject in which i can accept the addition of a statement calling on the government, the turkish government, to accept its responsibility. i ask you to support my oral amendment which i shall be presenting in the house the day after tomorrow and which the liberals say they can accept. then there is the matter of the headscarf. in turkey, wearing religious clothing is forbidden in universities and in government offices. this is the result of the strict separation of church and state in turkey. if the women do not remove the headscarf, they cannot go to university or get a job in the government. my report echoes the call in the eurlings report for the turkish government to ensure that all girls and women can enjoy their right to education regardless of their background. i support the amendment by mr szymánski of the uen, which indirectly calls for the lifting of the ban on the wearing of the headscarf. it is not because i do not know the negative consequences of this ban, but because europe itself has no uniform policy on whether to wear headscarves. we cannot therefore ask turkey to do something which we have not yet decided ourselves. the european court of human rights has also recently ruled that turkey does not infringe women's rights by this ban. each country may have its own policy on religious symbols. turkey must therefore find a sensible solution to the problem of the headscarf. i would like to contribute to finding a solution, but first of all by discussing the problem carefully in the joint parliamentary committee on the european union and turkey. this is a subject which must be debated in turkey and in europe. of course, we as a parliament cannot solve this problem ourselves, but we can contribute to the debate. finally, i would like to call on everyone to vote in favour of this report. it is logical, because it is my own report, but i have been so committed to good cooperation with other parties on this report because i think it is important that turkey sees that the call to work hard on women's rights comes from the whole of the european parliament. i thank you in advance for your help and for your attention and look forward to your input to this debate.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that we meet in this house late at night to discuss issues of passenger data. commissioner, you mentioned the case of klm and you reassured us that the way in which the us obtained the data was perfectly legitimate. however, like mrs roure, i, quite frankly, am not reassured because we never got a clear answer. in this case, the us acquired the ‘apis’ data, which they apparently got from mexico. where did mexico get the data? was it allowed to transfer the data to the united states? does such an agreement also apply to flights through us airspace? we would like a precise answer, not general reassurances. we were in the united states last week, discussing this issue. i have the feeling that the united states might be accessing the databases directly on the basis of the pnr agreement. secondly, i would like to know about the us administration’s no-fly lists. you say that the people on those lists are not necessarily dangerous, but i still find it remarkable that the us administration considers them to be dangerous enough to deny them access to us airspace and send them back to the european union without notifying the eu authorities; it only notifies the airlines. they are apparently considered to be dangerous in the united states but not in europe. as regards the annual joint review, you said that you will review issues of protection of privacy. i hope that you will also include the effectiveness of the measures in that review. the word ‘security’ has been mentioned here a number of times, but i would like to know how many crooks have been caught, how many attacks have been prevented and how many mistakes – false positives – there have been. the joint review was supposed to take place in may. it has now been postponed until september. i understand that is because the us was unable or unwilling to provide us with the data requested. could the commissioner shed some light on that?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president, when we discussed the system of trade preferences for developing countries in march, we asked the commission to review the rules of origin, particularly to promote better use of the system. we are therefore glad that the commission is doing this and we had the first proposal in march. the final proposals are expected in the autumn. in that context, i have three questions. the first concerns cumulation. the commission has indicated that it wants to strengthen regional cumulation, which i think is extremely important, and that it wants to go further with regard to cross-regional or, if possible, global cumulation. can the commission say anything more about this? the second question concerns the use of the generalized system of preferences. the greatest benefits are mainly realized by only a few countries, including china. the challenge will be to shape the adjustments in such a way that the countries most in need will actually use the system and be able to do so. how does the commission intend to achieve this? is the commission also considering a lower regional cumulation threshold for the ldcs? finally, the possibility of possible abuse and fraud. that's a real problem, you know. the adjustment is intended to simplify, inter alia, the origin criteria and administrative procedures, and to relax the conditions for regional cumulation. a risk analysis was provided for this point. my question to the commission is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has already made this analysis and what he can say about it.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the strengths of his report. for example, the replacement of us and british troops by un security forces. this will bring about a significant improvement in the security situation. i agree with the rapporteur and i would urge mr straw to do more to promote this. not only by saying that he agrees with this here in parliament, but also by, for example, making it more difficult in the security council. another strong point is the need for national reconciliation and the punishment of all forms of impunity. i appreciate that the rapporteur in his report wants to join a number of positive developments in iraq, such as the elections in january 2005. that being said, however, i cannot ignore two important points of failure in the report. the deteriorating security situation. it is true that in the long run the replacement of these troops will improve the situation, but at present the pace is simply too slow and the direction too unclear. i am deeply convinced that the security situation will only improve structurally if the transfer of powers is more radical and faster. the second. i must return to the ambiguity about the beginning of the war, particularly in the first considerations. i agree with the rapporteur that the european union and the european parliament too will have to focus on the future, on the future cooperation between the european union and iraq. however, without a balanced assessment of the past, effective and united action is not possible, not even in this parliament. that is why my group has tabled a number of amendments, including one on the lack of un credentials, which underlines this again. the majority of my group considers the adoption of these amendments to be crucial to their support for the report. president. - ladies and gentlemen, if we do not learn from past mistakes, we risk making them again. and we must prevent that at all costs.
the commission is also proposing that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the european institutions can make a significant contribution to curbing this almost exclusive arab jihadism. - how did you do that? the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in these circumstances, council and commission, can there be no question of an association agreement with damascus? i would also like to hear from the council whether there is any recruitment of al qaeda jihadists within the european union and whether there is any financing of terrorism against iraq by mosques based in europe. i am now missing a clear word about the disruptive arab influence on iraq's overall reconstruction process for the first time in the dimitrakopoulos report. i am much more in favour of his clear request to the commission to ensure that all eu projects in iraq are carefully accounted for. the taxpayers in the eu member states have every right to do so. moreover, mr dimitrakopoulos is addressing a second major obstacle to the reconstruction of iraq. the widespread evil of corruption within the country's administrative apparatus. here too the european union can make a valuable contribution to the future prospects of the two-stream country. corruption and security are closely linked. "only transparency can pull us out of this quagmire", kurdish politician mohammed toufik rightly observed. clean aid missions in iraq for the european union. mr president, i would like to add that i have great respect for and wish all the best to the troops of the united states, britain and other international forces in their efforts to achieve a better ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. first of all, i would like to congratulate the organisers of the campaign "global call to action against poverty" on their initiative. it is a good initiative at an important time, as discussions are taking place this autumn in the wto and the g8, as well as on the millennium development goals. poverty remains an unacceptable problem. the fight against poverty is at the heart of the policies for the millennium development goals. as we know, the problem of poverty is greatest in africa, particularly in sub-saharan africa. as rapporteur for the african development strategy, i am pleased that africa has been chosen as a priority by both the commissioner and the british presidency. i also welcome the indication of the approach as expressed by them today. the resolution calls for the following: of course, it is good to allocate more money to the fight against poverty, but as has just been said, the solution to effectively combating poverty is not just money. more important is that the causes of poverty be tackled. i am thinking of mismanagement, corruption, trade barriers and the like. i believe that the european union can do something in at least two ways. firstly, in its own relations with the poor countries and, secondly, in its own internal policy. emergency aid will remain necessary at times, but in order to achieve stable societies, we must promote good governance, capacity building and economic empowerment, particularly of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as good social infrastructure, good education and good health care in our contacts with poor countries. in our own policies we must above all work to improve policy coherence, coordination and effectiveness. as for the debt burden, debt relief is not a panacea for poverty. debt relief alone does not guarantee development, does not solve problems such as corruption, lack of rule of law, human rights violations and unstable economic situations, and does not automatically benefit the poorest. in the end, it is the countries themselves who are responsible for the future of their country. we can only help them to do so, but we must do something about the quality and effectiveness of the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to quote my favourite dutch artist, thé lau of the scene: "everyone is of the world and the world is of everyone". that was the message of live aid on 140 television stations. now the task is ours, politicians. we have six months, with gleneagles, the un millennium summit and hong kong, to reach a turning point. 2015 in the millennium development goals is moving away from us at the moment. we're doing the wrong thing, but we have three meetings right now where we could make a difference. i would like to mention four important acts for the eu presidency. first of all, what jack straw said: "we are going to abolish export subsidies". i hope very much that he was speaking on behalf of the council. a round for free. secondly, debt relief, provided we use it for development. but not from the existing aid budgets, because then it's a cigar from its own box. thirdly, five of the eight mdgs address two of the key conditions for development: basic education and health care. we would spend 35% of the available eu budget on this and 20% on basic education and basic health care. the shameful reality is that we only spend 9%. that is where tony benn and our commissioner together can make a big difference. fourthly, we must focus on good governance. the local population must be used. use and invest in them to achieve good governance in africa. i quote: "there comes a time when we hear a certain call, when the world must come together as one". 20 years ago, the usa for africa. i hope that this call will be heard in the three meetings over the next six months. i wish you success.
the rapporteur. mr president, this subject is not as exciting as the one before, but it is important. i am grateful for the opportunity to briefly explain my report. we have negotiated hard with the council in recent weeks to reach an agreement at first reading and finally we have reached a compromise which i think is very defensible. of the 24 amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, 20 are to be found in whole or in part in the compromise text. i would like to make a comment on the way the negotiations have proceeded. i believe that we have operated here on the edge of what is still acceptable. the council has repeatedly proposed new amendments and has been very cautious about the amendments proposed by the parliament's delegation. i regret that and hope that in future negotiations on other dossiers i shall find a more cooperative attitude on the part of the council representatives. the last point i would like to make is amendment no 53. this is also part of the compromise package, but unfortunately not all the groups were able to agree with it. however, i would point out that there will be no agreement at first reading unless this amendment is also adopted. i therefore count on everyone's support on this point and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution to the creation of this agreement.
the rapporteur the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we can accept that amendment if there is an addition which reads: 'and calls on the turkish government to support this;' the amendment now reads in full: 'suggests that the political parties should review their party structures and adopt adequate strategies to reach a better balance on women and men in elected assemblies, including positive measures such as quotas, and calls on the turkish government to support this;'
in writing. the vvd is pleased that an overwhelming majority of this house has supported the alde amendment to reject the common position. the vvd is against a sectoral approach to european patent law. the vvd favours an integrated approach and calls on the european commission to come forward with a proposal for a single community patent. this provides more legal certainty. the current cumbersome and costly system of granting patents can thus be replaced by a more effective regime. we call on the european commission to start the debate as soon as possible in the legal affairs committee on the harmonization of existing european patent legislation on the basis of article 95, which would also give parliament a co-decision in this area, which would also allow democratic control of the epo. we also call on all the lobbying organisations to use the same heavy artillery to persuade the french government to abandon its opposition to a single official language for the community patent in order to offer a competitive and innovative future to french youth. the lisbon objective is not just a matter of words, but of deeds.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. this safe haven was an indefensible island in the midst of the much larger serbian republic which was and is considered by another population group as its own safe haven. the commission has not yet taken the necessary measures to ensure that the inevitable surrender does not turn into a retaliatory act and even into a massacre. my group does not believe that the final outcome would have been really different if there had been a centralised common foreign policy of the european union or if there had been a mandate that would have allowed the use of more force by dutchbat and support by aerial bombardments. if we want to guarantee the peaceful coexistence of the three peoples in bosnia, we must seek solutions which are agreed by all concerned and not by one or two groups which we prefer. only a federal model which recognizes diversity, like belgium and switzerland, can do justice. we must start from the reality that the north and east are strongly oriented towards serbia and the south-west towards croatia and that these areas together constitute the majority of the population. that is why bosnia-herzegovina needs open borders with its neighbours. any attempt to create a centralised unitary state can only lead to a permanent struggle for power between the various groups of the population. no one should be able to subjugate another group. that must be the lesson of srebrenica and the chaotic functioning of the dayton peace agreement.
mr president, we are of course thinking today in particular of the most horrific event in recent european history, the murder of thousands of men in the muslim enclave of srebrenica in bosnia-herzegovina in 1995. the story of srebrenica has had a huge impact in europe and the world, but especially in my country, the netherlands. dutch blue helmets then proved unable to provide the protection that citizens, residents and refugees needed. and ten years later, that debacle is still the subject of conversation in the netherlands. the feeling of horror and sympathy for the victims of this mass murder and their relatives is great. our thoughts go out to those who are most concerned that the co-responsibles for this crime, the then bosnian president karajic and general mladic, are still at large. but remembering must also go beyond sympathy for the victims. we have to learn from the lessons and try to look ahead. the first is our commitment to the balkan countries, which we must support in overcoming the experience of the wars they have experienced. with the past in mind, we must also look to the future. the european union must provide support within a clear framework in which the prospect of integration into the eu, as promised by the european council, plays an important role. eu support will help to build peaceful, stable and prosperous societies. it must also be clear that the main bearers of the future are first and foremost the balkan countries themselves. fortunately, there is now peace in bosnia-herzegovina, but the past has not yet been fully dealt with, and this is an obstacle to the functioning of the state and society. important matters such as the return of refugees and the arrest of war crimes suspects are being hampered. for me, coming to terms with the past is also an important part of working towards the future. a second lesson is broader, and it is a lesson that has been much discussed in the netherlands. the 'never again, not in europe, but especially not in the rest of the world' means that vigilance is required to prevent dormant conflicts from escalating into bloody and hopeless situations. we must be more alert and act more quickly and, where necessary, more forcefully when scenarios like srebrenica threaten to develop, to prevent european troops from ever again being in a situation like dutchbat was in ten years ago.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. how could what happened in srebrenica happen and what are the lessons we should learn from it? srebrenica is not only a painful past, srebrenica is also a painful present. residents who still cannot return and languish in refugee camps. children who are being presented with a totally one-sided picture of what happened ten years ago in school, which leaves out a much-needed reconciliation. the identification of victims is so necessary to help relatives accept the terrible fate of their loved ones. identification is expensive and therefore often too slow. what is needed now is not only attention to what happened ten years ago, but also attention to what is happening in srebrenica today, attention, understanding and, where necessary, money to save srebrenica today. the second srebrenica is fortunately not as likely to happen in the balkans today, but the wounds that were inflicted on the entire balkans at that time can only be healed structurally if the balkan countries know that they are welcome in europe. i therefore support the position of the european commission, which has said that the prospect of membership for the balkan countries remains. the balkans are in europe, srebrenica is in europe, let us never forget that lesson.
president. - my group's view of the people's republic of china and the government based on the island of taiwan has been simple for a long time. in 1949 an old, incompetent profiteering clique that was unable to provide a solution to poverty and injustice was rightly driven out by the people. they had fled to an island where the majority of the population did not feel chinese and which was long excluded from china until 1945. on that island, they established a military dictatorship that attempted to launch attacks on the mainland. eventually, that old regime lost its international recognition and was expelled from the united nations. in the meantime, on the mainland, all sorts of interesting experiments were taking place, such as the industrialisation of the countryside and a radical reorganisation of agriculture. the arrival of factories, railroads and dams helped the country move forward. unfortunately, in those experiments, like the great leap forward and the cultural revolution, great mistakes were made because of inexperience, and many people lost their lives. that seemed like the price of a good future. the chinese are now, under the leadership of the heirs of this revolutionary regime, still a country with a future, but the political line has been completely changed. the people's republic is now a super-fast-growing country, but one with great inequality, with death penalty and no democracy or freedom of association. the model is still similar to what has been abandoned in south korea and taiwan. taiwan has developed from a military dictatorship to a parliamentary democracy increasingly similar to europe and japan. the democratic process also includes the desire to have a non-chinese, independent taiwan. in seeking a solution to a 56-year division of what is internationally recognised as chinese territory, we will have to take account of these new developments. only in this way can we help to find peaceful solutions for the future.
president. - mr president, relaxation of the restrictions between china and taiwan would significantly improve the security situation in the far east. the present situation is anything but. the council and the commission have the urgent task of promoting a more businesslike relationship between beijing and taipei. the strong european trading position with both countries not only provides the objective opportunity for this, but also calls for it in its own interest. one thing is clear: the council's totally premature decision to lift the arms embargo against the people's republic, combined with the recent chinese anti-secession law, has greatly increased the regional tension. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. i hope that the council, under the british presidency, will turn back from this unsafe path. the european union, in fulfilling its strategic responsibility for the middle and far east, supports flexible cross-straits relations. time has not stood still in taiwan either. for years now, there has been talk of the development of a national identity of its own. add to that an impressive democratization. this is the heart of the taiwan conflict today. moreover, taiwanese people understandably keep in mind the developments in hong kong in recent years. the council and the commission are certainly not ignoring taiwan commercially. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. support a taiwanese observer mission to the world health organization and give 23 million free taiwanese a voice and a face in international forums. the european union is thus contributing to the much-needed inter-chinese dialogue.
on behalf of the pse group.– mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kauppi, on her well-balanced report, which is supported by most of the political groups and a large majority of the financial services industry. she has been active in finding compromises. we are still working on it: mrs starkevičiūtė from the liberal group, mrs berès and myself so you can see that the issue of clearing and settlement in the eu is really a ladies’ world. mrs kauppi took over from another lady, mrs villiers, who left the european parliament to become a member of the house of commons in britain. my group was not very happy with her approach. in the explanatory statement of this report you can still find a reminder of her approach, which was very much anti-legislation and principally and vehemently against a directive on clearing and settlement. my group and the ppe-de group do not exclude the need for a directive. this was also the starting point in the andria report from a previous parliamentary term. we have chosen not to engage in an ideological battle about whether to have legislation, but to list pragmatically the issues to be taken into account politically, to assess the necessity, feasibility and desirability of legislation or other forms of regulation, and to wait for the factual impact assessments that the commission is currently carrying out before making up our minds definitely. this is a more pragmatic and wise approach and i am happy that we managed to achieve it. nevertheless, i wish to repeat some concerns. i should like to see a decent system of integrated european supervision – also in relation to competition rules. the commission should keep a close eye on anti-competitive developments that could take place in this fragile clearing and settlement market, particularly in relation to possible consolidation of stock exchanges in europe. i have noted that the bundeskartelamt has just given the green light for a possible merger of deutsche börse and the london stock exchange, although this is no longer a real option. the uk competition commission will very soon deliver its opinion on this possible merger or on the other combination of euronext and lse. however, we have already raised the question of whether the european commission should be more proactive and not leave it to the national competition authorities to judge the developments, because the financial markets – in particular the post-market activities – can have an enormous impact on these markets. at least we should monitor the various aspects from the point of view of competition and the impact on the smooth functioning of the european financial markets. my group does not exclude ex ante competition rules as a consequence. unbundling of different elements in the clearance and settlement value chain is not something we propose at this stage, but i would like to have more assurance that cross-subsidies do not exist in this industry and that custodian banks are free to transfer securities outside their home conglomerates. let me finish by saying that cesr – the committee of european securities regulators – has already been active on this issue, which has not always been welcomed by our committee, because what it was doing was not very transparent. it must be said that at least it has been proactive. i hope we can improve on the cooperation and the further elaboration of this regulation on clearing and settlement.
president, commissioner, you are in a world of women. i wonder if you'd be comfortable with that. i'm a little bit at home in the women's world, and i like to get out there, too. the recent years in the european union and the united states have shown that financial markets are particularly sensitive and sometimes strongly responsive to external developments. the stability of markets is not a given. however, this stability is enhanced by effective management and smooth trade settlement based on clear rules. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the organization of that securities trade is complicated. the monitoring of securities trading is not easy either. solutions to these problems by means of a directive do not always produce the desired result. i would like to stress that a solution must be transparent and verifiable. that is in the interests of confidence in the financial markets. in this context, monitoring the development of competition aspects is of great importance. the 2003 resolution already called for a further examination of the competition aspects with a view to developing a transparent market for the settlement of securities transactions. i would like to support the rapporteur's comments on the consequences of introducing a directive. the objective is to remove the giovanini obstacles. these obstacles can be overcome without a directive, by means of coordination and harmonization. i would like to refer in this connection to another crossborder problem which was tackled very successfully at the time, namely the removal of obstacles to crossborder payments. again, there was a complex set of organizations, rules and interests. it has been shown that it is possible to overcome almost insurmountable obstacles. it is therefore time that the single market in securities should no longer be hampered in its crossborder operation by numerous transaction costs. finally, i would like to thank theresa villiers and noora kauppi again for the work they have done on this directive. i think they've done a good job and we're going to move forward with this.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for all the work she has done in cooperation with her colleagues. i would like to make a few comments on the proposal which will be put to the vote. it seems that some members expect very much support for nature policy from the european union. i share that hope, because i too believe that the european union is making a positive contribution to our continent by creating networks of nature reserves. but we must not expect all the good in europe, especially when it comes to the financing of these nature reserves. it is the national authorities, assisted by european experts, who designate these areas. it is therefore acceptable that part of the funding for the conservation of these natural areas should come from the european budget. however, ultimately the responsibility lies primarily with the member states. in my view, it is quite understandable that the funding is falling short of what is needed, as is also emphasized in several amendments. we must only do and finance in a european way what the member states cannot do themselves. we should not turn it around by wanting to pay for everything and then see if the member states want to contribute something. i therefore advocate giving more weight to funding from the member states and only taking action when eu funding is really justified.
president, the global textile sector has undergone a profound transition since the abolition of import quotas in january 2005. the spectacular growth of chinese textile exports is paralleled by the deep crisis of the textile sector within the european union and in developing countries such as bangladesh, cambodia and laos. i share the rapporteur's concern about the strong growth in the volume of chinese textiles on the european market and call on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of the bilateral agreement between the european union and china for the period 2005-2008. i would stress that this agreement is only the beginning of a fair and well-functioning global textile market. the european commission must continue its dialogue with beijing to make it clear that a liberalised world market can only function on a level playing field. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. there can be no question of ignorance, given the precision with which beijing points out to the european union its wto obligations. the rapporteur rightly calls attention to china's compliance with labour directives. in many factories, workers, including many children, are forced to work under miserable conditions. the european commission must pursue an active policy to improve the labour situation in china. this is of great importance not only to chinese workers but also to textile workers in neighbouring countries. textile companies in these countries are being forced by chinese expansion to reduce production costs even further in order to remain internationally competitive. i am disappointed, however, that the rapporteur is too one-sided in his view of the future of the european textile industry in the light of a euro-mediterranean area. the european union should not focus on cooperation with one region in the complex global textile market. moreover, the conclusion of a trade agreement with a country like syria is unthinkable in view of the current human rights situation. mr president, the european commission must clearly identify the opportunities and threats within the global textile sector without import quotas and formulate a clear policy for the european textile sector after 2008. only a commercial and innovative european textile sector can maintain a competitive position on the world market.
president. - i too offer my condolences to all the victims. since 1 january 2005, wto members are no longer allowed to apply quotas for the import of textiles and clothing. the impact on the european market is enormous, both for importers and for producers. it is good that the commission has sought a solution to this dilemma in dialogue. this measure gives european manufacturing industry some breathing space. that's all it is, and that's all it can be. the wto does not allow it and it is not expected that this will change. european producers will now have to anticipate the new situation. what is needed is a strategic response to the long-term problems. the european textile and clothing industry, and not only the industry, is facing a structural problem. there are many products that are produced or can be produced in china, or perhaps in other countries, at lower cost. speaking of china, a big problem is that china doesn't follow wto rules. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of persons. this allows it to produce cheaper, which leads to unfair competition. this really needs to be dealt with. ensure that existing rules are respected. as for the poor countries, many poor countries have built up a huge dependence on the textile and clothing sector in recent years. they too have difficulty competing with china and are losing jobs. the least developed countries must not be the biggest losers. furthermore, the interests of importers and producers who anticipated the situation from 2005 onwards and have now in some cases even made large financial commitments are not sufficiently taken into account. they must not be the victims of a rescue operation for a part of the manufacturing industry. they have a right to predictability and legal certainty. finally, mr president, of course we can protect our trading position, but always in line with the wto, with a responsibility towards poor countries and with a responsibility for fair trade and respect for human rights and the environment. this should apply to all wto members. my compliments to mrs. saifi.
rapporteur.– mr president, i should like to clarify that, by way of this report, we recommend that the european parliament reject the agreement on the transfer of passenger data between the eu and canada. that does not mean that the agreement cannot go ahead, even if we vote against it, because we are only being consulted here. you may recall that the european parliament last year rejected a similar agreement with the united states on grounds of both substance and procedure. the agreement was signed nevertheless and this house subsequently took the commission and the council to court. the case is pending and a court ruling is expected by the end of this year. i need to underline that the agreement with canada is much better in substance. we recognise that a good deal has been negotiated by the commission. however, the commission chose the identical procedure as it did in the case of the agreement with the united states. both the european parliament and the national parliaments are effectively being sidelined. the commission should have chosen the assent procedure instead. the committee on legal affairs unanimously endorsed the view that the commission has chosen the wrong legal base. if parliament were to accept this procedure now, it would basically undermine the pending court case. i reiterate, by voting for this report, the council can still go ahead with the agreement. in other words, rejection by the european parliament does not in any way jeopardise the agreement but, at the same time, parliament remains coherent with its earlier positions and will not undermine the court case. therefore, i kindly ask you to vote for this report. (applause)
president. - when my group is concerned about zimbabwe, we do not think in the first place of the white farmers who became rich in colonial times, but of the great black majority who still have a much lower income. president mugabe has played a major role in the freedom struggle against colonial rule and the white minority regime of ian smith. in that liberation struggle and afterwards, he has always presented himself as the hero of the black masses. in practice, he did far too little to improve their lot for years. he seemed to have become a moderate driver, only radical in his dislike of homosexuality. he was hardly more recognizable than the former leader of the independence struggle who gave the poor hope of a vastly changed society in which the equality of all people was paramount. it was not until long after he came to power that he became strongly radicalized. he is especially radical against anyone who threatens or could threaten his autocracy. one by one, the political opposition, the rich peasants, the poor slums and the market merchants fell victim to his intimidation and his activities aimed at their destruction. in a previous debate on zimbabwe, on 16 december 2004, i suggested that mugabe had launched these campaigns to compensate for his loss of popularity. he tries to win and mobilize new followers by his unexpectedly decisive action. now, his approach no longer seems like a clever tactic, but the behavior of someone going insane. instead of providing the poor with better homes, he drives them out of the cities by demolishing their homes. this is going to look suspiciously like the insane regime that pol pot wanted to impose in cambodia 30 years ago. my group regrets that the resolution before us is an exhaustive critique of our neighbour south africa and the african union, but that it does not seek to resolve the problems with them. as long as europe is seen in africa in its old role as a colonizer, we lack the moral authority to contribute to improvement.
author. mr president, allow me to begin by expressing my deepest sympathy to my british colleagues for the victims of the terrible events in london. now on to zimbabwe. more than ever, mugabe seems to be becoming the pol pot of africa. it is a long word, but i read it several times yesterday when i was reading through zimbabwean documents and the tragedy unfolded before my eyes. with his unacceptable operation "drive out rubbish", mugabe is destroying thousands of homes in the poor suburbs. the desperate population is indiscriminately chased into the winter cold, not knowing where to go. many of the displaced voted for the opposition mdc in the march elections. what are the reactions on international stages? neighbouring south africa says it is using quiet diplomacy, but it is so quiet that it is not even heard in zimbabwe. the members of the african union, meeting in the libyan city of sirte, did not feel called upon to condemn mugabe's regime either. no interference in domestic affairs, that's the excuse. the commission, through its president barroso, believes that we should not teach africa lessons. the council says it recognizes the seriousness of the situation but does little to force any real improvement. the united states, together with the united kingdom, and with the support of greece and denmark, first raised the crisis in the united nations security council. if the united nations really wants to achieve its high level of ambition, it must show it here. it is not enough to send the special envoy appointed by kofi annan, anna tibaijuka, to the country. for too long, the world has been watching from the sidelines as dictator mugabe gets more and more impunity. the g8 summit in gleneagles, scotland, is focused on poverty in africa. we expect clearly more than the minimal call by the g8 ministers of 23 june to harare to adhere to the rule of law and respect human rights. i'm not going to die. mr president, the crystal-clear and sharp resolution of this house is a great stimulus to these world leaders.
president. - mr president, we have already established in the previous debate that zimbabwe is hell, but the same is true of guatemala, and has been for a long time. since the coup d'état of 1954, which deposed a government that had wanted to free guatemala from poverty and backwardness, almost nothing has ever gone well in guatemala and there have been continuous governments in power that did not care about the weakest groups in society or human rights. they have a long tradition of using violence and other forms of intimidation against anyone who wants to improve the situation. it is in keeping with the backwardness of the last half-century that the law does not criminalize child trafficking, that government documents are forged, that many murders go unpunished, that human rights activists are severely hampered, that 56% of the population lives in poverty and that the indigenous population has little opportunity to participate in political decision-making. not only in zimbabwe, but at least as much in guatemala, there is every reason for the european union to contribute to radical change. my group therefore wholeheartedly supports the resolution.
i would also like to express my european solidarity with all those areas affected by natural disasters. but i would like to focus on two areas of european policy, rural policy and forestry policy, and invite the commissioner to look at whether we can use these policies more effectively for those regions that are long-term victims of drought or other climate disasters. i am referring mainly to southern europe, southern spain, but also particularly to southern portugal in relation to the cork oaks. the situation there shows that there is a real threat of drought. not by human action but by the threat of prolonged drought, with all its consequences: drought stress in trees, including cork oaks. we must look at what we can do to give those governments the opportunity to use either rural or forestry policies, in particular to combat stress diseases in these trees. at the moment, too little is happening and i am convinced that if action is not taken quickly, climate change will also take place in that area. the same applies to forestry policy. i am the rapporteur on forestry policy in the committee on budgetary control and it would be desirable in future to make greater use of that policy for the conservation of traditional crops and of tree species which belong to a particular region. sometimes they are not even economically important, but they are important for preserving the nature and climate of the area. in those areas we could do a lot by using rural and forestry policies to tackle those problems. one last point. the south is suffering from drought. in my own country many fruit growers were affected by frost damage in february. it would be desirable for you to also contact your colleague for agriculture to see to what extent the money for rural policy can be used to compensate for extreme damage in a given year. in other words: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. first of all, churches are public, not private associations. that is why church services are public and open to all. in the history of western constitutional law, the relationship between the state and the church is one of the focal points. the essential point is that good public administration cannot exist without sound public morality. you can't do it with procedures alone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, in its policy of inviting people to the community, the commission is wise to distinguish between religion and ideology. religion is transcendent in nature, whereas ideology is immanent in nature. it is a religion without god, a quasi-religion, motivated and dominated by human desires. ideology does not free people and leads to all kinds of slavery. i call on the commission and my liberal and socialist colleagues not to equate disparate cases. history shows that this results in social disaster. finally, the law in force is declaration no 11 to the treaty of amsterdam. the commissioner is just quoting it. perhaps you have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, but since the referendums in france and the netherlands the constitutional treaty has really become obsolete.
mr president, i am afraid that mr barrot's statement has not reassured me at all. yes, freedom of religion is a fundamental right in the european union, but separation of church and state is one of the basic principles underpinning our modern society. in your country, mr barrot, the principle of laïcité is one of the cornerstones of the republic. i would also remind you that this principle is strongly emphasised in the debate on islam currently taking place in most member states. we should not apply double standards, but apply the same standards to ourselves. religious and non-denominational organisations are an important voice in society and it is therefore fitting that the eu should have a dialogue with these organisations. however, such a dialogue should fulfil the regular criteria of transparency that apply to all activities of the eu institutions. frankly, closed meetings with organisations hand-picked by president barroso are neither transparent nor balanced. the dialogue with churches must be transparent, as has been pointed out by several colleagues. the agenda and the minutes should be published on the internet. the meetings should take place in public, there should be an established list of participants and that list should be balanced with regard to the participating organisations. the dialogue should be organised on an equal footing with the dialogue with the rest of civil society, and i would prefer it to be an integral part of that dialogue. can the european commission guarantee that it will uphold these principles? if it cannot, can it tell us what its criteria are for this dialogue and can it give them to us in writing? finally, in reply to a parliamentary question, president barroso had agreed to organise the dialogue in the spirit of the eu constitution, even if it is not in force yet. despite his pledge, and in contrast to his predecessor mr prodi, he has called a number of meetings excluding the humanists – you made reference to it yourself mr barrot, and you do not seem to think it is a problem; well, i think it is. he has been reported to have had several meetings with representatives of the catholic church and, notably, the vatican, thus granting a preferred status to one particular religion. i am afraid that your explanation is not satisfactory.
mr president, today we can see on a screen where we are and determine the direction we must take to reach a desired destination. that's a useful invention, one that hopefully will be used for our well-being instead of war. if such a system did not already exist, it would be a good idea to investigate at european level whether such a thing is technically possible and can be put into production. then there would be good reason not to leave this project to random inventors and entrepreneurs hoping to make money from it, but to make a concerted effort using community funds. it's too late for that now. europe can no longer be the first. such a system already exists and has conquered the european market from outside. the galileo plans add little more than a competitive edge to existing systems. the use of community funds now means subsidies mainly for companies in the electronics and aerospace industries. this will cost the european union and its member states more and more money at the expense of more useful tasks. that is why part of my group has never supported this project.
i would like to thank mr csaba őry, who has had to work on this difficult dossier under enormous pressure, not only from colleagues but also from the media. i have less respect for the representatives of the council and the representatives of the commission. i regret, mr barrot, that at the beginning of the debate you are not able to state the position of the european commission on this matter and that you are not able to say whether the european commission is prepared to defend the position of the committee on social affairs. what i also find unpleasant is that the council representatives have not yet made themselves heard. why does that make me so uncomfortable? because the politicians in the member states say that we should actually take a different path in europe, while the bureaucrats in the commission who are dealing with this issue say that we should stick to what is. mr president, that bothers me very much. what we have done is to take a decision on a first reading which was already taken in 1992, 13 years ago. and we can only move on to the second reading now! mr president, a great deal has been written on this subject. as far as artificial radiation is concerned, you must be strict about working conditions. the health of workers is at stake. but we want to deal with solar radiation, natural radiation, in a different way, and we can do the same with the subsidiarity clauses we have. the sun does not shine equally everywhere and it does not shine equally strongly everywhere. we are not going to make minimum unit requirements in europe. i am therefore very pleased that the committee on social affairs has responded very favourably to our amendments. the report before us should, in my view, have a great deal of support in this parliament. mr president, what do we want to do with natural radiation? we admit that there is a danger, but we say that it is up to the member states, or rather the employers, together with the member states, to decide whether and when measures should be taken. the principle is laid down in the report that has been adopted, and i urge all the groups, including the socialist group, to support this report.
i would like to comment on the last speaker. the epp group supports this programme. if we want the lisbon objectives to be achieved, if we want there to be work for everyone, then people must also be helped to achieve that ideal. because if they have a job, they are better able to provide for themselves. that is why it is so important that all these disadvantaged groups know that europe exists and that europe is helping them to get a job, to be able to study, to do something about working conditions, etc. i therefore congratulate mrs jöns on this report. i have two questions to answer. she has just sent me a note and i can now also reply in my own language. the first question is: how do you come up with the amount of money in your amendment? the amount proposed at the time was 854 million. that was wishful thinking on the part of mrs jöns at the time. we thought at the time that such a sum was not feasible. but then we joined forces and in mr böge's report we came to a final figure of 858 million. that is why we have increased the amount from 854 to 858, and i assume that everyone agrees with that. we have also changed the percentages somewhat. we wanted to do the women's committee a favour by spending a little more money on equality between men and women, and we also wanted to spend a little more money on working conditions. i think these issues are worthwhile and that progress can help to bring about a more balanced approach. finally, i am very happy about progress, because all these little incidental programmes do not make life easier. we can spend our money, our efforts and our energy much better that way. so i ask everyone to support this progress programme and i hope that the two amendments tabled by our group will also be successful.
in writing. the conflict over chinese textile imports into the european union is a clear illustration of the effects of the global free market economy. competition leads to a race to the bottom in terms of working conditions. chinese workers work six long days a week. in these inhuman conditions it is no wonder that they outstrip european clothing production. european workers then find themselves on the streets, making it a 'double loser'. in addition, in the poorest countries, 70-80% of the workers in the clothing sector are women. free trade is only acceptable if countries are somewhat equivalent to each other in socioeconomic terms. until then, the fierce competition between companies will continue to claim new victims in the form of mass redundancies and unacceptable working conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the undersigned wish to emphasize that high environmental and safety standards are more important than competitiveness. it is therefore unacceptable that the high reach standards for chemicals should be downgraded in order to remain competitive. human welfare is always more important than economic success.
the budget is a matter of priority, and the committee on development and the social democrats have made the millennium development goals a central priority. one in five of the world's citizens does not have access to basic education and health care, and the gap is widening every day despite all the promises of government leaders. europe is the world's largest donor and can make a difference. that is why we are not asking for more money in the first place, but we are asking for the prioritization of the millennium development goals within the eu aid budget. at least 35% of the budget must be spent on this and at least 20% on basic education and basic health care. within the various geographical budget lines we have set aside 20% for these two sectors and we want to give that to the european commission only if they submit to us specific plans for the basic education and basic health sectors in those regions. in 2003, only 2.3% of the development budget was spent on education and 5.2% on health. that is unacceptable. today, with the help of our colleagues in the committee on budgets, we want to bring the millennium goals closer. "make poverty history" is what i'm saying.
i agree with the president-in-office of the council on one point this afternoon, mr president, and that is that we must be as economical as possible with money and that we must have a realistic budget. as regards the question of budgetary austerity, the president-in-office of the council is probably also aware of the statistics showing that over a ten-year period european expenditure, which is the responsibility of the european parliament, has increased by 8%, while expenditure by the member states has increased by just over 23%. i do not think it is the council's job to teach us a lesson in the matter of sound budgetary management. and then the discounts, as always, they're predictable. there will always be shortages in agriculture. i understand that this year there will be cuts because certain budget lines are high and can therefore be cut. since the amsterdam treaty we have had the ad hoc procedure. we shall receive - as the council itself says - a realistic estimate in october. why not wait for that? the council also wants to reduce the number of pilot projects and preparatory actions. why would you do that? there are some very good measures and, especially at the moment, with the bird flu, we will have to do more in this area. finally, i would ask the president-in-office of the council whether he thinks that the council is keeping to the agreements reached in 2004 on the regular information of parliament by the council on the common foreign and security policy, particularly at high level. i think the council has not kept its word.
deputising for the author. – commissioner, basically you are saying that you do not yet have the answer to this question. you are saying that we do not know how you get on to such a no-fly list, so we do not know how you get off it. i should also like to ask if you know who has access to these lists. is it the american authorities? the airline companies? european authorities? if a citizen is on a list for all the wrong reasons, then what can they do to be taken off it? i do not think that your reply is satisfactory. we asked what the criteria were for being placed on such a list. i believe that is still a valid question.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). it is also a good example of what europe can do for the citizen, at a time when many citizens seem to have doubts about it, and it deserves all our support. the regulation is so important because at the moment too many paediatric medicines are used which are not developed for children or tested on children. the positive or negative effects of the use of the medicinal product by a child are therefore often not known, with all the consequences of this. it is therefore necessary to invest more in the development of medicines specifically for children. the proposal rightly seeks to encourage the development of good and safe paediatric medicines by requiring manufacturers of medicines to carry out studies on the suitability of paediatric medicines in every application for marketing authorization they submit. another good example, mentioned earlier, is the creation of a paediatric committee, which will be responsible for the evaluation and approval of paediatric research plans. the rapporteur's proposal for the paediatric research programme mice to finance research into the paediatric use of medicinal products not covered by a patent or supplementary protection certificate will also be a major stimulus to the production of paediatric medicinal products. i also believe that innovation in general requires investment, more than the patent protection we are talking about at the moment. of course, research on children should be handled with caution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. i am also pleased that the committee on health has already adopted a number of amendments on this point. i agree with everyone who says that it is a pity that the interests of the child are apparently being lost in this debate and that the debate is about who should actually earn the most from the industry. i think that in this debate there is a lot of blame on both sides and it is extremely frustrating. in principle, i think that such a patent renewal should be as short as possible, because it is the user or the citizen who ultimately pays the cost. it's her money we're sitting here dividing. a patent is a temporary monopoly granted to stimulate innovation, but in this proposal research is an obligation and the patent is a cost reimbursement and that is the real difference with the united states. i would say: let's not focus on patent protection. we are voting for five months, the rapporteur has been very passionate about six months. i myself have already been extended, first from a flexible period to four months, and now i have proposed five months. so you haven't been pleading for nothing. i am afraid that we have not really come closer together, but i do appreciate the rapporteur's work.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. i can also support the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment for the most part. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is clear to everyone that a six-month extension is not necessary for many medicines. the additional cost of the study required to obtain paediatric approval is relatively low. but that is not true of all drugs. for some low-turnover funds, the six-month extension is still necessary to recover the expenditure. that is the essence of our group's amendments. as a rule, we want an extension of three months, and for those drugs where that is not enough, an additional extension of three months is possible. that is reasonable for everyone and cost-saving for national health systems. it would be irresponsible for us to extend the six-month extension to all products. after all, health insurance is expensive enough. i would therefore like to ask everyone to support amendments nos 89 by mr breyer, mr mcavan and mr corbey or amendments nos 91 to 93 by my group.
mr president, it is really important that children receive the right medicines in the right dosage and in the right form. the commission proposal is of great importance to children, to parents and to industry. pharmaceutical manufacturers should be fairly compensated for the research they carry out on medicinal products for children. i think that it is a very generous compensation, but in many cases a six-month extension of patent protection is extremely generous. i've been looking into it with a reputable british innovation company, and research into childhood indications usually costs around eight million euros. the revenues from six months of patent granting are a multiple of this, about 200 to 300 million, and there are even much higher amounts mentioned for blockbusters. i therefore call for proportionality: 3 months, but if the turnover is less than 100 million, an additional 3 months can be obtained. 3 + 3 is also 6, but only for companies that really need it. these amendments were tabled by me and linda mcavan and have been signed by 44 colleagues from our group, from belgium, estonia, france, portugal, greece, poland, hungary, the united kingdom and the netherlands. we believe that the reward should be commensurate with the cost incurred. that is a very simple and normal principle. it is not worthwhile to make huge profits on the backs of sick children. and it's always good to think about who's paying for it: that's the drug users and the insured. the cost of health insurance is rising, with medicines accounting for about 10% of total public health expenditure. the bill for medication does not have to be unnecessarily expensive. money is better spent on health care than on fun perks for industry. of course, the pharmaceutical industry lobbies heavily for six months. everything else would be so-called bureaucratic and complicated. but there is nothing bureaucratic about providing turnover figures, which are already known. when i look at the pharmaceutical industry, i see big problems. there is too little innovation in europe. that innovation is not going to come from the pharmaceutical companies making extra payments. on the contrary, real innovation comes when we ask for added therapeutic value and that is why i also support the amendments tabled by anne ferreira and the greens.
mr president, terrorism is not a new phenomenon. it is an old phenomenon, used to disrupt a society and cause unrest and instability. unfortunately, acts of terrorism are already a well-known phenomenon in several member states, dating back to before islamic terrorism. for example, the fight against terrorism in the 1970s and 1980s was therefore accompanied by the views on data protection that prevailed at the time. our time calls for new methods and techniques to deal with terrorism, and in doing so we want respect for individual freedom and the guarantee of security for our society. i wonder, therefore, whether in the light of the old ways of detecting and combating terrorism, our notions of privacy are not going too far. i understand that many of my colleagues are reluctant to give their approval to far-reaching measures. but the limitations and objections raised here in parliament do not make it easy to work with data. i would therefore ask commissioner frattini whether there are any concrete measures that could be taken to increase confidence in the proposals of the european commission and the council. i am thinking of data storage in closed computer systems that do not communicate via the internet. i call on you to make clear and concrete commitments that will take parliament's mind off the matter.
mr president, mr frattini and mr clarke, europe must provide its citizens with security, but real security, not just a false sense of security. we do not need grand statements. we urgently need action: closer cooperation and exchange of information; full and rapid implementation of agreed measures; not just more data collection, but also much better use of the available data. europol and eurojust must finally be allowed to play a full role in combating crime and terrorism. i welcome the coherent vision set out by mr frattini, with a proper balance between security and liberty, stressing the need for european cooperation for more effectiveness. frankly, i find it much more convincing than the one-sided wish list for tougher measures by the presidency. the member states argue that they take these measures to protect our democracy, but they do so by circumventing parliamentary scrutiny because it is terribly inconvenient. i also firmly reject any suggestion that the convention on human rights should be watered down. i believe that we are on a slippery slope here. to speak of striking the right balance has become a commonplace. no-one will say that the want to strike the wrong balance, but tellingly the presidency's paper does not even have a chapter on civil liberties. let us not forget that people are nowhere safer than in our open, free and democratic society. i should like to raise three specific issues. with regard to passenger data, mr clarke insisted on legal safeguards against abuse, but we all know that the pnr agreement with the us lacks precisely that. eu citizens have no proper means of redress in the event of mistakes and abuse. no-fly lists are another concern. on what basis are people included on such a list? who has access to these lists? if someone is on a list for the wrong reasons, how can he be taken off the list? the usefulness of data retention for investigations and prosecution is undisputed, but the need for blanket surveillance has still not been convincingly demonstrated. furthermore, much more needs to be done in the area of human intelligence, that is, the old-fashioned spies, rather than focusing exclusively on modern technology, even if that is sexier.
i think that we are having a very important debate today on the measures we must take together, particularly to combat terrorism and terrorists. i appreciate the pragmatic approach, the focus of minister clarke when he says: "we must get a number of things done in the six months that i am president of the council responsible". but i also very much appreciate the commissioner's comments on the social context in which we have to deal with the problem of islamist-inspired terrorism in particular. i myself would like to say something about the partly political aspect of the fight against terrorism, because i think there is a major entanglement between domestic and foreign policy when it comes to terrorism. and the threat of terrorism we are facing is a paramount issue where our external and internal policies are intertwined, not only in the physical sense when individuals and groups from outside the union come to us with terrorist intentions, but also more so because we are dealing with networks and ideas that have little attraction to borders. these ideas often explicitly focus on the relationship of europe or the west to the rest of the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. we cannot meet these threats with measures focused on domestic security alone. we must therefore give them a place in our foreign policy, and that goes beyond mere cooperation with the police and security services of third countries. we must also look at our relationship with and our policy towards, in particular, the countries in the muslim world. the time has come for a different kind of realism from that which has hitherto governed our policy. in many countries, corruption and mismanagement pose a much greater risk of radicalisation than politics itself, and we must therefore make the democratisation and modernisation of governance the spearhead of our politics. we share this objective with many americans, but we also need to avoid the radical approach that many americans, particularly neoconservatives, are taking on the democratization of the middle east. it would be worthwhile to look at the example of the osce from europe, to see whether this organization which we have developed in europe would also work in the middle east. and, of course, consistency in our actions is essential, both in terms of the policies of the various member states and in terms of consistency between words and deeds. if we can contribute to solving problems in that region in this way, it will also benefit the relationship between different communities in our own community. our foreign policy must provide us and the majority of moderate muslims with arguments in the debate with radical elements. we must translate the dialogue with the countries in the islamic world directly into our dialogue with the muslim communities within our own society. only in this way can we isolate the small minority who now think that they can achieve something with horrific acts of violence within their own faith community. our foreign policy is an essential piece of the internal security puzzle.
the balance between individual freedom and the security of society as a whole is an essential part of our democratic order. but this balance must never be beyond criticism or beyond discussion. i agree with secretary clarke that in this time of increased threat that balance needs to be reviewed for the protection of collective liberty. it is indeed important that a crossborder approach be adopted, because, as elmar brok has just said, insecurity and crime do not stop at the border. you are making a comment on the approach to asylum, to smuggling, to people and to drugs. these were the core elements of the constitutional treaty, and i am glad to hear that you are interested in them. i hope that in this time of what you call the european wake-up call, the british presidency will at least make a full effort to implement these key points of the constitutional treaty. then there's the balance between freedom and responsibility. as our group chairman, hans-gert poettering, has said, most muslims in europe are very attached to our european values. but if you want to tackle the small individuals who are not attached to that, you have to be bold enough to draw the line more clearly. i would like to make two points in this connection. firstly, we must have the courage to expel radical imams who come from abroad, from outside europe, to brainwash people here. your government in england has made proposals along these lines at national level. so does my government in the netherlands. do you not think that, given that we have open internal borders, that this clear approach should be followed throughout europe? will the commissioner, together with the presidency, promote this? second, the recruitment for the jihad. that's a problem, because we have freedom of thought. but the recruitment of people for jihad will have to be tackled more forcefully. is it not time we started to criminalise the whole of recruitment as such in our member states? we can hardly handle this now. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. some countries ban organizations, some do not. do you not agree that throughout europe, really bad organisations should be dealt with in the same way everywhere and that terrorist organisations on the european list should be equally clearly thwarted throughout the union? now look at the practical, everyday life. i'll give you one example. hizb ut-tahir, a radical muslim organization that is against democracy and for radicalization. this organization, which is active in europe, is strictly prohibited in germany. but in the neighbouring netherlands or austria, this organization is also active and is not hindered. this can't be the europe of 2005! can we expect you to deal with such organizations more europeanally, to draw a clearer line there and to finally dare to draw a clear line with regard to terrorist organizations such as hezbollah? the last point concerns the transfer of information. as president of the council, you have the right to ask our parliament to reconsider data retention. but may we then address what the terrorist coordinator gijs de vries says every time, namely that he is unable to get intelligence services to exchange information because of the lack of cooperation from member states? let's be honest here: he says that the problem, particularly on the british side, with the british secret service, is that this information is not exchanged at european level. can the president-in-office of the council state that he finds this unacceptable and that the british presidency is making it a priority that in future information be exchanged automatically between the secret services when it concerns the safety of us all, as agreed after the attacks in madrid and new york?
mr president, it has already been said that the two speeches that we have heard this morning differ somewhat in the approaches they reflect. mr frattini spoke about attacking the political and social structures of terrorism. he spoke about dialogue between cultures and religions and about the promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms, not just as a goal but as a strategy to combat terror. mr clarke's words reflect a more practical approach: he outlines concrete and practical measures to strengthen the police and justice systems. both are necessary and both are equally valuable. terrorists have struck in new york, madrid, london, turkey and amsterdam. when i was in morocco just after the terrorist strikes in casablanca, the streets were dominated by enormous billboards with the text ne touche pas mon pays – do not touch my country, do not touch my neighbours, do not touch my fellow citizens. this is also the response that we, as europeans, need to give: 'do not touch europe'. it does not matter who you are or what excuse you think you have found for your perverse and nihilistic, violent ideology. if you hurt our fellow citizens, we will find you and you will be punished. mr clarke is right, the lack of faith in the european union structure reflects a lack of trust in its ability to act. in order to be effective, however, we need so much more than a strong police force. we need a fundamental understanding of the problem we face. we need a joint insight into the networks that recruit young men and women in our inner cities and in our prisons. we need a common stance on democracy and rights and a common strategy on their promotion in europe and beyond. we need to abandon the simplistic idea that promoting security automatically means limiting fundamental freedoms. we also need to forget the simplistic notion that limiting privacy automatically promotes security. in order to convince european citizens of the value of our measures, we need to take the measures that we can prove are necessary. the case for further data retention has not been sufficiently proven; the case for human intelligence and for understanding the problem has. we need a dialogue on the place of islam in society and about the future of multiculturalism – we need frattini's approach. however, we also need the down-to-earth approach that i read between the lines in mr clarke's words. 'do not touch my country' – it does not matter who we are, what our religion is or where we are from: if you hurt our fellow citizens, you hurt us. do not touch europe or the values it represents, the values that allow us all to live together in peace.
on behalf of the ind/dem group mr president, a political party cannot carry arms, that is not the case in any democracy. these are the wise words of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr solana. but they do not correspond to the reality in the gaza strip, the west bank and lebanon. for both the palestinian islamic terrorist movement hamas and its lebanese strategic ally hezbollah are now eating out of two wallets. they are fully involved in the day-to-day political business and are perfecting their military formations. with this dual strategy, hamas and hezbollah are not only sharpening internal palestinian and lebanese political relations, but are also deliberately aiming at an armed confrontation with the state of israel. what a sad result of the unilateral israeli withdrawal from gaza: the european union is also concerned about the intifada, or the continuing armed chaos in the palestinian territories, and the looming prospect of a new lebanese civil war. a true middle eastern nightmare, especially when we take seriously the current hamas media campaign. the european union is not prepared to accept the palestinian people's right to selfdetermination. given the critical situation in the israeli-palestinian conflict, i am very curious to see what the council's position is on hamas and hezbollah. are these islamic terrorist organizations - let us say openly warring parties - quasi-normal political interlocutors for the european union? i would much rather hear what concrete steps the council intends to take to dismantle the so-called military branches of hamas and hezbollah. i am also entitled to ask the council to do so on the basis of un resolution 1559 on hezbollah and the european union's own list of terrorist organisations as regards hamas. this is the opportunity for the european union, the council and the commission, to realise its ambition of being peacemakers in the middle east.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr queiró on his report and the excellent cooperation which has resulted from it. it is very good that a vision for sustainable tourism is now being developed at european level. and in the knowledge that most of the measures have to be taken by the member states, we must also recognize that there are problems that europe has to be concerned about. tourism is a very important sector for the european citizen and also for our european economy. this is an ambitious report and i would therefore like to know whether the commissioner will be willing to deal with it and what proposals and measures the commission actually intends to take. it is not just a task for the commission but also for the council. the report also calls on the council to speed up the decision-making process on the reduced vat rate. i have been very vocal in this respect, because the application of the reduced rate of vat is very important for the tourist sector. the jobs involved are very high and the reduced vat rate for hotels should be made permanent for all member states. they should also be able to reduce the vat rate for restaurants in a structural way. it is a pity that the council is not here because i was actually very curious whether the council expected to reach agreement on this before the end of the year. perhaps the commissioner can still comment on the report and perhaps we as parliament and the commission should put a little more pressure on the council to finally take a decision, because these proposals are very important for employment, especially in this economic age. i support the call for a quality classification for the tourism sector, but we must make full use of the expertise of that sector. finally, our committee is not called the committee on transport and tourism for nothing, as mr queiró has shown by this excellent report.
i would like to thank mrs svensson very much for her report and i would like to mention two points. the dutch parliament will debate further measures against female circumcision at the end of this month. the government has taken over from the public health council a number of good advice on the prevention and prosecution of circumcision. that shows the importance of the attention paid to this subject and to the report by mrs svensson. the netherlands is known as a progressive country, but a clear policy on circumcision has taken too long to be implemented. however, the dutch government still does not opt for a reporting obligation for health workers, because it fears that citizens will avoid the doctor if he becomes part of an enforcement process. but we cannot be so permissive in dealing with this serious form of abuse and we therefore support the call in the svensson report for the obligation to report. in addition to the differences in health care between men and women and the need for a gender-specific approach to health complaints identified in the report, there are many other areas where women and health have a special relationship and where gender-specific effects can be expected. these should be identified before new regulations are introduced. in the netherlands, the parliament decided two months ago to have a gender impact assessment carried out for the new health care system to be introduced on 1 january. i recommend that the european commission also have such gender impact assessments made in policy areas that are of real concern to women and that it submit them to parliament before new healthcare legislation is adopted. that can be seen as supplementing paragraph 11 of mrs svensson's report.
president, mr svensson has produced a very interesting and comprehensive report, which deals with many aspects of women and health. i'm not a doctor, but i understand that a lot of comments are pointing the finger at the sore spot. i am impressed by the concern expressed in the report. the report shows a great deal of compassion for the individual who cannot get justice in any way, especially when it is the result of abuse, crime or addiction. i wholeheartedly support the call for an accessible health care system. however, in stark contrast to all the positive aspects of this report, i find paragraph 21. whereas the report pays great attention to the well-being and health of adults, paragraph 21 below does not guarantee this for people at an earlier stage of their lives. it seems as if the rights and care of adults are more important than the same issues for people whose existence is just beginning. to me, the life of every human being is equally precious, from the very young to the very old. so i would like to advocate that we remove those elements that differentiate between care at different stages of life. in this way, the positive message of this report can also benefit people who are not yet able to defend their own interests. i hope, mr president, that the members will remove this stain from this excellent report.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i would like to make a few comments on the report on behalf of our colleague, mr maštálka, who, due to urgent duties in the czech republic, could not attend this part-session. first, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bowis, on his report. it is a well-balanced, well-written and well-presented report. secondly, we are talking about a problem that directly or indirectly affects three-quarters of the world's population, and its possible solutions. this means that immediate practical steps need to be taken and financial and other help provided. third, these diseases require a complex approach. cooperation is needed between international organisations, ngos and the private sector, as well as dedicated individuals such as researchers and petitioners. for maximum effectiveness, there needs to be complete dedication, attention and support, both financially and in the form of know-how and experts from the industrialised countries, and close cooperation with developing nations, based on partnership. fourth, the problem of neglected major diseases cannot only be associated with poor developing countries. some of the european union's neighbouring states are not considered developing countries and yet their epidemiological situations and possible solutions are similar in nature to those in the developing world. belarus, ukraine and moldova, as well as russia, have serious problems with hiv-aids, tuberculosis and other diseases. we should include them in our debate and when considering financial and other forms of aid. my fifth point is that, although we have discussed the threat of bioterrorism in our committees and at our part-sessions, i wonder whether we are prepared for the inevitable spread of some of the diseases mentioned in this report. there are often disaster scenarios that link the spread of some tropical diseases and their mutations to global warming. there are even warnings that some diseases such as malaria might affect our continent. do we want to wait until our lives are directly affected before we act? people in the developing world are human beings too and it is our duty to help protect them. we should not narrow down the issues presented in this report to the accessibility of drugs and cures for diseases, but should also take into account the situation of those less fortunate than ourselves. thank you for your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. nevertheless, hiv/aids, malaria, tuberculosis and various other diseases are still not receiving enough attention. in some cases there are not enough safe and effective medicines and if they are available, their price is often such an obstacle that they are not accessible to the sick. the bowis report underlines that as a result, poor people are almost exclusively affected because there are no viable markets for the drugs. and, moreover, lack of investment in research and development can lead to a strong rebound, as we have seen with tuberculosis and malaria. joint efforts at international level are essential to change this. this shows the importance of the forward-looking approach, which is also advocated in the bowis report. some diseases are not always given sufficient attention in developing countries themselves. nevertheless, there may be initiatives in europe to support the fight against the diseases. i'm also thinking about leprosy. should the report not have paid more attention to this disease? is the european commission currently taking various initiatives to combat leprosy? one point of interest in the bowis report is that we are making sure that the approach of the european union in cooperation with the member states is realistic and transparent. however, the call for obligations on governments and industry imposed by the international community says relatively little about concrete improvements in the field of work. health is not enforceable, but it is the result of improving care that is borne locally by the population. finally, visibility is important. despite the strong interlinkage between disease and poverty, it is not prudent to confuse the fight against specific diseases with the objective of poverty reduction in general. transparency is crucial for parliamentary scrutiny of the nature of policies and their effectiveness. i would like to thank mr bowis once again for his stimulating report.
author. mr. president, china today is still ruled by a party that calls itself communist. the communist party and its leadership have not been communist for many years. today, the only thing that counts is the pursuit of economic growth and export advantages on the world market. this is achieved by low wages, poor working conditions and the failure of independent trade unions. this is very similar to the dictatorial model that was used to industrialize south korea. the extent to which the mass of the population benefits from this is only apparent after decades. in the meantime, a society has emerged with great differences between people in terms of control and income and with great neglect of nature, landscape and the environment. it has nothing to do with the protection of man and the environment, which is our priority as socialists. these chinese leaders are no longer communists, but unfortunately they have retained the worst features of the communist state tradition. they did not tolerate independent organizations and other power centers alongside them. people may have a religion, but they don't have to get organized. the leadership fears that independent churches may become a source of opposition. a mixture of atheistic tradition and power politics leads to the government deciding which religions are allowed and under what circumstances. it is well known that the official catholic church is not allowed but only a nationally controlled variant. less well known is that the jewish religion, which was practiced before the 1949 revolution in the major cities of the east coast, is not allowed at all. we must not allow this china to threaten its neighbours or violently suppress domestic opposition. the maintenance of the arms embargo must therefore be taken for granted. there should be no question of european union member states being allowed to sell arms to china. all attempts to lift the arms embargo are reprehensible. no one is interested in a new arms race that will waste money and create new threats. that is why europe must also commit itself to disarmament.
author. mr. speaker, a short, telling quote from a letter from an anonymous chinese protestant: "i really want to get spiritual food". the author says that he can no longer receive this in the official protestant church, because it is under the ideological control of the state. it is precisely this governmental violation of religious freedom in the people's republic of china that has led to a growing stream of thriving, unregistered protestant house churches. they face a wave of arbitrary government repression with china's new religious rules coming into force on march 1 this year. rough disruptions of worship services, heavy fines, arrests, demolitions of private homes, beatings or reprimands in the vein of 'teachers cannot believe in christianity.' shocking was the account of the august 7 raid on a protestant house congregation in shenyang province . among the thirty churchgoers were about a dozen women. they were to undress and then pose nude. women who resisted were viciously beaten. recent research into the responsibility of the central government or local authorities for violations of religious freedom in china has brought out a bright light. some local authorities sympathize with and protect fellow christians for their loyal contribution to local economic and social development. a practical example for the chinese central government to follow, because it always determines what exactly are normal religious activities and only those are legally permitted. i would ask you, commissioner, or your colleagues or the council to explain this ominous criterion for the fundamental right of freedom of religion to the chinese authorities very carefully and very clearly. what are normal religious activities? above all, i hope that you and the council will work for the release of all those who, regardless of their religion, have been imprisoned or suffer from the lack of freedom of religion in china.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. in that view, lebanon, jordan, israel, palestine and parts of iraq should also be part of syria. in syria, france and britain, who conquered these territories from turkey in world war i, are blamed for needlessly fragmenting it and thus making impossible the return of a larger syria, as it existed before the ottoman empire. to be fair, syria was a leader in the formation of the united arab republic more than 40 years ago, along with egypt and yemen. when this project failed and the golan heights were lost to israel in 1967, the soil for an authoritarian and militarist regime was created in syria. the regime is intolerant of ethnic minorities, christianity and different interpretations of the regime's version of islam. it is also intolerant of internal opposition, suspicious of its neighbours and even more so of great powers far away. the syrian territory has supported violent movements of exiles from other countries over the years and there is a suspicion that political assassinations in lebanon have recently been organized from syria. the european union is seeking intensive relations with all the states in its immediate vicinity, including all the countries bordering the mediterranean. if turkey ever joins the european union, syria will become a direct neighbour, just like iraq. my group believes that economic or military considerations alone should not play a role in further intensifying contacts with syria. the european union must put more emphasis on the release of political prisoners, the right to opposition and the democratization of the administration. how does the commission do that ? we must understand the circumstances that have brought syria to its present bad situation, but we must not rest on our laurels. the democratization of syria now takes priority over the intensification of trade relations. the criminal regime of the al-assad family should not be rewarded for bad behavior. with that attitude, we contribute to a democratized syria. the recognition of a palestinian state is also important.
mr president, i would like to share with you my concern about yet another example of a shocking homophobic speech in one of the national parliaments of an eu member state. in this case we are talking about the parliament of latvia, which is discussing the implementation of article 13 – on european anti-discrimination legislation – as well as a proposed constitutional ban on same-sex marriages. i note that not even george bush dares go that far. i would like to appeal to our colleagues in the latvian parliament to conduct their debate with dignity, to condemn hate speeches and to remember that latvia, like the other member states, has signed up to the charter of fundamental rights. it has also ratified the eu constitution, which forbids discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
mr president, i am quite right to be modest as someone who was born in the netherlands and also born in freedom after the second world war. i think that today is the moment for people who have not lived under the yoke of communism to pay their respects to those who, in particular in poland, rose up in 1980 against a regime which we all found reprehensible. it was a very special episode in the history of poland and it is very good that we are commemorating it here in this parliament, in strasbourg, today. it is an important part of polish history, but it is not a polish affair, because the example of solidarność and solidarity has also caused a lot of discussion, impact and movement outside poland. i would say, 25 years of solidarity, is also in my country, the netherlands, 25 years a concept. what was so special was that the workers in gdansk did rise up in a shipyard, went on strike, but were also supported by a group of leading intellectuals who were willing to stick their necks out and oppose the regime in poland. i think that this was actually an example of the best of the workers' movement as we have known it in europe, the democratic workers' movement which has also meant a great deal in our countries, when it comes to freedom, equality and emancipation. i think that was also a source of inspiration for many, not only in eastern european countries but also in western europe, which also often led to surprise, at least for us in the netherlands, about the courage of the strikers in gdansk to oppose the communist regime in such a way. we now know, and of course all this has been said in retrospect, that the work of solidarity was also the beginning of the end of a fantastic revolution in the history of poland; we can now say that poland has finally found its place, free in europe, where it belongs. it is poland that should be the focus of attention, in my view. the polish quest for freedom and its history enrich our continent; the story of the polish plumber becomes even more poignant in the light of this historical role. solidarity is still alive in poland and in the hearts of poles, as is evident today, but it deserves to be remembered in europe as a shining example of european solidarity.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the world economy. people must not be subordinated to the state or to their employer. we must be free to make our own choices and organize society from below. that was the ideal of the socialists in the 19th and early 20th centuries. they realized that in a society where one group oppresses another, no one can be truly free, not even the people who are part of the oppressing group themselves. in that view, those old socialists, including their great thinker karl marx, would certainly have applauded the resistance of the workers in poland in the 1970s and 1980s. any authoritarian regime that cuts wages and benefits and maintains the privilege of a small group deserves to be overthrown by the resistance of the masses. usually, workers' resistance is directed against the profit-hunger of big business or against a government that considers itself right-wing. in poland, it was not like that at all. the state was based on socialism, on the ideas of marx, on the communal ownership of the means of production and on the equality of all. it was not the product of the workers' struggle but of the demarcation of military spheres of influence between the victors after the second world war. the people have experienced the reality of that moment as the exact opposite of what socialists say they are striving for. that's part of the reason i was a speaker at a meeting in the netherlands in the mid-1980s in solidarity with the suppressed independent trade union movement in poland. i have never shared the view that the workers should be satisfied if their rulers call themselves socialists or communists. the legacy of solidarność is now being invoked by people with very different views, both inside and outside poland. for some it was a return to the conservative poland of the pilsudski period between the two world wars, for others it was a necessary step towards replacing the caricature of socialism that had been built up after 1945 with a genuine socialist democracy. the first view seems to have won for the time being; even with this outcome, which i do not regret, i consider resistance to unacceptable governance an inalienable right of all people and solidarność an inspiring example.
i understand, mr president, that i can also use mr goebbels' speaking time. i do not want to say too much about the content of this dossier, as a number of colleagues have already done, but i will say a few words about the procedure. but first, a personal note that i must take to heart. for outsiders, this is an incomprehensible technical dossier with no less than 800 amendments, a package of at least 10 cm thick. what are they doing in brussels now, you might ask? where is the outrage, where are the sharp pieces in the press? but yes, this is not about protecting workers from skin cancer from too much sunlight - which is something anyone can talk about. in the last session, everyone spoke of shame. no, this is about protecting invested capital. is that such a different and more noble goal? can europe intervene in this matter in any detail? so no selective outrage this time. fortunately, that goes for me, too: i have nothing against this file. but let us not double-standard the protection of workers in the future. all right, then, this report. i am glad and also proud that we were able to prepare this complex dossier, including the extension to trading book rules, in such a rapid and efficient way in our committee on economic affairs. all those involved deserve great credit for this. the united states in particular is watching with wonder and envy our resourcefulness. this is the way it has to be, to make europe competitive and attract investment for growth and jobs, that is the lisbon strategy. however, the way we are doing this now, with this gigantic number of amendments and technical annexes, is not a way that appeals to me and not the way that i think is consistent with the quest for better regulation. we have developed a more intelligent approach to financial market regulation in the so-called lamfalussy procedure. legislation on guidelines and technical details is delegated to the committees of officials in the comitology and to the european supervisory associations, which in turn do so in a very intensive dialogue and consultation with market parties and other stakeholders. this is necessary not only to relieve us as employers, but also to enable us to respond much more flexibly and adequately to developments in these dynamic markets. i am a strong supporter of this approach and believe that it can also provide good solutions for better regulation in other areas. the paradox is that in this capital adequacy directive we have not yet followed the lamfalussy method, but are now fixing everything, including the annexes and mathematical formulas, at the level of the joint legislators, but we want to condition and tie to a deadline the possibility of introducing this dynamism and flexibility after the directive has entered into force. it is not because we are against the method - i repeat that explicitly - but because the lamfalussy procedure still lacks a fundamental condition: the call back right for parliament. i think that needs to be emphasized again and we want to do that with this directive to increase the pressure to obtain that formal right of call back. how this happens is not important to us, the problem was already there in 1999, before conventions were drawn up to prepare for treaty changes, and the problem must now be solved structurally. the council is moving and we hope that the ecofin ministers will also make it clear to their colleagues from the general affairs and foreign affairs councils that a solution must be found, whether it is to the left or to the right. i think that should be the clear signal of this discussion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a few points: we have been able to create more room for national solutions in audit committees, which are supervisory committees within the company. we have stressed once again that corporate governance is a matter for negotiation in the member states and that there is no room for unambiguous solutions from europe. we have succeeded in making rotation of accountancy the rule and rotation of accountancy offices the exception. we have been able to reduce the administrative burden on smes in particular in a number of areas, and the commission has promised to present a report on liability before the end of 2006. commissioner mccreevy has just said 'i will have a further study done in the future', but we have agreed that a report will be on the table by the end of 2006 and i hope he will also give me his assurance that this will happen; we are also anxious to discuss this matter in this house. it is a problem, the liability, there are great differences between the member states, we will have to find solutions here. all in all, a very important piece of legislation which, in my view, has become a little more pragmatic and also more applicable in practice in the last six months, that is what it is all about. there is one more important hurdle to be overcome, and that is the comitology, as you have already pointed out, commissioner. we have drawn a line on this, including with the radwan report. i think that the same interests are at play here. i would like to say again, in response to a comment made by one of my colleagues just now - 'i do not want to play games of power between the institutions' - that in my view this is not a game of power at all, but simply a modern form of legislation. we must legislate in broad outline and leave the details to the commission and to experts, but that can only be done on condition that we as parliament have the right to revoke it, the right to call back. that, i think, is just the most important thing. i remember that just before the referendum in the netherlands on the constitution, which as you know went wrong, there was a big article in one of the dutch newspapers and the headline above it was: "in brussels, the officials have the power". it was all about executive committees where behind closed doors, all kinds of legislation is being implemented here. that is the typical example which only serves to increase the disgust of the citizens of brussels, where everything and everything else takes place behind closed doors. so i think that if we are going to talk about this comitology - and i am glad that the council has announced that it will take initiatives - we will have to make very clear improvements in this area. i also agree with the deadline, the horizon of 1 april 2008, which is also mentioned in the radwan report. i would point out that we are making an exception to article 26, which deals with the adoption of international accountancy standards, because we are dealing with international agreements in this respect. of course, if there is a new regulation on comitology, the right of call back will also have to apply to this type of accountancy standards. i am not going to end, mr president, without thanking my colleagues for the very constructive way in which they have worked together. i think we have had six months of very useful negotiations. i would also like to thank the commission and the council for their constructive approach and i think we can be very pleased with the results achieved.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs. i have read your report with great interest. tuna is a beloved and healthy fish. at least it's full of the all-important omega-3 fish oil. it is important that the tuna species can survive the fishery, so that future fishermen can catch tuna and future consumers can eat tuna. the content of fisheries agreements is vital for european fisheries, for developing countries and, above all, for fish. as a new member of the committee on fisheries, i was not present at the debates on the comoros. i would like to make a couple of comments, however. first of all: i want to see honest fish and real partnerships. the agreement follows an agreement which was very profitable for the european union. for every euro invested, the european union earned 5.7 euros back. the results of the agreement were, unfortunately, a little less happy for the comoros, a poor country. i am therefore somewhat surprised by mrs fraga's criticism of the fact that the contributions from fishermen and the eu are increasing. it was a very profitable deal, after all. only through genuine partnerships and not through unilateral financial gain can there be coherence in development cooperation, fisheries and scientific research. i wholeheartedly agree with the committee on development that it is important to pay more attention to the use of fisheries funds for local fishermen. i'd like to see specifics on employing local people on the boats. secondly: sustainable fish. consumers should be able to buy sustainable fish, sustainable tuna certified by mse or a similar body. sustainable fish is first and foremost fish that is not overfished. for that we need data and for that we need strong monitoring and control. article 7 of the protocol states that the eu is to contribute to the long-term sustainability of the tuna fisheries. i just have a few questions. commissioner, can you assure me that by "in due course" you mean as soon as possible? what action will you take to ensure that the indian ocean tuna is also sustainable tuna in the short term? what capacity should the government of the comoros develop to ensure sustainable tuna fishing and what support is the european union providing for this? sustainable fish also means fish without by-catch of endangered species. sharks, turtles and dolphins are at risk of being surrounded and fished. the bluefin and yellowfin are endangered species, they are caught with them. commissioner, are you aware of the quantities of bluefin tuna and yellowfin caught in the area around the comoros? when will the results of the studies commissioned by the european union be published and what support will the european union give to the indian ocean tuna commission's bycatch working group?
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. i agree with him, wholeheartedly agree with myself, fear is a bad advisor. the starting point is that the union, as an area without internal borders, must provide itself with a common and effective approach to the management of the external borders. the development of a common policy on asylum and immigration is an integral part of this. however, despite the fact that the member states themselves have expressed this ambition, the policy is extremely difficult to achieve. under pressure from public opinion, to which national governments and parliaments are often responsible, most member states are currently pursuing their own asylum and migration policies as closed as possible, while a change in asylum and migration policy in one member state directly affects migration flows and policy developments in the other member states. the problem with this approach is that the right of asylum for political refugees seems to be compromised, as the rapporteur has said. in the public debate, asylum seekers and illegal immigrants are increasingly being lumped together, and if we are not careful, the fight against terrorism will soon be added to that same pile. a trend that must be broken as soon as possible. a european approach is therefore necessary. this afternoon this house is voting on the proposal for a directive on minimum standards in member states for the granting or withdrawal of refugee status. the proposal as such is not very interesting, it is in fact a compilation, a catalogue of the policies now in force in the 25 member states. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the european parliament has only the right to give its opinion on the proposal, as has been said before, and yes, we can do a lot with opinions, but you can also mostly ignore them, and that is exactly what the council will do. however, once the final vote on this report is taken and the directive thus enters into force, the european parliament will have codecision in the area of asylum/migration and the council will no longer be able to act unanimously but will be able to act by majority. this change in the decision-making procedure is of great importance. it is important to achieve a common asylum and migration policy in the short term. i would like to call on my colleagues, particularly from the ppe, mr coelho, but also from the gue/ngl, to vote for the most feasible compromise and not to vote against this report, in order to send a strong political signal to the council. my group has expressed its willingness to do so. one point remains difficult for us, namely the concept of the 'super-safe countries', but i must be very much mistaken if a majority is reached for it this afternoon. a strong political signal is needed from this house, to show that despite the political differences between the groups, we are determined to push for a rapid, balanced european approach to the problem of asylum and migration. our visit to lampedusa last week has convinced me once again of this need. the directive is only a first step, not very ambitious yet, but it is a first step. we should not underestimate its importance. finally, i would like to make one further comment: the fact that the council is not represented here at the moment does not, frankly, correspond to the priorities which it has set out in its own words, and i regret that very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. in a world where millions of people are refugees, we are in a luxurious position to speak about their status. let it be clear that speaking about refugees from our position cannot and must not be without consequences. it is our duty to treat refugees with warmth and justice. the past week and a half has again made painfully clear how little we in the european union are prepared to provide clarity and transparency on the treatment of refugees. i fear that lampedusa is no exception. a balanced and fair european asylum policy can only exist if member states are open about the way they treat refugees. the number of amendments to the kreissl-dörfler report lacks any priority. if this parliament had wanted to make its wishes clear, we could have confined ourselves to the main points. now, in addition to the political agreement of the council, there is a very substantial document from this parliament. in a consultation procedure there is little scope for rewriting a council proposal. two main points. it is possible that this directive may allow several exceptions to be combined to prevent an asylum application. it is obvious that the member states are not prepared to discuss their own exceptions in order to arrive at a balanced directive, which is not desirable. in addition, the accelerated procedure is not sufficiently safeguarded by the directive. clear criteria are lacking and there are no sufficient guarantees that this procedure will not be detrimental to the fairness of the normal procedure. i would like to hear from the council clearly and very concretely what it is doing with parliament's amendments. it is therefore deeply regrettable that the council is not represented on this important point. commissioner frattini doubts that the council is prepared to take over from parliament. it should be possible to discuss with the council a limited number of points which are of importance to us.
in writing. in general, we must say that the report is a great improvement on the commission's proposal on many fronts. during kartika liotard's visit to the italian refugee camp on the island of lampedusa on 27 and 28 june 2005, she witnessed firsthand the importance of having concrete rights for refugees. if the situation of such people can be improved by an eu treaty, then we are in favour of such an improvement. we do still have serious doubts about some aspects of the commission's proposal, for example the concept of 'safe third countries'. unfortunately, the choice was between a very bad variant and a slightly better one. but despite these doubts, we are voting in favour of the amended proposal because it can bring about a substantial improvement in the position of asylum seekers and amnesty international was also quite positive about the proposal. i hope that the proposal will put an end to the shameful lampedusas of europe.
i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr marques and mr guellec. territorial cohesion is under pressure. mrs hübner, our commissioner, has already said that and she has actually asked for parliament's support. there is every reason to say that again here. if we look at the oecd report last week on regional disparities, we see that 40% of growth is happening in less than 10% of the regions. we know that global competition requires distinctive regional characteristics, top regions or regions of excellence, as the seventh framework programme for research and development calls for. they are being created, but knowledge is one, innovation in the regions, production and marketing are two. in short, specialisation within the regions is necessary. there is nothing wrong with that in itself, but, mr president, the strategic action plans which are being put forward by parliament and also by the commission and which fit in with the lisbon objective are being steered at national level. it is now necessary to emphasize and secure the territorial and regional contribution in parliament too, especially now that the funds from the new objective 2 and the funds from resources and development are being combined or at least used together in the future. i therefore support your proposal, mr guellec, that we should review the situation with regard to this regional contribution in 2007 in the form of a white paper or otherwise. what about the multi-level approach, what about decentralised management? fortunately, we are also seeing the emergence of regions which, in a new context, often also take on crossborder tasks. in my region i see eindhoven, leuven and aachen, located in three countries, taking on new tasks. so territorial dimension and cohesion is important, but it also takes on new forms. we must also think ahead in this way in the face of these vital opportunities for the european union as a whole.
the commissioner has made his statement quite solemnly, as if a historic moment were taking place here, and i think he is right. the commission's decision today is of course historic. it is about the image that the european union gives, and that image will only change when reality changes, and that is what i like to see. he says "it's an appetizer", but we would be mistaken if we thought that there was only something cosmetic going on here; i think that the european commission has also made proposals with teeth. it is a strange thing, with all due respect, commissioner, that proposals for reducing bureaucracy come from the bureaucracy. turkeys can vote for christmas after all. you are quite right to give responsibility to the european parliament and the council. of course, much of the petitionary legislation also comes from this house, and also comes from the council. i think mrs grossetête was also right when she said: "how do we stop that process from happening?" we also have our own responsibilities to look after. finally, you also have a website where you ask for citizen communications; can we also get a quick insight from time to time into what kind of feedback you're getting from that?
i would also like to thank the commissioner and his colleague mr kyprianou for their reply. what i am concerned about is getting the european commission to take a more firm line on two points. the commissioner says that vaccination cannot be prevention, but that means that we first let it happen and then apply the medicine, whereas there are vaccines, poultry are already getting 10 different types of vaccines and why not for avian influenza. it's there, we can use it, it's produced in the european union, and why don't poultry farmers and countries get more opportunities to use that to prevent the disease from spreading. the same applies to the regulations. we have just been talking about simplifying regulations; the use of preventive vaccines will lead to much less and much less regulation in the union and the commission must address this.
the liberalization plans, mr president, have a profound impact not only on railway staff but also on the quality of services provided to passengers. the close cooperation between national railway companies and their neighbours is much older than the european union. this makes possible the rapid cross-border long-distance trains with the corresponding ticket sales. that european success is now being undermined by increasing competition. then railway companies first rejected the least profitable and least subsidised tasks. while everyone thinks we are uniting europe, they are retreating to mass transport in the large urban areas and to a few main high-speed routes within a single member state. many crossborder routes are now only served by stop-over trains. night trains are being phased out or disappear altogether. only in germany is european ticketing and information at a high level and only the brussels-paris cross-border high-speed line is frequently used. elsewhere, it is becoming increasingly difficult to buy tickets to far-flung foreign destinations. the number of stops along the way is increasing, and waiting times are increasing. there is less and less attention paid to the proper handling of passengers on delayed trains from a neighbouring country, who are particularly in trouble at night. for the passengers of international rail transport, it is an annoying maze. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway sector is not left behind. i have shown on many occasions over the past six years, by means of practical experience, how this rail transport is falling into disrepair. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to finally provide some counterbalance to the negative effects of liberalisation and commercialisation. unfortunately, the rapporteur, mr sterckx, has not taken the crisis in international rail passenger transport as a starting point, but rather the annoyance of railway companies who prefer self-regulation to a european enforceable obligation to achieve the german level of quality together. his proposals reduce the improvements for cross-border transport and unnecessarily increase european interference with domestic rail transport. this proposal misses the opportunity to improve the position of international passengers and to stop the deterioration which is already taking place. my group is concerned that the regulation, as mr sterckx wants it, does not sufficiently solve the real problems and that it will have to be revised within a few years. to avoid this, my group is tabled a number of amendments aimed at ensuring that european railways act as a single entity towards the public and that shortcomings can be corrected more quickly.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for their good work and, above all, for the good substantive debates which have been very important for the quality of our proposals. mr president, there is a great need for rail transport in europe to become more efficient and more customer-friendly. i would therefore like to begin by asking a question to mr barrot, vice-president of the commission. how do you assess the implementation of the first and second railway packages by the member states and what are you doing to speed up this process? because, and this is my view, a good implementation of these two railway packages is much more important for the improvement of rail services than decisions on new rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. mr sterckx has done a good job of simplifying the proposal on passenger rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same rules as the other railways, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the railways are not subject to the same rules. we must take seriously the practical developments since the vote on the second railway package - and i am talking about problems, but also about the new member states. member states should be free to provide necessary competition in other ways. as in the netherlands, for example, with concessions for a core network to a single carrier. we, the dutch epp delegation, will therefore vote against amendments nos 2 and 9 tomorrow. the council does not feel much for the far-reaching position of parliament, so there will undoubtedly be further discussion in the coming period.
mr president, just before the scheduled start of the negotiations, relations between europe and turkey are going through very difficult times. difficult times because of a counter-statement by turkey which the commission has tried to avoid at all costs, but also difficult times because turkey's perception of what would be required to become a european member is not in line with the rules of our club. the perception is different. and that is why clarity is what is most desired at this time. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. because, my friends, the resolution is very clear. first of all, the cyprus issue. it says: the recognition of cyprus is not negotiable. recognition must come as soon as possible, or there will be serious consequences. we are saying that as a parliament and we must stick to it. mr schulz said within one or two years, so even for the socialists it will be unacceptable that within two years cyprus will not have been recognised, of which there is no record. secondly, the implementation of the protocol. there too, the language is clear. it must be settled at the very start of the negotiations in 2006, otherwise there will be serious consequences. i'll tell you what. there's another side to this. europe must take its responsibility for the un bringing the two sides in cyprus back together. i spoke to the two leaders on both sides last weekend, but they haven't seen each other for years. we should at least push the un to have someone go there again to talk to the parties. i think it's a sign of weakness. thirdly, mr president, the legal position of the declaration. the commissioner is right that it has no legal significance for our position here, but mr brok and mr poettering are right that if the turkish parliament uses it as part of the ratification there is a problem. mr schulz says that if turkey uses it in ratification, then we must stop the negotiations immediately. how can he think that when he wants to have a good trial with turkey? i hope, mr president, that the commissioner can make it clear that turkey is not using it as part of the ratification. if turkey does, then we as a parliament would do better to abstain, to suspend the case so that we can exert maximum pressure to prevent turkey from going down that stupid road and to avoid problems, rather than, as mr schulz says, perhaps having to call it off in two months. the resolution is also very clear, mr president, on how we are going to proceed with the negotiations. turkey has formally agreed to start, but i would say that there are problems with the new laws, because articles 301 and 305 of the penal code allow orhan pamuk to be prosecuted, allow a judge to cancel an armenian conference and i welcome the fact that prime minister erdogan has spoken so clearly at the conference and also on the kurdish problem. that's very brave. but the real solution to problems is to change those laws. to really solve problems is also to change the law around religious minorities. it is a country that wants to join europe, unworthy. that they cannot train priests after years of promises, that churches are still being taken away, that can never be accepted. and that is why i welcome the fact that the word 'deadline' is used for the first time in this resolution. if we are serious about prioritising political criteria, mr president, we must dare to set clear deadlines and say that you have one or two years to change things or we cannot go any further. i'm going round. the last important thing is that the absorption capacity is clearly indicated. europe will also have to be able to take in such a large country, and that includes a constitution, financial arrangements, but above all, it means convincing the people in the streets. that is the task of turkey in the future, with good action and real reforms, but it is also the task of this parliament, not only to speak clearly with this resolution, but also to make that clear language come true in the years to come.
mr president, listening to mr eurlings, we can at least see that we agree on a great many things in the resolution, but i do not think we agree on everything. as far as turkey is concerned, there is a difference between the composition of a number of groups, let us say the left or the left of the centre and the epp, that is one point. i am glad that we have at least a clear draft resolution and i hope that it will be voted on intact. the resolution, of course, was based on the european parliament's report last year. we have taken that as a starting point in drawing up the resolution and a number of points are also repeated expressly to make it clear what the negotiating framework is that this parliament wants to use in the coming years. we have asked that the negotiations with turkey in the first phase focus on the political criteria, on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, on the position of minorities. in this way the european union will be able to exert pressure on the turkish government not only to enshrine these rights and freedoms in law but also to continue to implement them properly. we have insisted on this many times and will continue to do so; turkey must therefore put this reform into practice and make it visible, so that we can also evaluate this in a positive way. it is equally important to reaffirm that the aim of the negotiations is full membership of the european union. at the same time - and we say this in the resolution - the outcome of course depends on the process itself. success is our goal, but it's not guaranteed. the process - the commissioner has already said this - is in itself very important and will also have enormous consequences for the future of turkey itself. unfortunately, we must note that the debate on the opening of accession negotiations with turkey and the text of the resolution are overshadowed by two issues. the first is the recognition of the republic of cyprus and the second is the extension and implementation of the customs protocol, also with regard to cyprus. these are two problems which, as i regret to say, have been caused by turkey. we do not understand why a global decision such as opening ports or airports should be an immense problem of principle. we do not understand why turkey is having such difficulty in recognising all the members of a club to which it is itself seeking to join. we therefore urge turkey to drop its objections to the extension of the customs agreement and to implement the ankara agreement fully and without discrimination. we therefore urge turkey to move towards formal recognition of cyprus as soon as possible after the start of negotiations. we therefore reiterate our position that for us the signing of an agreement with 25 countries implies the recognition of 25 countries. we are afraid that these issues could lead to a breakdown in the negotiation process or even to its interruption, as stated in a resolution. that is not in our interest, nor in the interest of the turkish government, nor of the turkish people. we therefore strongly urge the turkish government to act immediately to resolve these problems. finally, this is not a debate on cyprus, on the cyprus question, but the question is on the table and i would like to bring up two other points. firstly, i would like to ask all the parties, as mr eurlings has done, to return to the negotiating table in order to break the deadlock on the future of northern cyprus. secondly, i would ask those same parties and the council and the commission to stop hesitating and to take the necessary measures to give the economy and therefore the people of northern cyprus a chance.
president, ladies and gentlemen, in the run-up to important decisions in the european union on turkey, it is becoming increasingly clear that there is a struggle, a fierce struggle, going on in turkey between reformists and conservatives over the future of turkey, between a democratic turkey anchored in europe and an undemocratic turkey in splendid isolation. let me make it clear again, i want the reformers to win. this means that the eu must be clear but also fair in its relations with turkey. as far as cyprus is concerned, i believe that the signing of the protocol by the turkish government means 100% implementation. let there be no misunderstanding about that. but it also means that the eu must deliver on its promise to end the isolation of the northern part of cyprus. that also means that, when we are talking about cyprus, the order of things must be - and i say this to my socialist colleagues - first asking kofi annan to see if a solution is possible and then recognition, because the other way around, ladies and gentlemen, will not work. clear and honest also means praising the new penal code, but at the same time the reformers must be reminded that there are still far too many paragraphs and articles in that new penal code which can be misused by the conservatives to frustrate the reformers, as we have seen in the example of the writer orhan pamuk, and that further changes are therefore needed. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, as far as i am concerned, the negotiations can begin. i wish the commission and the council a lot of honesty and clarity and i wish the reformers in turkey a lot of strength and wisdom.
mr president, sooner or later, the voters will punish ambiguous policies. the same applies today to the council's and the commission's ambiguous policy towards turkey. the first punishment is already here: the european parliament has been the subject of two referenda on the constitution. the second, late electoral punishment is in the offing, via new referendums, if the so-called 'open final negotiations' with turkey already lead to membership. why do the member states not simply opt for a solid neighbourhood with ankara? after all, even a full customs union between the eu-25 and turkey is already a political obstacle today. see the deep controversy over the partition of cyprus. mr president, the prospect of negotiations with the republic of turkey is particularly saddening to me because of the lawless, i repeat lawless position of the christian church there. and i am not even talking about the serious cases of physical abuse of turkish protestants last month. the council and commission, having discussed the fulfilment of the copenhagen political criteria... i look forward to effective action on your part and, commissioner rehn, i made a specific request to you a year ago. i have heard a lot this morning about the so-called secular state in turkey. the colleagues who speak about it do not even know the facts and that is where we have to start.
mr president, last week i was in turkey to speak to ngos and the government about my report on women's rights in turkey, which was adopted by this parliament before the summer. the government is taking the report very seriously and has started to implement new projects and laws. the minister even told me that the number of shelters has been increased from 15 to 26. while i was in turkey, many things happened that have kept the minds of turkey and the european union very busy. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide police force, which would be able to deal with the problems of the armenian people. as an eyewitness, i can tell you that the conference on the armenian question did indeed go ahead, despite the claims to the contrary made in various media. eventually, the conference took place at bilgi university, where i happened to be giving a speech on women's rights at the same time. i also spoke to the writer orhan pamuk in turkey. he's got a lot of hope that this case will end in a sisser. he was also somewhat surprised by the commotion in europe. the case of pamuk shows the importance of freedom of expression. a government may not be able to interfere with the independence of the judiciary, but it can change laws that give rise to confusion in interpretation. as regards cyprus, i was reassured that the turkish government is certainly prepared to recognise cyprus when a lasting solution has been found for the whole island. the good news about the gay rights organization kaos-gl is that it is still active. but i call on the turkish government to leave ngos like this alone. they too must be able to participate openly in the public debate. i also call on both turkey and the eu to remember what is at stake if the accession negotiations start on 3 october. i wish turkey and the eu much wisdom and patience for 3 october and beyond.
mr president, i have a simple amendment to replace the words 'as soon as possible', in paragraph 6, with the words 'at an early stage in the negotiating process'.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, today the trial of the parma scandal begins in milan. this house adopted a resolution at the time calling for stricter accounting controls within companies in europe. as rapporteur, i have the honour to present to you today a package of measures which should lead to a tightening of supervision of auditors and of auditors within companies. we have been able to reach agreement on this with the council and the commission in one reading, an agreement which also contains a considerable restriction on comitology. i would ask you to give your full support to this proposal, this report, and to send a clear signal as a european parliament that we are not going to be able to do this. we believe that accounting scandals within companies in europe must be brought to an end.
mr president, there is a link between amendment no 14 by the rapporteur and amendment no 50 by my group. in amendment no 14 category c is deleted. in our amendment no 50, which concerns the previous three years of national professional experience of train drivers in international traffic, we still assumed the existence of category c. in agreement with the rapporteur, we are deleting the reference to category c so that it can no longer be a reason to vote against our amendment no 50.
in writing. the cyprus question is now seen by many as the hottest hot-button issue. and indeed, turkey's declaration at the signing of the customs agreement on 29 july 2005 has unnecessarily heightened the mood. yet, this was somewhat to be expected. the fact that the signature would mean recognition of cyprus is based mainly and solely on statements by european heads of government. this has never been confirmed by turkey. in fact, on his return to ankara - after the negotiations in december 2004 under the dutch presidency - erdogan immediately made it clear that the signing would certainly not imply recognition of cyprus, either explicitly or implicitly. i think that the council should do all it can to achieve the unification of cyprus. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the turkish cypriot community is not economically isolated. as stated in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the resolution, turkey must of course immediately work towards full implementation of the customs agreement, and thus open its ports to cypriot vessels, etc. however, in parallel (and thus with equal time-span) the economic isolation of the turkish cypriot community must be ended. paragraph 7 is too liberal in this respect.
in writing. a week before the possible start of negotiations with turkey on eu membership, there is little reason to be optimistic. the development towards a normal country, in which all ethnic groups, all political views and all religions are considered equal, is stagnating. last week, a judge banned a conference on the long-denied 1915 massacre of the armenian population. the large kurdish population in the south-east still has no prospect of education, governance and media in their own language, normal representation in the national parliament or regional self-government. the european union is not prepared to accept turkey's accession to the european union. in recent weeks, attention seems to have shifted from the situation inside turkey to relations with cyprus. it is unacceptable that ships from the south of cyprus are still being denied access to turkish ports, while turkey claims that it has been complying with all agreements since 2004. this does not bode well for other topics of conversation. as an eu member state, cyprus has a veto on negotiations and membership. the disadvantaged groups within turkey do not have a comparable influence. that is why this parliament must pay particular attention to their problems and interests.
in writing. while the cuts continue and both regional and international rail services continue to be reduced, all political forces are now calling for more passenger and freight transport to be taken over by rail. the recipe for this is that of road freight and the price-fighters in air transport. they decouple rail management from service delivery, and hope that private enterprise will lead to lower prices, customer-friendly behaviour and attract more customers. i think that approach will not ultimately achieve what is expected of it today. the focus will be on cost reduction, by closing lines, thinning services, raising fares and cutting out the many loss-making customers. the liberalization plans of mr jarzembowski are not sufficiently compensated by the savary and sterkx reports. the savary report calls for an urgent reduction in the technical problems encountered in crossborder trains since electrification. the sterckx report rules out the possibility of forcing railway companies to make crossborder services more accessible and to maintain them. only for people with disabilities does it mean an improvement.
president, 11 years ago, when he first took office, president alexander lukashenko made a significant promise to his belarusian voters: "i will resurrect the soviet union". lukashenko kept his word and keeps his word. the historic white-red-white belarusian flag is banned and russian is the official language. the culmination of this absurd anti-national policy is the present phenomenon of an underground lyceum in minsk, the only secondary school in the country where the teaching is still in the mother tongue, that is, until the secret service has traced the private houses, which today also function as school rooms. in this context, i support the european commission's initiative to contribute financially to independent radio broadcasting for belarus. the polish government is already doing the same. perhaps brussels can mirror warsaw. the poles are not only spending considerably more money, but their programmes will start in belarusian this autumn. the commission is also concerned about the deterioration of relations between the three eastern eu member states, poland, lithuania and latvia, and lukashenko's belarus. the repressive regime in minsk even pretends that a nato intervention is imminent - a small border conflict and ... as regards the security risks to the european union-25, i would like to ask the commission a few questions: what is the commission's position on the initiative of poland, lithuania, latvia and ukraine to coordinate their policies towards belarus? and has the commission taken any steps to encourage russia to assume its responsibility as the g8 chairman and to contribute positively to the relaxation of lukashenko's domestic and foreign policies? i would ask you, commissioner - you are replacing mrs ferrero-waldner - to pass on to her these questions, which are essential for the european union's security policy, also in the light of the cfsp. i'm waiting for an answer. president, i am learning from church contact in my own country and scientific information from germany in particular that fellow citizens in the member states of the european union ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, since the arrival of the un mission in kosovo in 1990, the kosovo liberation army, or uck, has been using torture, rape, targeted killings, arson and burning of romani houses as methods of ethnic cleansing against the roma community from kosovo, ashkali and egyptians included. the un administration did not find any appropriate measures to calm down the kosovo-albanian majority. on the contrary, many clear cases of anti-gypsyism are not prosecuted and charges are not even brought. today kosovo is a human rights vacuum. access of roma to housing, healthcare and jobs remains extremely difficult, while children stop attending school for security reasons or due to lack of money. it cannot be a surprise that many returnees are selling their property, unwilling to live in fear and indignity. in wartime citizens of all ethnic backgrounds flee. when war is over it is unacceptable that one or two ethnic groups are welcomed as citizens and codecision makers, whereas the others find themselves changed into disadvantaged groups, minorities and idps. this double standard approach on the basis of ethnic background is the worst scenario for the founding of an independent state. with the final status discussions drawing near, the exclusion of the roma from the decision-making process would be one more proof of the lack of respect for east european citizens. the high level pan-european consortium ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank parliament and the committee on international trade for putting this very timely and important issue on the agenda and i would also like to express my personal appreciation to the rapporteur, ms lucas, for the report. the commission highly appreciates this report and sees it as a very valuable contribution to its policy making. china's rise is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity. both aspects are well reflected in this report. when the report says that chinese expansion will bring enormous beneficial possibilities but also raises legislative concerns for european industry, i can only agree, and it is in precisely this balance that we have to act. let me give you a few facts regarding the latest strengths of our trade relations with china. it is clear that china is a big economy and will gradually become competitive in more and more industrial sectors. just like the eu or the us, china is likely to produce a broad range of industrial products. the challenge for europe is not only to trade airbus planes for tee-shirts, but increasingly to trade similar products within the same sector, so that european firms prosper as a result of their products' distinctiveness and quality. for example, parts of europe's textile industry remain very competitive. at present europe's overall trading position remains strong due to its ability to sell upmarket products. the eu is the first exporter of goods and services and the first direct investor abroad. this is a key point for the linkage between competitiveness and the eu social model. the eu produces value-added upmarket products and can sell them abroad due to settled non-price factors such as innovative features, quality and reputation, continuity over time or related services. however, the eu position is under challenge. the european industry is losing ground in high-technology products. it is trailing behind in several high-tech products, whereas china is rapidly catching up. the eu position is also at risk due to the geographical orientation of its exports which are strong in countries where demand is static, but less well-positioned in rapidly growing areas such as asia. it is more a race to the top than a race to the bottom. eu companies cannot afford to miss market opportunities in these dynamic areas which already account for half of world import growth. europe's future is to focus on what we do well. the eu has a strong global export profile in high-quality and high-tech products and services which now account for about half of european exports and a third of world demand. however, continued innovation and investment in this comparative advantage is crucial. better respect and enforcement of intellectual property rights at international level is therefore of the utmost importance. addressing barriers to eu exports in third countries also accounts for the bulk of the potential to improve the competitive position of eu industry. the eu stands to win from the further opening of markets worldwide. by negotiating the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers and promoting regulatory dialogues with our trading partners where appropriate, the eu can open new markets for its exporters. therefore the commission's lisbon strategy, the strategy of growth, jobs and competitiveness set out last february, rests on three pillars: opening markets to drive productivity and innovation; investing in education and research to enable us to compete; and reforming labour markets and welfare states to get people into jobs, improve employability and skills and extend opportunities to those whom economic developments are leaving behind. we acknowledge the efforts china has undertaken to implement its wto commitments as it enters into its fifth and last year of transition after its accession. we also have to make clear that unsolved issues have to be addressed. in sectors such as automotives, telecom and banking there is a clear call for action on the chinese side to get fully in line with its commitments. on our side we must use the whole range of instruments at hand to push these cases forward both bilaterally and multilaterally. for good reason, this report gives special attention to lack of intellectual property rights implementation in china. this report and the public at large are right to say that while we acknowledge china's competitive advantage in particular in labour-intensive production, it is only just that our intellectual property is equally acknowledged and protected. we are not only speaking about cds and handbags, but also machinery and hi-tech products. china has made progress in adopting adequate ipr laws; we now have to focus on issues of implementation. the conclusion of a customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement between the european commission and china, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, is an important concrete development in this field. the fight against counterfeit and piracy, including the protection of intellectual property rights and security of the international supply chain, are the main eu priorities for closer cooperation in the customs area. these issues, among others, will be discussed at the first meeting of the joint customs cooperation committee on 14 november 2005. joint activities are already ongoing in the area of intellectual property rights where a working visit of a team of eu custom experts is scheduled at the invitation of the chinese customs. more generally, the newly established eu-china working group on ipr will concentrate on concrete business issues. we stand ready to assist china on this way forward. because, as the last oecd report has shown, it is very much in china's own interest, i am grateful that parliament strongly backs our report on this issue. as an advocate of high social standards the commission believes it is in the interest of all countries to ratify key ilo conventions and other relevant international agreements. we believe that high social and environmental standards are fundamental for sustainable development and cooperate with our trading partners to this end in all relevant instances, be they bilateral or multilateral. the commission supports china's recent efforts to take greater account of environmental considerations and is actively engaged with china on ways to develop further environmental cooperation including technical assistance in the area of trade and the environment. we believe the carrot of cooperation to be much more effective than the stick of clauses and conditionality in trade agreements. on several occasions this report mentions the need for in-depth knowledge of opportunities to do business with china. the commission has taken the initiative and launched a tender for a study and a seminar on the future opportunities and challenges of eu-china trade and investment relations, also comprising ten sectoral analyses. the result will be presented during a conference in 2006 and will be yet another important input for our way ahead. i also want to mention the prospects of negotiating a new framework agreement with china, reflecting the full breadth and depth of the strategic partnership between china and the european union. this framework agreement will of course have an important and forward-looking agenda on the trade and investment side.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, on 13 july the committee on foreign affairs of this house adopted almost unanimously, let us say with one abstention, its opinion on the report by mr lucas, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the prospects for eu-china trade relations. the committee on foreign affairs concentrated its opinion on the question of the arms embargo and the observance of human rights in the people's republic of china. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. and there are three main reasons for this. firstly, there has been no substantial progress in the respect of human rights in china. second, the adoption of the anti-secession law in march 2005 by the chinese parliament leaves open the option of military intervention against taiwan. thirdly, the committee on foreign affairs stresses that the lifting of the arms embargo could lead to a serious undermining of regional stability in east asia. the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs is clear on the protection of human rights in china. it is deeply concerned about the continuing violations of such fundamental rights as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion. it is not without reason that the committee here relates directly to the ongoing council discussion on the possible lifting of the arms embargo. if the council were to decide this unexpectedly, it would certainly not encourage the chinese authorities to finally be honest and serious about respecting human rights. what remains, mr president, is a considerable loss of international prestige for the european union in respect of its own fundamental values. as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, i hope that her position on the lucas report will be echoed and followed by the european institutions.
mr president, there is a great fear of china in europe, but this is not the time to be passive and conservative. we have to accept that sometimes jobs will be lost to emerging economies. we must show solidarity with colleagues around the world. they too have a right to employment and to increased prosperity, but the european social model requires that we provide adequate opportunities for people who lose their jobs here, help them to find a new job, and provide training and retraining. they must not be victims of these rapid developments. the european fashion shops and importers whose orders were stuck in queues for long periods as a result of the import ban also deserve compensation for their financial losses. in the meantime, the european union can and must take advantage of the opportunities that prosperous economic growth in other parts of the world is creating for us. new consumer markets, positive prospects for the tourist sector, also suitable for lower-skilled workers. european companies have the right to protect their intellectual property in law, but certainly also in practice, and the right to access chinese markets. instead of taking protectionist measures to protect these jobs, the eu should defend the interests of its companies by upholding china's wto obligations. above all, the eu must come out of its shell, stand up for the standards and values that we hold dear. fair trade, freedom of association and labour rights. in china, working conditions are miserable, workers are not free to form a union. trade unionists are arrested and put in jail for years. tens of thousands of fatal industrial accidents each year are not uncommon in the chinese workplace. workers are forced to work countless hours overtime, and child labor is used. as one of china's largest trading partners, the european union has a responsibility to address these shortcomings.
in writing. in the coming decades, the end of the fossil fuel supply is approaching. as a major energy consumer, europe must prepare for the shift from fossil fuels to alternative energy sources. the turmes report focuses unilaterally on wind farms and biofuels. these so-called renewable sources of energy are not even part of the solution. such energy sources have already in the past consumed a disproportionate share of the european budget without ever being or becoming profitable. it is time for europe to turn its attention to renewable energy which will eventually meet the needs of our industries and consumers and to break free from the grip that the environmental lobby has been placing on us for years. we must stop being naive and dare to invest in nuclear energy and fusion. in recent years there have been gigantic scientific breakthroughs in these fields, but europe is in danger of missing the boat in this field because thinking about nuclear energy has remained stagnant here for the past 20 years. we cannot afford to do this, just because in china, for example, a new nuclear power station is being built every six months.
president. - after a summer of difficult negotiations between commissioner mandelson and china on the global textile sector, it is time to replace sectoral ad hoc policy with a sound vision of the long-term trade relationship between the european union and china. the enormous growth rates and the prospect of china becoming the world's largest exporter should not prevent a factual analysis of european trade relations with china. the opportunities of the chinese market must be seen in the right perspective. china is primarily focused on capturing the growth potential of domestic demand itself. beijing is particularly keen to promote its own activity, not shying away from encouraging price alignment or dumping temporary surpluses on the world market. another problem in the trade relationship with china is the large-scale infringement of intellectual property. china is too much in the tradition of the chinese philosopher confucius. it says that imitation of the master is commendable. the european union must make this a top priority. a climate of piracy and counterfeiting not only harms european companies but also hinders the innovative nature of local chinese companies. the european union should press for an expansion of the intellectual property expertise within the chinese judiciary. i believe that europe must dare to compete with emerging economies like china, but on a level playing field. even the world's largest exporter has not only rights but also duties.
president. - in the first years after the french colonial period, almost 50 years ago, tunisia seemed to be an example of a modern and tolerant democracy. health care and women's rights have since been favorably compared to other arab countries. the only negative factor in this positive development was the glorification of the man who considers himself the father of the fatherland, habib bourgiba. his authoritarian traits were later adopted to a greater degree by his much less popular successors. these successors constantly point to threats against which the state must protect itself. in order to maintain a stable state free of opposition and a free press, freedom and democracy have been progressively restricted in a number of ways. the result is that non-governmental organisations cannot operate freely and that people who are critical of the situation are sent to prison. europe still holds a soft view of tunisia, but it is time to make clear that the country is developing in a direction that will take it further away from europe. i think that my group should be able to say that more clearly than in the resolution we are now proposing.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is devoting great attention to the human rights situation in tunisia and is using all the means at its disposal to encourage the tunisian authorities to make progress in this area. we are particularly concerned at the breaches of fundamental freedoms, such as the freedoms of expression, association and assembly. the european commission, notably on the basis of the provisions of article 2 of the association agreement, has systematically raised the importance of respecting human rights at the highest level in a bilateral context with the tunisian authorities, including at the last meeting of the association council held on 31 january 2005. the european commission delegation in tunis is closely monitoring the worrying situation regarding the tunisian league for the defence of human rights, the significant difficulties faced by a number of other ngos and professional associations, as well as the independence of the judiciary. direct and regular contact is maintained with the different sectors of tunisian civil society and the tunisian authorities to overcome the current difficulties. the commission fully participates in the eu démarches to support human rights in tunisia, notably the recent eu declaration and the troika démarche on the obstruction of the activities of the tunisian league for the defence of human rights. the entry into force of the eu-tunisia neighbourhood action plan marked an important step forward, since it includes extensive commitments in the fields of human rights, democracy and governance. it establishes as priority actions the pursuit and consolidation of reforms guaranteeing democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the independence and efficiency of the judiciary and, most important of all, it provides for the creation of a human rights sub-committee where compliance with these commitments will be assessed and monitored. the establishment of an institutional dialogue framework of this kind, which is expected to be in place by the end of the year, should enable human rights to be discussed in a more structured manner. concerning the reform of the judiciary, a meda project on the modernisation of justice is being finalised with a view to specifically addressing the existing shortcomings and the need for better access to justice. a number of human rights-related projects are also being funded in tunisia under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. most of these are experiencing serious problems in their implementation, as the tunisian authorities are deliberately blocking access to eu funding for ngos, including the tunisian league for the defence of human rights. all efforts by the european commission to unblock this situation have been unsuccessful so far. i should like to reassure you that the european commission will continue its efforts to ensure that the human rights provisions of the association agreement and of the eu-tunisia action plan are duly implemented, as well as to impress upon the tunisian authorities the need to allow ngo access to eu funding.
president. - more than a year ago, on thursday 16 september 2004, this house also debated the worrying situation in vojvodina, the threatened position of the hungarian minority in that serbian province. a day earlier, a hungarian girl from subotica/szabadka made a shocking discovery. ready to go to school, 13-year-old klementina sötét opened the front door that wednesday morning, september 15, 2004. she backed away because she thought she saw blood on the door. clementina ran in with a start. upon closer inspection, the word "death" was found written in red and cyrillic on the door. there was another knife in the middle of the door, about 15 inches long. on the newly painted walls of the sötét family home, it read: "hungarians, you will die". as far as i know, the sötét family is currently living in a refugee camp in hungary. she could not stand the anti-hungarian atmosphere in vojvodina. we're a year ahead of schedule. sadly, not much further in the figurative sense. the hungarian human rights foundation reports in its report last month that since the end of january, when a fact-finding mission of the european parliament was in vojvodina, no less than 32 new incidents have occurred there, specifically targeting minorities. sure, that's depressing. i know. especially for the hungarian minority in the area. but this house has an additional reason to speak out openly for them, and not just in the defensive sense of preventing and punishing acts of ethnic hatred in vojvodina. the european parliament is also in favour of a positive interpretation of the rights of national minorities. i therefore maintain my questions to the council and the commission from a year ago: what is the situation with regard to language teaching and other cultural facilities (think, for example, newspapers, magazines and other media) for the hungarian minority in vojvodina? and how much money does the serbian government spend on public services for this specific ethnic group? mr president, i look forward to the hearing in this house on the political situation in vojvodina. a fine initiative by our delegation for south-east europe under the inspired leadership of its chairman, mr pack. the serbian authorities also learned that the european parliament would only give its consent to a stabilisation and association agreement between brussels and belgrade if the hungarians and other minorities in vojvodina could establish a genuine democratic state governed by the rule of law.
president. - on the map of the former austro-hungarian dual monarchy of 1856 hanging on the second floor of this building, everyone can see how ethnically divided vojvodina was then between hungarians, croats, germans, slovaks, romanians and serbs. when hungary was considered one of the losers of the first world war in 1918, it had to cede not only a number of territories predominantly inhabited by other peoples, but also typically hungarian territories such as northern vojvodina. since the division into serbia in 1918, vojvodina has steadily become more serbian and other groups have moved away or been expelled. since 1989 the autonomy of the large hungarian minority has also been severely curtailed. after the series of violent conflicts in the states of the former yugoslavia between 1992 and 2001, everyone hoped for a peaceful coexistence of the survivors. unfortunately, in vojvodina, where bridges have been bombed but no ethnic war has been fought, non-serbs are being harassed again by their neighbours. serbian refugees from croatia, bosnia and kosovo are housed in homes of others who can no longer support themselves in vojvodina. it's not even so much about deliberately organized state violence. we see violence and intimidation by ordinary citizens everywhere where there is a feeling that many of our own people are being excluded by state borders and that many others who were once seen as occupiers have been left behind in their own countries. the opinion of the serbian public is that the serb population of northern and eastern bosnia and northern kosovo are administratively unjustly cut off from the motherland. as a compensation, the aim is to make the areas that are recognised as serbian territory fully serbian. anyone who opposes it is seen as an enemy and associated with former turkish, german, hungarian occupations. the resolution we are proposing reiterates the concern expressed a year ago. but let us not forget that both serbs and hungarians will have to be better protected by clear and broadly based agreements on language rights, autonomy and administrative boundaries. only in this way can future outbreaks of ethnic hatred in and around serbia be prevented.
mr president, i note that there are two proposals. the proposal by the socialists to bring the president of the commission here and the proposal by the christian democrats, by mr poettering, to give mr mccreevy the right to say here what he said in sweden. and that means, mr president, that you must also put two proposals to the vote. mr mccreevy should have the right, if those remarks were not made in that way, to say so here in parliament. president. - i call the commission.
mr president, there has been a very heated internal debate in parliament about the name of a particular debate. and that constraint is really exemplary of the way that migration is handled in the european union and also of criticism of national governments. the agenda for today is to deal with topical immigration issues. and that's a pretty open subject where there's no country, where there's no name mentioned. but we all know exactly what it's about. it is about the human tragedies at ceuta, at melilla, at lampedusa. so we can just call it that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they said the debate should be called: 'declarations of the council and the commission on immigration; the following table is added: and that proposal had the support of the majority of the groups. the socialist leadership has now withdrawn that support and the fog has lifted. i want us to vote again on this title which makes it much clearer what we are talking about and i also hope that the social democratic colleagues will be honest about the debate we are going to have today.
mr president, i should also like to make it clear to mr swoboda, who wants to have a general debate, that such a debate will take place during the next part-session in strasbourg, as immigration/migration is on the agenda with the report by mrs klamt.
i would like to say that i am in agreement with mr watson, the liberal group's rapporteur, on a number of points, and i regret that we did not stand together when we voted on the title of this debate - but that is out of the question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is indeed a dramatic situation affecting the whole of europe. but i would like to hear from the commission whether it has also taken a look at the border area between morocco and algeria. because that's where a lot of migrants are dropped, without food, without water, in the desert, in the no man's land. and spanish foreign minister moratinos thinks that the busing of people is a good signal to the countries of origin. but the big problem is that they often never get back to their countries of origin. and we cannot refuse as a parliament to look where people are being taken. we know where they are being taken and when people die in the desert, it is also on behalf of the european union. i also want to know whether the delegation has considered the legality of spain's transfer of the migrants to morocco. because i think it is a bilateral agreement whereby spain can only extradite moroccans to morocco, and in this case it also includes people from ghana, from liberia, from mali. can you do that? and are there any people among them who might have applied for asylum? is there an investigation or is this some kind of mass deportation? why were there only people in that delegation who were mainly concerned with border control? were there experts who deal with human rights situations and was there also a look at how people are treated by the authorities there? we are always very happy when people in the european union take chances, develop themselves, look for new perspectives. but once it is people from outside the european union who try to seize opportunities within the european union, they are almost always treated as criminals. and i agree with mr watson that it is time to look for a legal migration channel. have we seen what kind of people they are? it is mainly young men who have learned a trade and who know that they cannot find a place in their own country. and we really need to all get serious about a legal migration channel. that is good for channelling illegal migration, but also for the dynamism of our european economy. i will conclude, mr president. europe is a project of civilization and it should not be a civilization project for europeans alone. it is high time that we too started working on this, not just on higher borders, sharper points, but above all on what opportunities we can offer to the people who are desperately trying to get into the european union.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). apart from the serious environmental concerns about nuclear energy, there is nothing wrong with asian countries bringing their technology up to par with that of europe and north america. it only becomes a problem when that knowledge is misused to threaten others militarily. in this case, that possibility is real, because in iran there is a regime in power that is supported by a militant minority, which has expelled and excluded other political forces from the country. this minority wants a theocratic system, including the disadvantage of women and the widespread use of the death penalty, not only in its own country but also for the rest of the world. freedom of association, freedom of expression, equal access to political power and space for individual choices are abhorred by this minority. they justify their reign of terror with their own interpretation of god's will, and it makes them immune to reasonable arguments. the political opposition has been driven into exile, including to europe. a democratic europe must take this opposition seriously. a temporary compromise with the iranian regime, which should delay the nuclear threat, must never be at the expense of our solidarity with the opposition. that opposition is our hope for a better iran in the future, where the people have the same freedoms and rights that we take for granted in europe. support for this opposition could change the situation in the long run. that is why parts of that opposition, such as the people's mujahedeen, should not be on a terrorist list. on the other hand, a possible military intervention, such as that which has been applied in recent years at the initiative of the united states in the neighbouring countries of iraq and afghanistan, would give the people of iran the feeling that their country is threatened from outside and therefore must be defended. that only works to the benefit of the fundamentalist regime. that is why europe's choice must be clear. solidarity with the democratic opposition inside and outside iran and a total rejection of any military intervention by outsiders.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the long arm of the rulers of the islamic republic should not be unknown to the british presidency today. tehran's terrorist tentacles extend as far south as neighboring iraq. this long arm is responsible for continued brutal repression at home and for serious destabilization abroad. the council and the commission should take account of this black record of the iranian regime. more than likely this reign of terror is claiming in all secrecy to have purely peaceful nuclear intentions. the council and the commission, how can we prevent the long arm of the mullahs from reaching for nuclear weapons? in any case, you will have to make the political price for president ahmadinejad unacceptably high. in concrete terms, this means that we must, together with the american government, keep all options open to tehran. after all, the mullahs can bake sweet rolls without us. if the united nations does not quickly come up with an effective strategy to curb iran's dangerous nuclear ambitions, the states that feel most threatened will certainly take action themselves. the council and the commission must also be aware of this option. one thing is certain for me: as a broker for peace in the middle east, you must resolutely reject and repel the blood-soaked long arm of the mullahs in principle and in practice.
i am aware of your concern about this matter, commissioner, and it is very great. i think we can welcome a communication which proposes a long-term strategy for achieving the millennium development goals in africa. that's good, that's a good move. ambitious planning is needed to get sub-saharan africa on track, in particular. president. - the next item is the report (doc. it's actually bad. the commission presented the report today. the commission is attaching importance to parliament's contribution, but if we want to make a contribution in time and come up with an ep position, then our deadline for amendments is already over, and that is the way it is. that's not a good way to do business. another difficult point, mr president, is that i have received complaints about the communication with the africans. it should not be possible to do so, and i am curious to see how the report fits in with the 23 priorities which the african union itself has formulated. it's been said. a new strategy for africa is urgent. the poverty is the greatest, much help has been given, too little achieved. poverty has increased. the report sets out the problems clearly. good solutions are also suggested. however, i am not yet convinced that this new strategy will do more, better and faster, as the commissioner has often said. not least because of the expectations of our own european functioning. the commissioner has already said that coherence and coordination of our own policies are a prerequisite if we are to increase effectiveness. i doubt whether this new strategy really provides the right tools for that. but much will also depend on the political will of the member states themselves and of the people responsible within the commission. as for africa: the commission rightly points to the diversity of africa and the need for ownership by african states. they are the first ones to be held responsible. the commission does not yet make a sufficient distinction between the so-called stable and fragile states in the strategy. in both cases, ownership is desirable. but for us as the european union, we will have to use different instruments in both cases. that is why my report calls for a two-pronged approach. the commissioner rightly mentions the millennium development goals as both a starting point and an objective. that is why i am surprised by some of the proposals, for example, in the case of large infrastructure projects, in the case of university exchanges or the nyerere or erasmus programmes. nice ideas, but when it comes to poverty reduction priorities, i'm not really following them anymore. my time is up, i'm counting on the commissioner. thank you for your concern, commissioner.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to doris pack, who became the member of the european parliament for culture for the year 2005 last night. doris will be partly responsible for the way she's been acting as an ambassador for the circus. i would also like to thank commissioner figel, who has given a very good answer to the questions in mrs pack's report. charlie chaplin once said, "i remain just one thing, and nothing only, and that's a clown. it places me on a far higher plane than any politician". mr president, we politicians must deal with this. but there's also another saying, coming from william shakespeare, who says, "it is meat and drink to me to see a clown". both statements indicate how highly a circus performer like the clown is valued. and, indeed, who does not have fond memories of clowns, acrobats, jugglers, but also of dunkers. the circus is a product of its time, but it is deeply rooted in our european culture. the circus has existed in its present form since the 18th century. but even centuries before that, acrobats and jugglers populated markets and fairs. they moved from place to place to display their art. and that hasn't changed much. but this! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cultural heritage is not lost. the circus not only provides entertainment, but it also provides education. the circus also reaches a wide audience and these are all examples of why this european circus culture concerns us all. the rapporteur rightly points out, in this context, the importance of good education for children in mobile communities. their access to good schools, vocational training, equivalent to the education of other children, must be guaranteed. the rapporteur, mr president, says that 'the circus is for young and old, for children of all ages' and i would like to echo this with my very last sentence, with which pipo the clown - a famous dutch clown - always concluded his television appearances: "bird day, flower day, child day".
i would like to begin by expressing my displeasure at the fact that another women's debate has been prevented from being held and that this is the last item on the agenda. but now women and poverty. yes, we have a report and yes, the report in question reads a bit like a bible passage. so as a progressive woman, i'm not entirely happy with the end result. a result that is mainly descriptive and not action oriented. what the report does is put the specific circumstances of poverty by and for women on the eu agenda, and i think that is a good point. in full support of the part concerning the setting up of an active group within the eu where the participation of groups of the poorest women will be practically encouraged and supported. they are the experts and they have a good view of the ideas on how the first need in poverty and women could be addressed.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. given the role of cities as development areas of knowledge and economic activities, it seems useful to me to record the specific influence of cities on the achievement of the lisbon objectives. i am glad that the rapporteur is paying attention to this. the rapporteur is also right to point out that both the commission and the member states can contribute to urban development, the commission in monitoring the side effects of general economic and regional policies on cities and the member states by drawing up development plans for their cities and urban areas. although cross-pollination is necessary and possible here and there, this balance alone seems to me to be in keeping with the principle powers of both member states and the commission. i can therefore wholeheartedly support the calls for member states to pay more attention to urban policy. i therefore sincerely congratulate the rapporteur on this fine report.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i am glad to hear mrs hübner speak this morning and to hear her make such concrete commitments that we can already expect a new framework at the informal council in december. i wholeheartedly support the report. president. - mr delors spoke of the europe of the regions. if we take stock at the moment, it is the europe of the regions and cities. i co-initiated a study last year in which we compared eight countries, eight regions, eight urban poles of development: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available. it was found that the best results are achieved by optimal cooperation between the region and the city. and so it is important to think not from the competence, but from that coherence; the most promising approach is to develop regional and urban cohesion, good governance and multi-level governance. i see a new synthesis developing in europe, including my own region: rather than hierarchy synergy. in my region, they speak of brabantstad, a region, a large region with five cities that are moving together; a good regional policy also means a good urban policy; i would therefore like to see this taken into account when the regulations are adopted later this year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in short, cities are the leaders in the region in the social and economic spheres and it is therefore good that we in the committee on regional development are looking again at clarifying the role of the commission in the urban dimension. and finally this: the commissioner has indicated that she would like to clarify the urban dimension in the regulations. i would like to ask her if she could tell us more about this in this meeting.
mr president, i have an oral amendment to paragraph 14 on death sentences for juvenile offenders. in iran, young people are being sentenced to death and executed merely for having sexual relationships or for being gay. in the original wording, where we used the term ‘juvenile offenders’, it seems as if we agree with the iranian government that having sexual relationships is a crime.
in writing. it is naive to think that the member states of the european union can build a wall around themselves that protects us from economic threats from outside. in the long run, free trade offers the greatest prospect for prosperity and stability in the world. any attempt to protect one's own economy will not be worthwhile in the long run. the report takes little account of the developments that china has undergone and ignores the fact that as china develops further, there will be more attention paid to the position of minorities and the environment in the country itself. the pressure from europe and the finger-pointing will only backfire. the problems of textile imports are typical of the schizophrenic approach of the european union. first we encourage free trade and then we go back to setting quotas which are unworkable for entrepreneurs. moreover, it is not advisable to maintain the arms embargo and thus to put china on a par with rogue powers such as north korea and iran. if europe really wants to build lasting trade relations with china, we must sit down as equal partners and put our complacency aside.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner that is compatible with the common market. the committee on the environment has adopted 90 amendments, and the council has accepted 50 of them in full. 17 amendments have been replaced by 12 compromise amendments and the remaining 23 have been dropped as part of the overall compromise. i think that the result is justified, especially when we consider that the position of the european commission on the legal basis requires unanimity in the council. i would like to thank the council and in particular the british presidency for the constructive and pleasant cooperation. the same is certainly true of the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups. i am glad that in such a short time a compromise package has been reached, which has received such broad support from the groups. in the last stage of the negotiations we have mainly discussed the two most important aspects. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i want to say something about this. first of all, enforcement. we have had a regulation on the shipment of waste since 1993. it appears that this regulation is not being properly applied. there are a lot of illegal waste shipments. you are probably familiar with the example of a british company which was caught illegally exporting to china in march this year as many as 60 shipping containers of rotting and smelly household waste. the forged documents indicated that it was a matter of recycling old paper. last week the uk environment agency announced that a survey of shipping containers found that 75% of waste shipments were illegal. in france, in june 2005, it was even found that 100% of the waste shipments checked were not in order. we can conclude from this that it is very important that there are clear rules for waste shipments and that structural good enforcement is needed. so not just an occasional enforcement action. the compromise package now includes an obligation for member states to carry out checks, including checks on paper and physical transfers. in addition, member states are obliged to cooperate in the prevention and detection of illegal shipments of waste. the council also agreed to the deployment of permanent staff from the member states to ensure that this cooperation is effectively established. it therefore provides for the support of regular physical checks on actual shipments. i would ask the european commission to continue enforcement actions within the framework of the impel network and to structure them into the organisation. then there's the matter of abandoned ships. all the groups have expressed concern about the dismantling of scrapped ships. as many more ships will be scrapped in the coming years due to the phase-out of single-hull tankers, global anti-dumping measures in, for example, asia are essential. unfortunately, strict measures on the safe and environmentally responsible decommissioning of ships taken unilaterally by the european union can easily be circumvented by changing the flag of a ship to a non-european union flag at the end of its service life. the ilo and imo must therefore work hard to achieve mandatory conditions which will provide an effective solution to the problem of abandoned ships. the council has stated that it will increase the capacity for the decommissioning of ships in the european union. the council also declared that it would make every effort to reach the global agreement on the decommissioning of ships mentioned earlier. as much as i sympathize with some of the amendments tabled by the greens, i must, as rapporteur, recommend that they be rejected in view of the agreement reached with the council. finally, mr president, i would urge the european commission not to bring another case before the court of justice on the legal basis. i think that the environment is not being helped by a legal battle between the european institutions. that is bad for the progress of the implementation of this regulation. i hope that the european commission will also see that the revision of this directive is of greater importance, and i count on the support of commissioner dimas in this.
i would like to thank mr blokland for his excellent report. he has devoted himself to the problem of waste and has shown himself to be a staunch defender of environmental quality. waste must be transported for processing and recovery. if it's good, we'll have less and less waste. more and more of the things we throw away and discard are given a second or third life. for a waste to be processed in a meaningful way, it needs mass. in order to be profitable, waste must be of a certain size. the waste markets have therefore become cross-border and common rules are therefore urgently needed. the question is first of all, what legal basis do we choose? i think it is clear that the first priority is to protect the environment. the aim is not to strengthen the internal market and i am glad that the council has taken parliament's position. i am also glad that the council recognizes that there is a problem with the dismantling of ships. it is all too easy to put an abandoned ship to the dock for the last time in a country where environmental regulations are not so important. unfortunately, waste treatment is still a sector with a reputation for illegal practices, whether justified or not. in the interests of the waste sector, illegal practices must be tackled. waste treatment is a normal and respected activity, vital to society, the economy and the environment. let us then deal with it as carefully as possible and member states must work together to combat illegal transport and practices, but there is of course no point in setting the administrative bar too high. small shipments of waste, for example, waste generated during transport, do not require complicated procedures. in addition, under producer responsibility, operators should be able to take back parts themselves without first filling in a whole pile of paper. we can agree on that pretty quickly. the pse group supports the compromise package put forward by mr blokland and we will in no way support the green amendments on animal waste. finally, much remains unclear in the waste sector. european legislation is still fragmented and consists of a large number of fragments. there is a need for framework legislation. framework legislation to promote waste prevention, reuse and recycling. legislation that gives clear guidance to entrepreneurs and shows where the long-term environmental objectives lie. legislation that also provides clear definitions and, above all, promotes innovation in all member states. legislation which will also promote employment in the waste sector, because that is what we urgently need. let us hope that we do not have to wait too long for the proposals for the framework legislation.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important item on the agenda tonight, greenhouse gases and particularly f-gases. everyone agrees that urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. but first, i'd like to thank avril doyle. as rapporteur, she has made a number of important suggestions to maintain the environmental quality of these proposals and she has made a strong effort. instead of the legal basis of the internal market, it opts for the legal basis of the environment. i think that is of the utmost importance and the majority of the pse group wholeheartedly supports it. the common position is disappointing. a number of countries in the council voted against because they have already taken further measures themselves. with the legal basis of the internal market, austria and denmark should withdraw their further measures. that is unacceptable. the internal market should be based on a high level of environmental protection. if not, the environmental legal basis is more appropriate, as it allows member states to take further action themselves. europe is not here to impose deterioration on the member states or to deprive them of the possibility of pursuing a decent environmental policy. europe is there to improve living conditions together. the legal basis for the environment is also clearly less complex and therefore also fits into the better regulation project that we all want. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. of course, there must be a good environmental reason for a ban. in the committee on the environment, there was a strong majority in favour of limiting the use of f-gases. many companies are working with f-gases and a large number of companies have hired lobbyists to persuade this parliament of their position. the lobbyist camp claims that there is no alternative to the use of f-gases, either that the application is not so harmful at all, or that the use is relatively negligible. of course, i understand all these arguments, but i think innovation is necessary and that we really need to put an end as soon as possible to the use of the most harmful greenhouse gases. we must of course look very carefully at the environmental impact of bans and we must ensure that restrictions on market access are proportionate; we would like to do that in consultation with the council. there is a broad consensus in parliament on the need for an ambitious climate policy. unfortunately, it seems that a broad consensus for strong climate policy has not been matched by the automotive industry. the social democrats would also have liked to have encouraged the car manufacturers to replace f-gases in air conditioning systems more quickly. unfortunately, that didn't work out. as a compromise, our group proposes to bring forward the deadline for introduction by one year from 2017 to 2016. not a shocking change, but enough for the auto industry to put a strong lobby in place to make it clear to parliamentarians that this is really not possible. the production cycle of a model lasts six years, but the car industry, if you're listening, isn't this a little too defensive? innovation is of the utmost importance if the automotive industry is to survive competition with china and it is not appropriate to push innovation into the long term. if we continue to do this, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon agenda will also be a failure and the exception for small series, unfortunately, mr schnellhardt, will be superfluous as far as we are concerned.
i would like to thank mrs doyle for her excellent report. the commission has put forward a well-reasoned proposal, particularly on the legal basis. however, my group would like to see the right of member states to take additional measures expressed in the directive in a more explicit way, which is why we are proposing amendment no 45. i hope the rapporteur can support that as well as the amendment of the legal basis. as regards the prohibitions to be added to annex 2, and in particular amendments nos 34 to 36, i can tell you that i do not support them. i am in favour of a long-term ban on the use of fluorinated gases in these applications, but we are not sure whether the alternatives are actually more energy-efficient. so at this stage it is too early to impose a ban. in future, a review of this directive could lead to a ban, but only if research shows that this is really more energy efficient. i would also like to hear from the commission how it views these product bans. my final comment is on amendment no 19. mr president, we have just been discussing my own report on transfrontier waste shipments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we should not therefore make an exception to the normal permitting procedure for waste transport. it would be very strange if we were to vote tomorrow for a coherent approach to waste transport, and then the day after tomorrow we are still missing the point of a uniform approach. i would therefore ask the rapporteur and my colleagues not to support amendment no 19.
the swedish laval case is and was under the jurisdiction of the court at the time the commissioner spoke and if a case is under the jurisdiction of the court, then we as politicians, but certainly also the european commission, should not pass judgement, that is comment 1. note to note 2. i also think it is not very intelligent of the commissioner to make the collective agreement subordinate to freedom of movement. - why? - why? because that same commissioner also has to defend a services directive here in this parliament, in which we do not want to compromise those same values. president, third remark: i am a christian democrat and therefore the principle of a social market economy is the basis of my politics, my politics and our politics. in this social market economy we are now giving responsibility to the social partners to conclude their own collective agreements. mr president, that is a value, the giving of it, the sharing of it in responsibility. that means that if you do that, you can also give good answers to globalization, to the aging problems that we have in that society. just by including, by giving, by communicating that responsibility. mr president, as regards the social debate - and everyone calls it the social model - i am in favour of the social debate, of a debate in which values prevail, of a debate in which we can show, on the basis of those social values, that we are able to give answers, because answers must be given, mr president. i do not agree with the socialist group on this. i do not want a liberal market economy, but i do want a social market economy in which social values are the starting point, in which we respond to globalisation together and ensure that jobs are created, ensure that social security systems are geared to people contributing to prosperity and therefore employment. mr president, i would like to conclude with one final remark. i do not expect initiatives to challenge the rights of judges, i do expect initiatives to challenge the rights of parliament and the council.
president, commissioner, we have already discussed this problem here on 12 april and it was clear then that the house felt that the ministers were simply not doing enough to protect against a possible influenza pandemic. i have to admit, something has happened since then, and perhaps that's because you've been hitting the table with your fist. in any case, some member states have taken good measures. you have just told us, all the member states have now presented plans. whether those member states which have presented plans but have not publicly said what they have done, or have also presented good plans, is of course a secondary matter and i would like to hear a little more from you on that. the ministers of the council of ministers of the european communities have of course also spoken about this last week and have indicated that the stockpiling of vaccines and antiviral medicines is a purely national matter. i think that is unwise, because avian influenza is a transnational problem. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. so there is a need for joint action and that needs to be on your shoulders, commissioner. first of all, emergency measures. there is no danger to public health at this time, but if there is, you must be able to take immediate action. for example, measures for disinfection and quarantine at airports for flights from affected areas or the imposition of travel restrictions. i have no a priori confidence that all 25 member states will take such measures. finally, i think there is a need for joint action on top of national action and i hope that the ministers will approve your proposals for a common fund. my colleague, jan mulder, who is the rapporteur on this in the committee on budgets, has also proposed that money be taken from the solidarity fund for this purpose, and i think that is wise. commissioner, if you are going to hit the table any harder with your fist, we are behind you.
commissioner, thank you for your introduction. i still have three questions about the bird flu. last week you said that you would recommend that member states recommend that people working in the poultry sector be vaccinated against influenza. that in itself is a sensible measure, because it reduces the chance of h5n1 mutating into a human-to-human form, but what bothers me is that it is so unconditional, a recommendation to member states to recommend something to poultry farmers. i think the european union should have learned from previous health crises like sars and bse. in both cases, the member states pursued their own policies, with sometimes opposite effects. my first question is whether the commission can clarify this as soon as possible. i would also like to know what priority the commission gives to support for influenza vaccination programmes in turkey and romania for the poultry sector and what support there is for such vaccination programmes in asia. my second question concerns the availability of medicines. experts say that 150 million would be enough to pre-develop new drugs to combat the pandemic. what exactly are the means you are making available? finally, my third question concerns the production capacity and affordability of medicines. are you prepared to suspend the relevant patent rights and data exclusivity in the event of a pandemic?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now is the moment of truth. has the new government succeeded or not? if we listen to the commissioner, if we read the report, we see the same picture emerging from it as, for example, from recent reports by amnesty international. a combination of progress in some areas but persistent problems in others. it is the task of the european parliament - and i say this to my romanian and bulgarian colleagues - it is the task of the european parliament - whether you like it or not - to focus on the existing problems which have yet to be solved, because - and i agree with mr brok on this - there is no automaticity. let me take two problems out of it. the fight against corruption. fellas, let's face it. this is the first time we've had a chance to talk. the image of romania in the netherlands, but also in many other member states, is shaped in public opinion by the idea that there is not a high level of corruption in romania, not only at the lowest level but also at the highest level. it is particularly at the highest levels of bureaucracy and politics that something must be done, and that is why it is also good - i would like to say that here too - that, for example, an old case which was closed in 2003 against mrs puwak, the former eu minister in romania, has been reopened, because that case, i say it in black and white, ladies and gentlemen, that case stank. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you can't just leave that to a bunch of prosecutors and judges. do what you can to remove that image from the minds of many european citizens! secondly, the environment and food safety. the commission is right to pay attention to another sensitive subject for many european citizens, namely food safety. if that is not properly regulated, then, in my view, a country cannot become a member. and the commission is right to pay attention to this. but what is lacking, ladies and gentlemen, is attention to genetically modified organisms. the commission says very briefly that it is doing pretty well. the reports we are receiving, including from greenpeace, are much more worrying. romania, ladies and gentlemen, is the largest area of genetically modified organisms in europe. the romanian authorities are not aware of the situation and there is very little information available to the romanian population and no way of checking that everything is done in accordance with european directives. and, ladies and gentlemen, that is not possible, such a country cannot simply become a member of the european union. these are problems, corruption and gmos, which will have to be solved early next year. if it is not - and i say this hopelessly - if it is not, then the possibility of a decision to postpone for one year will have to be considered. i'll tell the commissioner, who i know is a football fan. we talked a lot about yellow cards: if a match is not scored at the end of the regular playing time, it may be extended; those are the rules!
for more than 30 years, the european communities and then the european union have been expanding their membership and eating up other partnerships. since the great enlargement of 2004, when more new member states suddenly joined than in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s combined, something has changed. before, every enlargement was a success, but now enlargement is seen by many as a threat. the example of spain and ireland, which quickly filled in all the gaps with generous financial contributions from the european union, will probably not be repeated. many newcomers become dependent on the export of cheap agricultural products, of cheap mining products and especially of cheap labour, while having to import expensive new technology. in the old member states, increasing payments to the newcomers and, above all, rising unemployment are expected, possibly due to low wage competition. nevertheless, the new member states are still lagging behind. romania and bulgaria were decided in april to join as the last of the 10 newcomers in 2004. i now hear comments in this parliament about drawing a definitive external border for europe, about limiting the solidarity contribution from rich to poor member states, about national referendums allowing the present member states to reject newcomers and even about suspending any enlargement until the voters in france and the netherlands would finally approve the constitution they have rejected en masse. my group has a negative view of the economic and military choices in that constitutional text and of the lack of democracy which it affirms, but our criticism is not directed against the arrival of new member states with a lower standard of living. on the contrary, their admission could help the european union to focus more on our common large-scale and crossborder problems and less on unnecessary interference with matters that can be better assessed and decided at a smaller scale. croatia and macedonia are welcome in principle, and so is turkey, if it democratizes and respects human rights. my group opposes the imposition of unworkable demands on newcomers. financial and economic demands which lead to poverty and insecurity for large sections of their population do not contribute to progress but to the degradation of society. on the other hand, if the european union is to contribute to the quality of society, we must be tough on the environment, human rights and good governance. we are now absolutely certain that there is no mining of gold in romania, at rosia montana or elsewhere, with dangerous chemicals that lead to flows of toxic water in our own country and in neighbouring countries? are we confident that the krishna gorge in bulgaria will be protected as a vulnerable natural area against the encroaching road freight traffic? are the new laws copied and translated from the acquis communautaire actually applied? is the equality of the large roma population guaranteed? how are the orphans and food security? unfortunately, these questions have not yet been sufficiently answered for both candidate countries, which means that our assessment of what needs to be done can only be made in the next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. three devastating floods claimed 66 lives. the material damage amounted to eur 1.5 billion. in a situation like this, you expect national unity from the highest levels of authority. but nothing could be further from the truth. the president and the prime minister were publicly upset about the new elections. thanks to commissioner rehn, this danger to the country's political stability was averted in time. but for how long? all this at a critical stage in romania's accession to the european union. commissioner, how do you assess president basescu's political responsibility in this? the so-called super-protection clause which the european council has used exclusively for the date of accession of romania contains 11 specific areas of concern. i'd like to touch on a few pain points. commissioner, what about the tax benefits that the romanian state has promised to the buyer of the steel giant ispat sidex until 2007? does the commission consider that the concession given by prime minister tariceanu to provide financial assistance to romanian farmers for the purchase of tractors from the brasov plant is in breach of the eu competition directives? a second pain point concerns a robust border control by the romanian government. this is logical, because with the accession of romania, no less than 1457 kilometres of the total land border of 2508 kilometres will form the external border of the union. and let's not even talk about the romanian black sea coast guard. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. in short, the commission must be very concerned that training and financing problems are hampering the necessary recruitment of 4000 romanian border guards. is the commission taking action? almost inevitably, the third pain point undermines the urgency of governmental action to combat the evil of corruption. what is the commission doing, however, when the fight against corruption at the highest level is increasingly becoming a political instrument within the ruling coalition as well as within the executive? what remains, however, is that the new government will be judged on its moral claims. the romanian coalition can take it. then you're not refusing to disclose your assets.
the socialist group in the european parliament has consistently supported the enlargement of the european union to include the countries of central and eastern europe in recent years. the accession of these countries will finally put an end to the decades-long division of europe and the great inequality between east and west which this has caused. the socialist group therefore voted overwhelmingly on 13 april this year to accept the accession treaties with bulgaria and romania. given that there was still a 20-month period between the moment of consent by the european parliament and the envisaged date of accession, 1 january 2007, this consent was given in full knowledge that further progress would be needed in a number of important areas in both romania and bulgaria in order to be able to fully meet the requirements of membership of the european union. but my group also had confidence that both countries should be considered capable of taking the measures necessary for final accession and actually implementing them. it must be said that the inclusion of a safeguard clause allowing the date of accession to be postponed by one year and the firm commitment of both the commission and the council to fully involve the european parliament in the decision on the possible application of this safeguard clause played an important role in giving our consent. the socialist group is consistent in its policy on the enlargement of the european union; as was the case with the earlier accession of 10 new member states last year, we want the accession of bulgaria and romania to be a success for the people of these two countries, of course, without, however, being an unacceptable burden for the present european union. the reports presented today by the commission on the progress of preparations for accession will not be used to justify waiting another year. the points of concern and criticism mentioned in these reports are, in our view, above all a guide for the governments and parliaments of both countries, bulgaria and romania, to take the necessary measures within the time still remaining. at the same time, these reports also highlight areas where both countries could benefit from further support from the european union in order to achieve the stated objective of full membership of the european union in 2007. in our support for enlargement and in our criticism of the progress of the accession process, our group has no interest whatsoever in the party or parties currently in power in either country. the only thing that matters is what those in power are doing to meet the preconditions for full membership. we hope - in the interests of the people of bulgaria and romania, of course - that this view will be shared by the other groups in this parliament. the reports presented today by the commission do not give us any reason to conclude at this stage that both romania and bulgaria will sufficiently fulfil the conditions for accession on 1 january 2007. you don't have to do that now. we do see reason for moderate optimism that both countries will be able to meet the requirements at the next review, the really important one in april next year. however, much work will still be needed, both in the decision-making and the introduction of missing legislation and in the field of practical implementation; the fight against corruption and organised crime in particular deserves the greatest attention. as a personal note - as i have been very much involved in this problem - i would like to add that both reports rightly express the commission's concern, once again, about the situation of the roma in both countries and the continued lack of an adequate and effective approach by the governments of both countries. i think we should also make that point a major part of our final assessment next year. it is an important point for us, but it is also an important point for the roma in both countries. the bulgarian government seems to have picked up the reins with renewed energy and determination after a period of stagnation and delay due to the parliamentary elections and the difficulties in forming a government. it is reassuring to note that the main political parties in the country have united to lead their country into the european union. i would like to call on the main political parties in romania, the romanian government and the president of the country to show the same unity of opinion on accession and not to waste precious time on political harassment. finally, i would like to announce that my group, the socialist group, will, of course, in cooperation with the european commission, make its own analysis of the progress of the accession process in the coming months. in this way, we will be able to take a well-considered decision in the spring, in accordance with the agreements reached, as to whether both countries are really ready in time to take on all the responsibilities of membership of the european union.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, romania and bulgaria have again taken the necessary and important steps in the past year. nevertheless, the list of actions for both countries is substantial and the time until 1 january 2007 is limited. it's about romania. on the basis of the progress reports of the past six months, the reports i have received from romania and my own observations, i must honestly say that i still have a number of concerns. many of these have already been raised by colleagues. i shall briefly touch on three points. first, the independence of the judiciary. in its progress report last september, the commission pointed out that the independence of the judiciary was being undermined by the heavy budgetary constraints imposed by the ministry of finance. i would like to know what the situation is at the moment. secondly, it is clear from all the evidence - and this has been said before - that corruption is still rampant in the police, the judiciary and the political apparatus. to what extent does the commission intend to solve this by means of more legislation and regulation? is it not primarily a matter of consciousness, mentality and therefore time? finally, the psychiatric care. it is characterized by serious shortcomings and is not considered a priority, at least as i see it from recent developments in romania. how does the commission intend to convey the urgency of this problem? i would also like to hear from the commission specifically what it considers to be the key points in order to be able to reach a positive opinion next spring and thus to advocate accession on 1 january 2007. i have said it here many times, i really think it is very important that we stick to the conditions and criteria that were once so carefully formulated. candidate countries or countries with similar ambitions not only join an economic area but also opt for participation in political union, the european community of law. the commission is critical and i appreciate that. the question is whether the council will give serious consideration to the commission's reports. in december 2004, when it was decided to formally conclude the negotiations, he did not do so. the absence of the council from this debate is, in my view, also significant, whether there are other priorities or not. i am in favour of the accession of both countries, but it would be a real pleasure if it were to take place on the basis of what we have agreed.
mr president, there is good news from bulgaria, but also alarming news. since june’s elections, bulgaria has had ataka, a neo-nazi party, in its parliament. it obtained 8 % of the votes in june and now has 12 %. this party denies the holocaust and, on its website, you can find discussions about how to castrate roma and receive congratulations from the klu klux klan. behind this promotion of racism and xenophobia are the former communist agents who are building a shadow economy through fake privatisation and manipulations. their strategy is to divert people’s attention from high-level corruption by raising anti-roma, anti-semitic and anti-minority sentiments in bulgaria. bulgaria has democratic politicians who want to fight corruption and poverty, but they lack support from us in the european union. the eu has an obligation to fix the problems in bulgaria because it has cooperated with the wrong partners for 15 years already. how does the commission view the recent cases of violence between roma and bulgarians provoked by anti-gypsyism? secondly, do ec grants help put a stop to racism, or do they stimulate corrupt political structures?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. an introduction that gives a mixed picture of some of the progress since we last spoke about it, but also some of the problems that remain. i want to focus my contribution briefly on romania. it is absolutely true that the basescu government has good intentions and is trying hard to work on further reforms. i think that's a compliment his government deserves. there are still a number of problems that remain. first, the continuing corruption. honesty by decree is not possible and the government will have to do more than say very clearly every time that it is against corruption. in particular, tackling people high in the official hierarchy and criminally prosecuting ex-politicians who have been corrupt is of great importance to further building trust. of course, the judiciary has its own role to play in this, but the government should do everything possible to show the first tangible results quickly. then there is border management, the fight against crossborder crime, but also human smuggling. there is absolutely still progress to be made, also in view of the fact that romania will soon have one of the largest, if not the largest external borders, both on land and by sea. third point: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. my dutch colleague, joost lagendijk, has spoken very clearly about this. and fourth, maybe a seemingly minor point, but not really: the position of people with mental problems in hospitals and the situation in orphanages. i think that further progress should be made in this area too. the commissioner has been clear, including in his papers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment. we will have to see with the commissioner, now in the autumn but certainly also in april, whether a delay is necessary. i hope not, but if it has to be, it has to be. we also need to consider whether, after possible accession, chapters should be deactivated if they are not sufficiently implemented; the council must also give serious consideration to this; it is a pity that the council is not here. i would like to say to romania, and i will conclude, mr president, that we are critical of these criteria; it is not against romania, it is not a yellow card, but it is a push for further reforms, it is a push for more freedom for the romanians themselves and it is the guarantee of our values as europe, which we must adhere to very strongly in any enlargement to maintain our credibility.
on behalf of the ind/dem group president, i warmly welcome the socialist and liberal group's wish to think more carefully about patents, which gives hope for the future. we have already done so and we have come to the conclusion that the human body and its parts are not patentable, in our firm belief, because their operation is not an invention of ours but a discovery and therefore not patentable. so this is true of embryos, stem cells, germ cells and the genome. you can't claim ownership of this. it is true that the european commission rightly states in the second 16c report that totipotent stem cells are not patentable. unfortunately, the commission leaves ambiguity about the patentability of pluripotent stem cells. these are also parts of the human body and are excluded from patentability under article 5 (1) of the directive. the patent which is the concrete cause of this debate concerns human germ cells. the grant of this patent infringes the principle that the human body and its parts are not patentable. it would be better if the groups could express themselves more strongly and clearly, particularly in the joint resolution. the european parliament must play its role of control properly. this means making a convincing objection to the european patent office.
i would like to thank mrs klamt, on behalf of the alde group, and on my own behalf, for the work she has done on this sensitive and sensitive dossier. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. europe has become a country of immigrants! we need immigration for our economy and people want to come to europe to work. it is therefore astonishing that we are unable to come up with a genuine common european immigration policy and i hope that the report which we are hopefully going to adopt tomorrow is a first step in that direction. on the one hand, asylum seekers and refugees, people who are persecuted, should all be able to find shelter here. on the other hand, we must have legal instruments for migrant workers, in which the needs of the labour market play a major role; we call that a win-win situation, win for us and win for the immigrants. as far as the mass regulation is concerned, that is of course a terrible dilemma. we do recognize the risk of a vacuum, but we cannot ignore the plight of illegal workers. i would therefore call on the two large groups to support paragraph 15, because it covers both aspects very well indeed. as regards the green card proposal, i would like to say to mrs klamt that the amendment we tabled clearly refers to a european green card model and that it does not have to be the same as the american one. for example, there's also the canadian model, so we can develop our own model. on the sensitive issue of voting rights. i know it's sensitive, but it's an essential part of actual immigration. we cannot seriously talk about full participation in social, economic and political life if we do not also talk about the right to vote. finally, of course, we must introduce free movement for all european citizens, and i would like to say, and in that respect i would like to say, bravo, commissioner frattini, because i have heard very well what you have said, you are going to support that.
i would like to begin by expressing my disappointment at the absence of the british presidency. i wonder if mr louis could afford to adopt such an attitude in the british house of commons. secondly, i also congratulate the two rapporteurs and i would like to speak in particular about democracy in the one minute allocated to me. in 2004 we reached an agreement with the council on the common foreign and security policy. the agreement stated that we would hold regular high-level consultations on the content of this common foreign and security policy. that agreement was never respected by the council. there has never been any consultation at a high political level. now the council feels that we have broken the gentlemen's agreement because we have put a certain part of that money into the reserve; i don't think it is. i think the council itself has broken the gentlemen's agreement. the gentlemen's agreement covers the administrative expenditure of both parliament and the council. i cannot, with the best will in the world, regard the expenditure of the common foreign and security policy as administrative expenditure. the democratic system must therefore control it.
in writing. today there was another attempt to abuse money and rules which are meant to solve problems across national borders. transeuropean networks were intended to make up for past shortcomings. state borders often proved to be an obstacle to the establishment and maintenance of high-speed long-distance connections. old rail lines and roads were mainly inland. european cooperation can make a useful contribution to links between two neighbouring countries, or across the territory of a third country between two countries which do not share a border. the original co-financing of no more than 10% was intended for this purpose only. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the amendments were intended to enable his country to pay for half of a non-earthquake-resistant motorway bridge to sicily? i should have voted against the adoption of that. i object to the eu's increasing involvement in national administrative deliberations and prestige projects. the money available for the tens could be better used for cross-border rail links, especially the previously neglected east-west links.
in writing. a few years ago, two major deadly epidemics threatened, those of the now-discredited mystery disease sars and a possible combination of bird flu with human flu variants. i thought that was a lot of waiting around back then. international travel from disease hotspots was not or hardly controlled, little attention was paid to research into the emergence of new influenza variants, preventive vaccination of poultry was lacking and vaccine stocks for mass vaccination of humans against already known influenza variants were completely inadequate. i have previously drawn attention to these shortcomings in the parliamentary sessions of 7 april 2003 and 13 may 2003 and in questions to the european commission in 2003 and 2004. the european union and its member states were then hardly prepared for a great danger in which millions of people could die in a short time. also threatening was the need to clear human-held birds en masse. today those problems are still unresolved, but the attitude of this parliament and of the european commission has changed. those who, like the uen group, believe that unnecessary panic is being created and that the bird hunters in particular should be protected are still only a small minority. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
president. - we are only 11 days away from the parliamentary elections in azerbaijan. remarkably, reports of spectacular dismissals and arrests of government officials and top figures from the country's oil industry dominate baku's news coverage. the official statements and charges are conspiracy with the opposition against the legitimate authority and corruption. all in all, a somber picture for a ballot. i am therefore very surprised that the joint motion for a resolution does not mention these current events. the opposition is being put aside for a while as a coup d'etat player in the public eye. and by the way, president ilham aliyev can present himself as the unwavering maintainer of peace and order. no wonder i heard a great connoisseur of azerbaijan sigh last night: "that parliamentary election on november 6th? wasted time, wasted money!" but his commitment does not end there: he will also travel to azerbaijan as an observer. and the same applies tonight to the european institutions, the commission and our house. any electoral improvement is welcome. i therefore call on the commission and indeed on all the international organisations concerned to urge the azerbaijani authorities to ensure that all voters are carefully registered (for example, by inking their thumbs). a precautionary measure that president aliyev said in a speech to regional magistrates yesterday to seriously consider. there is no shortage of voting rigging in the recent past. a truly national tradition which is today, moreover, taking on ever more refined forms in azerbaijan. madam president, the silencing and marginalization of the democratic opposition in azerbaijan can have serious political consequences in the long run, and i would like to emphasize this point here. and not just at the national level, but also at the regional level. the repressive, authoritarian actions of the current regime are triggering a process of political hardening and radicalisation among its opponents. it will be reflected in increasing anti-western attitudes, it does not underestimate the commission. this radicalisation will also be reflected in a growing islamist tendency. this is the case, for example, with an opinion poll carried out in the winter of 2004/2005. in that poll, 23.2 percent supported the idea of an islamic state, and another 28.9 percent welcomed the partial introduction of islamic law (sharia). a clear sign, especially in conjunction with the current tighter islamic rule in tehran. commission, the wealth of energy resources in azerbaijan, nor the lofty words of democratisation and (geo) political stability should temporarily blind us to the fundamental shortcoming of azerbaijan and its people: the democratic rule of law is lacking! you must, together with the council, speak clearly and directly to the authorities in baku. regardless of the internal election struggle. and especially when such serious charges of plotting a coup and embezzling public funds are brought against prominent citizens. in short, let us be especially wary of the misty power play being played out today by president aliyev and his apparently changing entourage. the game is about greedy sharing of the oil money that flows freely and the playing off of old party cadres and reformists. european distance and warning are really in order here. for the welfare of the azerbaijani society.
mr president, in the amendments before us there is no change in the amounts. we are not voting on the amounts. there is only a remark on it. that is the only change. we will vote only on the remark. we will vote on the figures later.
in writing. i hereby declare that i voted for the amendment on cesi 446 concerning budget line 04030302.
the author. mr president, authoritarian regimes have come to power not only in ukraine, georgia and kyrgyzstan since the collapse of the soviet union, but also in belarus, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. it is not democracy that has won there, but a group of people who have gained experience in the old state apparatus and the security services. these people have no other objective than to remain in power themselves. they privatize state-owned enterprises, distort election results, limit the scope of opposition, impede free organizations, restrict the press, and use violence against their people when necessary. uzbekistan is in need of radical change, but the impetus to this was blocked on 13 may by brutal violence against demonstrators, which left hundreds dead. since then, the outside world has been remarkably quiet. does it have to do with economic and military interests? the dictatorship in uzbekistan must be allowed to continue because it has made itself useful for the military intervention in afghanistan? are we abandoning the people of the land? the european parliament must not subordinate its rights and freedoms to other considerations, and the motion for a resolution contributes to the necessary position.
author. - mr president, the repression in tibet is often on the agenda here. china sees this as a nearly empty area that needs to be colonized and made accessible, after which it can be further developed in the current chinese way. it's all about discipline and economic growth without room for dissent. this is contrary to the culture, traditions and interests of the tibetan people who have learned to survive in their inhospitable territory and want to be left alone. the problem is also present in china among other peoples with a different language and culture, such as the uyghurs, who are related to the turkic peoples in the former soviet republics of central asia, but tibet in particular has been attracting attention since the flight of the dalai lama to india. we see no real improvement in the way china treats the people of tibet. even if the result of our statements here is not what we want to achieve, it is good that we continue to do so. china must not be given the impression that europe is accepting the existing reality for economic reasons. finally, the death penalty must be abolished in china, just as it must be abolished in america and everywhere else in the world. let us fight against this everywhere and for human rights.
president. - businessmen like to talk about a win-win situation, a situation that benefits everyone. globalisation is not experienced as such by millions of people in europe and the world. some benefit, others experience only the negative effects, a win-lose situation. although critics say it's not possible, i believe we should try to make globalization a win-win situation. the report by mr brejc contains some interesting proposals to achieve this. i support his call for the use of eu money to mitigate the negative effects of globalisation. it should be clear what is meant by this. we should not be pumping money around unnecessarily and we should not be trying to keep industries going that are doomed to disappear. instead, we need to make money available to ensure that people who lost their jobs because of globalization have the opportunity to find work in another sector. the money must therefore be used to create new opportunities and not to prolong unnecessarily the suffering of sectors in distress. in so far as this is the case, i welcome the european commission's proposal to set up a globalisation fund. this does not necessarily require the mobilisation of new funds. it could be seen how existing funds could be used to give this globalisation fund a leg up. because it's obvious that we have to do something. if we do nothing for people who lose their jobs because of globalization, we're going to have people who end up in a lose-lose situation. i thank mr brejc for this report and i think that this report gives rise to further action, not words but deeds.
mr. chairman, for a secret service, the cia is in the news a lot. germany and italy are angry because the cia in both countries is alleged to have kidnapped a radical imam and, as my colleague has just said, spain is currently investigating the transit of suspects through mallorca. there are also allegedly secret camps, also in europe, where prisoners are unlawfully detained. in the first case the european countries concerned are extremely angry, but in the second case they are complicit. that's what you say. you say that would be against human rights, against the european convention on human rights, but i am very curious to see what you are actually going to do about it. the council of europe is launching an investigation and you say: keep me posted. that seems to me to be a very poor interpretation. the european union as a community of values cannot look the other way at the moment, and i want you to be active. i want you to not only ask the governments, "oh is it true that ...?" but to ask the ngos, the press, to talk to parliamentarians, and i want to hear from you that if it is true, this would be a violation of article 6 and that an article 7 procedure would then be triggered. i want to hear you say that article 7 applies, if it's true! but, mr president, this is not just an institutional issue, this is not just something that the european commission should do, although i do think that it should indeed be much more active. it is also a political issue. a polish colleague has just rightly said that such matters should also be discussed in our own country and i think we should all go to our sister parties, because this must also be discussed in the national parties. let us not only put the responsibility on the commission, but let us also, through our own sister parties, the european political parties, ensure that the search for truth is carried out.
it is not only dictatorships, mr president, whose very existence is threatened, that imprison people in unacceptable ways. since the use of the military base at guantanamo bay as a prison for non-americans who can be held indefinitely without trial and without the support of a lawyer, we know that such a violation of human rights is also being practised by the most powerful member of nato. in europe we expect almost everyone to reject such practices, even when they are directed against people whom we consider dangerous to our life in peace and democracy. the existence of secret prisons for the benefit of others in the territory of present or future member states of the european union, or in states which benefit from our neighbourhood policy, is a stain on europe's claim to a democratic rule of law and the protection of human rights. the commission and the council must therefore do everything possible to put an end to the existence of such prisons. the commissioner frattini now reports that the member states concerned categorically deny their co-responsibility. and then he refers to the council of europe, which is already dealing with this matter. if such prisons exist, it has always been the intention to keep their existence secret forever. denial is the first tool for protecting that secrecy. denial does not convince me, and certainly does not convince those who have called attention to this. the european union itself must investigate whether there is an american network of secret prisons and whether some of them are located in europe. i can agree with the procedural points which mrs buitenweg has already mentioned. this case must be investigated to the very bottom rather than simply denied.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the bananas are not only produced by large multinational companies with large numbers of low-paid workers, but also increasingly by small farmers. since the 1980s, there has been a good cooperation between cooperatives of small farmers in the third world and voluntary import organizations in europe. in switzerland, more than half of the bananas consumed are now imported on the basis of fair trade. the main factor is not the country of origin, but a production method that protects people and the environment. unlike in switzerland, the success of fair trade in the member states of the european union is hampered by a tradition of quotas and levies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the bananas from countries outside africa, the caribbean and the pacific, which were colonies of member states half a century ago, are not imported unless they are covered by import licences for a few large european and american companies. my question to the commission is as follows: will it then create room for a switch to the swiss model or will it simply replace volume restrictions with higher import tariffs which change little or nothing? the latin american countries will then say that europe is in breach.
author. – mr president, i would like to say a few words on our reasons for raising this oral question. as we explained in the text, many member states have not implemented this directive. discussions are taking place between the commission, the services concerned and the member state representatives, and in the context of ceiops. however, parliament as co-legislator should also claim to have a role in interpretations if there really are problems with the directive. this is why we asked you to come here to discuss this with us, commissioner. reading between the lines, you will also note our concern that member states are not taking implementation of the directive seriously. we also urge you to make an important issue of the pensions directive – because it is a separate issue specifically concerning financial markets and social policy – particularly where respect for national, social and labour laws are at stake and where host country rules, rather than the country of origin principle, are prevalent. we are eager to be involved closely in the outcome of the implementation and the possible interpretations. we raised two other issues: the involvement of ceiops and the state of affairs regarding the prudential rules, as well as possible additional quantitative rules added by member states, but i will not go into details on those. a very important point for me, not just as spokesperson for the pse group, but also as a dutch delegate, is my concern over developments in occupational pension schemes due not only to financial market developments but also to regulatory developments: there is a trend to move from defined benefit to defined contribution systems. this is a very fast-growing development in the uk and ireland, where in particular new participants in schemes are not given a defined benefit system. that is not possible in the netherlands because we have collective systems and obligatory systems in most cases, and we are very attached to them. i do not agree that a shift from defined benefits to defined contribution is a necessary development, let alone a desirable one, because the quality of pension schemes is a major asset of the european social model. the first pillar in the netherlands would be incomplete and insufficient without a second pillar of such high quality. it is also important that this tradition give the best overall results. therefore, these blurred borders are also a concern for us and we would invite you to clarify your interpretation of these developments and how you will debate this issue further with us.
i would like to thank the president of the european court of auditors for his report. i can only repeat what other speakers have already said, it is extremely unfortunate that for the eleventh time in a row there is no positive das and that is a message that will resonate in european public opinion. we must work to make it positive and i think the problem lies at the heart of the member states. it is a pity that the president is not taking the trouble to be here today. i find the other banks in the member states also extremely empty this morning. i do not know whether that is symptomatic of the interest in the whole financial control office. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. most member states do not want that. i think that this house should continue to work on it. the suggestion in the court's report to set up certification bodies for all the other parts of the budget than agriculture seems to me to be a suggestion which we should examine further. it is positive that a positive das can be given for pre-accession aid. in 2004, the experience gained in the new member states has not yet been taken into account. we hope that this experience will continue in the future, so that the control mechanisms are also well established in the new countries. i did not hear the president of the court of auditors say it this morning, but i did hear him say it yesterday, and i welcome the peer review he has announced on the functioning of the court of auditors itself. no institution can do without criticism, without constructive criticism. i believe that an evaluation of the court's work in recent years could be beneficial to the whole of the court's work in europe.
mr president, several of the previous speakers have already made comparisons with the united states, and in the economic committee on which i am a member we have many transatlantic contacts. what strikes me is that there is a kind of reversal of assessment of how things are going, particularly in the financial market. i do not know whether you have seen the financial times this morning, where the front page also once again shows how envious people in the united states are of what we have done here in europe in the last session of this parliament. in october we adopted an 800-page regulatory package on the capital adequacy of banks, and this gives us a huge head start on the united states. that is something far too few people realise. i do not know whether you are familiar with jeremy rifkin's book on the european dream, but that also shows that we sometimes get it wrong. what strikes me is that you, the commission, do not realise that we could do much more, including with the lisbon strategy and with macroeconomic policy in particular. we are sitting in europe talking our way into the ditch because some things are not going well, but that also offers opportunities. we could use the unrest over the stability and growth pact, for example, to improve macroeconomic policy and we could use our lead in financial regulation to make the investments that this can bring about work properly and to steer macroeconomic policy from the commission. i am afraid that has something to do with your liberal view that the market does everything. now, i think the americans could help you out of that dream too, the market cannot do it by itself, we will have to steer that and we expect leadership from the commission on that point.
president barroso, a year ago you promised us that you would make fundamental european rights a top priority during the buttiglione affair. that's good, because that's what the citizens expect. unfortunately, the work programme contains no mention of this promise. yes, there will be a communication on gender equality in 2006, which is good, but what about the other categories of discrimination? where is the horizontal anti-discrimination legislation? all citizens must be able to enforce their rights in court, otherwise the eu's anti-discrimination policy is worthless. why has not even the promised feasibility study for new article 13 legislation been included and what about the proposals on free movement of married same sex couples requested by parliament? president barroso, will your commission really promote fundamental rights, will we have a real union of values or will it remain a mere empty promise?
- i'm the reporter. mr president, it is a great honour to present this report to you. it is an own-initiative report, and there is every reason for it, because the level of poverty in europe has fallen by 95%. even without a european constitution, we in the committee on fisheries can ensure that an own-initiative proposal, as presented, is translated into a directive. i thank the commission for the rapidity with which it has acted. the new directive now being drawn up on the basis of this report shows that we in the committee on fisheries see the opportunity to develop a sound policy for european fisheries, to ensure that eel is preserved, that exports of glass beef to central asia are restricted and that control measures are introduced, so that member states finally tackle this problem.
in writing. the vvd delegation considered that it would have to vote against the amended brejc report on the social dimension of globalisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the vvd considers that social policy is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, who has been appointed as the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the vvd believes that this can be enforced much more efficiently by the market and that eu action is completely unnecessary and undesirable.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my respect for the work and persistence of the rapporteur, mr sacconi, but i would also like to thank a number of colleagues for their persistence: nassauer, vidal, herczog, erika mann, thomas mann, langen, roth-behrendt, goebbels, manders and others, because without them as fellow fighters for a workable reach we could not have achieved any result. mr. speaker, in our modern society, we are surrounded by chemistry. our personal care, our diet, our health products, all use chemical substances or techniques. the chemical industry is of great importance in europe, it contributes 440 billion to the gnp, and it employs 1.3 million people in 27,000 companies. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but i am saying that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the european union. with this mammoth legislative project, we can give new confidence and we can also convince. the scheme as originally proposed by the commission was too bureaucratic, too much paperwork, too costly without actually improving the result. i think we must provide guarantees for a workable project which will actually be able to provide products for that society in 11 years' time which are absolutely safe. mr president, i have another problem. we have reached some compromises, fine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the liberal group and the socialist group may now think that these compromises will give them a little more air, a little more room. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask you not to throw sand in your eyes, but to look again very carefully at the texts.
president. - mr president, it is very rare that such a complicated proposal has been discussed here. the commission's reach proposal needs to be improved. we all agree on that. what that improvement should entail is something on which we differ strongly in this house. we reached an acceptable compromise in the committee on the environment on 4 october. points that are important to me, like a risk and volume-based registration, have been killed. i voted in favour of the final vote. i also fully support the compromise reached in the committee on the environment. the so-called sacconi-nassauer compromise does not satisfy me. we are losing some of the results achieved in the committee on the environment with this approach. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his approach and for the good cooperation he has shown. i understand his approach after the vote in the committee on the environment, given the limited support he received in the final vote. i support the green's rescue reach plan on most points. i do not, however, support the abandonment of use and exposure categories. i would like to draw attention to a number of points, because i consider them very important. an appropriate solution should be sought for the inorganic substances. metals, ores and concentrates cannot be treated in the same way as organic chemicals. i expect the council to deal with this problem and we will reach a conclusion on this in the second reading. the burden on smes must be bearable. after the vote, a new cost-benefit analysis should be carried out to assess the impact of the vote on the burden borne by smes. consortium building should be encouraged, inter alia, to keep costs low. the volume must be considered along with the risk. it is precisely the most dangerous substances that require the most information, and not necessarily the largest volumes. this remains a major problem. finally, animal testing should be avoided wherever possible, further progress remains necessary. if this wish list is fulfilled, i think we're headed in the right direction.
president. - i should like to begin by expressing my sincere appreciation and thanks to mr guido sacconi, who i think has done a very good job. the reach proposal calls for testing 30 000 substances, and reach is thus a source of innovation, but also of simplification. more than 40 directives will be repealed when reach comes into force. reach is therefore good for public health, good for the environment and good for innovation. there are many fine amendments to make reach more workable and less costly and to limit the number of animal tests, but unfortunately there are still quite a few companies that are against innovation, that prefer to wallow in ignorance and have no sense in the search for safer and cleaner alternatives. i think it is a bit disappointing, to be honest, that they are getting a lot of political support. we all took the lisbon challenge. innovation is at the heart of the strong competitiveness of european industry. without continuous innovation to make products cleaner, safer and healthier, european industry will not be able to compete with china, india and the united states. the compromise now on the table cannot be supported by the dutch social democrats. it is a huge undermining if instead of 30 000 substances, only 8 000 substances are now subjected to the full reach test regime, because this will continue to create uncertainty for consumers, unnecessarily prolong the risk of allergy, cancer and occupational diseases and potentially toxic substances in the environment. and last but not least, mr president, this also throws overboard an incentive for continuous innovation by european industry.
the successful european integration of the western balkan countries is of great importance for the region and for europe as a whole. it is one of the political priorities of my group, the pse group. last week we therefore adopted a position on the european future of the western balkans, which we set out in a comprehensive strategy paper which has now been published. the starting point is our full support for the thessaloniki agenda, the achievement of lasting peace, stability and prosperity in the balkans within a process of integration into the european union and with a view of course to eventual accession. the first step in this process is to seek solutions to problems affecting the whole region. the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, economic development, refugee policy, cooperation with the hague tribunal and the fight against corruption and crime. these are, on the one hand, conditions for successful integration into the european union, but they are also closely linked to regional security and stability in that region, which is still fragile. these problems are therefore not confined to the bilateral relationship between the balkan countries and the european union. the main stakeholders in this process are the countries themselves. cooperation between the countries of the western balkans is therefore an essential component of our strategy. the eu must provide a solid framework, but the momentum to solve these problems must ultimately come from the region itself. and the same goes for the pain points that are still there. the decisions on the state structure of bosnia-herzegovina, the relationship between serbia and a likely independent montenegro and the status of kosovo will have to be taken by regional politicians. but we also need to see the positive developments. we are cautiously optimistic. bosnia has achieved a breakthrough in reform, as far as the police apparatus is concerned, and that has been an important concession from the serbian part of that country. the commission's intention to grant fyrom candidate status reflects the steady progress made in that country. finally, we support the commission in its three cs for enlargement: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the subject.
i am sure that many historians will be able to comment on what exactly happened in europe in the spring of 2005 in terms of attitudes, climate and the vote on enlargement. was it the fact that we still had to deal with the 2004 enlargement, were it the two "no's" in the constitutional referenda, i do not know, it will be seen later, but the fact is that the enlargement of the european union is under attack. many people have the impression that the majority of the population of the european union is against it. and many politicians are happy to hide behind these skeptical citizens. that is why i am glad that the european commission has kept its back straight. i am therefore pleased that the european commission is arguing, arguing - and i agree with it - that the enlargement of the european union, as we have seen it so far, is one of the most successful policies of the european union and that it would therefore be very short-sighted to go back on the promises made to romania and bulgaria, to turkey and croatia, and to the countries of the western balkans. but i am also glad that the commission is right to draw conclusions from the process as we have known it so far. the fact that implementation is more important than making promises, that - and i am echoing mr brok - the european union itself must be able to take in new countries, that an assessment by country must be based on facts and not on automaticity and, finally, that further enlargement will only succeed if politicians show political leadership and are prepared to defend enlargement in the face of their sometimes indeed sceptical populations. if the commission continues to advocate such an enlargement - based on facts, not on promises, not on automaticities, an enlargement based on political vision and analysis, not on opinion polls - then it will have the full support of my group even now.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. at the same time, we must realize that there has been a considerable imbalance between deepening and widening. in nice, the deepening should have taken place, but it did not, but the widening afterwards did. we must take it upon ourselves that this grounding has yet to take place. i say to my colleague wiersma in the netherlands: my party was 80% for the constitution, if yours is next time, then maybe we'll make it in the netherlands. at the same time, we must now, before the time comes, regain some credibility, and that means that we must take the criteria for enlargement more seriously than ever. if you set criteria, both in terms of financing and in terms of enlargement, you have to follow them afterwards, otherwise you lose credibility. one of these criteria is absorption capacity. we will need to have sufficient support, both institutional and popular, to enable further enlargement. we must show that we take the criteria of the countries themselves seriously. as for romania and bulgaria, i can really hope that they will be able to join in 2007, but it will now depend on them what they do in the next six months. in turkey, if we want things to go well, we will have to make it clear that around personal expression, freedom of expression, the laws will have to be adjusted; that the cyprus problem will have to be resolved, recognising the two sides of the story; and thirdly, for example, in the area of religious freedom, we cannot wait for years, until after the next election in turkey, for something to actually happen. the commission has now clearly stated: it can be done in the short term! we support the commission in this and i think we should continue in this way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, we must all stand firm as europeans against the populists who frighten people about enlargement, but it would be wrong to confuse this with people who are rightly concerned about the balance between deepening and enlargement.
the only way forward is to have a single european blacklist based on common criteria. my group, alde, also wholeheartedly agrees with that. the secondary proposal, while well-intentioned, was rightly considered too weak by the transport committee of this house. crude as it may sound, the dramatic events of the past year seem to have led many to a new kind of awareness, namely that a simple compilation of national blacklists is pointless. a consolidated list which is not automatically legally valid throughout the union is a gesture for the bühne without any added value. of course, that can be worth something. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but that image is exactly what we wanted to get rid of. i therefore see this proposal as a typical example of the eu's added value. because let us be honest, the fact that, for example, onur air - and the example has been given before - was grounded at some point in the netherlands in order to be able to take off in belgium is of course absurd. such practices simply confuse the traveller, not to mention create potentially unsafe situations. a uniform list based on common european safety criteria is therefore the only step forward and is as clear as it is to travellers, to the european consumer. the european parliament has made clear its ambitions to improve aviation safety by means of many amendments. the commission has been very helpful and willing to do so, and the council has also shown its determination. we have therefore been able to table an agreement at first reading very quickly. during the debate on the proposal in the committee on transport, i repeatedly called for new blacklisting rules to be linked to the existing safa directive and for the powers of the european aviation agency easa to be extended. i am therefore very pleased with the results we have achieved together here, and with the commission's commitments to come forward with proposals in the very short term to extend and strengthen the powers of the easa; the commissioner has just indicated that these commitments have been concretely fulfilled this afternoon. another step in the right direction, for which i thank you, commissioner barrot. we are working hard to achieve coherent and clear regulations with the aim of improving safety and providing clear, unambiguous information for the traveller. no one can argue with that. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, for all the work she has done in this area.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. failure of the engines, air pressure, oxygen supply or navigation system could result in a crash and the death of all the passengers. such a sector becomes particularly vulnerable when it is left to a free market, where new price-fighters are constantly trying to attract as many passengers as possible with low operating costs and low fares in a deadly competition. companies that cut back on safety measures can cause a proportionate number of accidents. until now, the member states and the european union have not worked well together. when unsafe airlines were excluded from taking off and landing by a member state, it was hardly publicized and had no impact on neighbouring states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i have previously urged an active approach to exclusion and education. dangerous companies and their successors in title should be excluded and shortcomings of other companies should be fully disclosed to users. this proposal is a step in that direction but no doubt ingenious companies will continue to look for ways of avoiding it as much as possible. i call on the commission to come forward with further proposals in the coming years, if the situation arises, so that passengers and people on the ground cannot become victims of short-sighted entrepreneurs.
president, commissioner barrot and also in particular mr darling - because at this late hour of the evening the council presidency seat is often empty and i very much appreciate the fact that the council presidency is also represented in this debate - it is a good thing that we have been able to unite on one european blacklist, which lists all airlines that are banned throughout europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, in particular for all her efforts, including during the negotiations with the council, and to congratulate her in particular on the result achieved today, which puts an end, already at first reading, to the present undesirable and unclear situation, whereby the passenger is in uncertainty or in ignorance about the safety status of an airline. the recent tragic air accidents this summer have underlined the need for this legislation. the european parliament, mr president, is the driving force behind the plan and we can be rightly proud of that, because the individual member states felt little for it at the beginning. the commission proposal was also limited to the exchange of information only. but thanks to the united and decisive action of parliament, we now have the european blacklist. the citizens of europe have every right to do so, because it is not possible for an airline not to be allowed to land in one country and to land in the neighbouring country. this underlines once again the importance of a european dimension and of tackling the problem. i have tried to make clear in this regulation the right of passengers to compensation, because without this right the regulation is a sham. it is a good thing that it has succeeded. i hope that this regulation will contribute to the safety of the aviation sector and to the improvement of the position of the passenger in europe.
mr president, over the next 20 years, more than a third of the 150 nuclear power stations in europe will have to be decommissioned. is it the taxpayers who pay for it or the polluters? the lack of funds must not lead to the prolonged operation of obsolete power stations. waste is more than the radioactive material left over after decommissioning. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. the rapporteur, mr harms, rightly proposes that energy companies should annually put money into a fund to cover all the costs of decommissioning, processing and storing radioactive waste. the inclusion of these costs in the price of nuclear energy does not make it artificially cheap through subsidies and also shows how low the economic return is. the lack of transparency in the link between civilian and military objectives is still leading to outright distortions of competition and disguised export subsidies. we agree with the proposal to draw up a list of criteria for decommissioning, which will be linked to reserve funds into which electricity companies will deposit sufficient funds for waste treatment and decommissioning.
president. - for years europe and america have done nothing against the terrible dictatorship in iraq because iraq supplied oil. instead of supporting the internal resistance in time, an external intervention was finally carried out with false arguments and without the approval of the united nations. this violent and one-sided pursuit of the views and interests of a great power is provoking sections of the shiite majority to choose, out of disgust with the western occupiers, a theocratic dictatorship on the model of iran. the positive thing is that it has now proved possible to put an end to the situation in which the kurdish north and the shiite south were oppressed wings of the central region around baghdad. the new constitution, through federalism, protects these disadvantaged areas from oppression and exploitation, to the benefit of 80% of the population. the only chance of democracy in the new länder succeeding is the rapid end to the foreign military presence and the domination of foreign companies. staying means a new provocation that will continue to provoke resistance. what is the timetable for ending the military presence of the member states of the european union and what is the european union's contribution to replacing the failing american company halliburton, which cannot repair the utilities, by supporting domestic iraqi solutions?
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: compare this triple voting with the national experience under the ba'ath regime for 35 years. first, 12 years of no elections at all, and then only show-offs. what a contrast and what a political advance! we don't hear about that in this house. the internal and external threat of the reconstruction of the two rivers continues unabated. the future of a federal iraq therefore looks very fragile. and that affects europe as well, a prominent iraqi politician assured me earlier this week. if the forces of destruction are overcome, our continent will be far from safe. the council and the commission, what can the european union do in concrete terms for the iraqi state and people in this precarious situation? first, to put heavy pressure on baghdad's neighbours not to fuel the terrorist fire across the border. secondly, to help lay the foundations of the democratic rule of law on the banks of the tigris. "we must and will learn from the europeans", my iraqi friend said hopefully. let us not let that hope be ashamed!
president. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. an unbridled free market economy without restraint on excessive consumption and production leads to ever-increasing greenhouse gas emissions and thus to an aggravation of the problem. economic growth is like a sacred cow, untouchable. every consumer product must be available on the market at the same time all over the world, but we must remember that even sacred cows can spread dirty gases. and i mean that not only figuratively, but literally, when you look at the contribution of intensive livestock farming to carbon emissions. the nuclear energy lobby is using the climate change issue to put itself back on the map. and, strangely enough, they don't tell us about the huge mountains of waste that they're producing and that will be a big problem for us for the next 10,000 years. let's not solve one environmental crisis with another. the billions still going to the development and promotion of nuclear energy could be better spent on wind, solar and hydroelectric power. emissions from the transport sector will still be 28% above 1990 levels in 2030. it is a difficult sector to take action on, because this sector is the symbol of an international free market economy. i therefore call for a tax on air and sea traffic. unlike emissions trading, taxation cannot shift the burden onto developing countries.
president. - i welcome the work programme presented by commission president barroso yesterday in this house. there is also much good in fighting climate change. for example, i wholeheartedly support the inclusion of air traffic in the emissions trading system and the revision of the 2001 directive on national emission ceilings. i do not think the european commission is very ambitious in this matter. we've been talking for years about drastic reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but meanwhile, emissions are rising every year. not just globally, but within various member states. president. - if we want to be taken seriously in montreal, we must not only dare to talk about reductions, but also make firm agreements to take real measures, if necessary with a smaller number of countries. i would ask you, commissioner dimas, to come up with a strategy in which you propose measures to make our long-term objective achievable, because despite the positive impact of the proposals presented this week, they are only inspired by a short-term vision.
president. - mr wijkman, i would like to thank you for your excellent and powerful report. i would also like to congratulate mrs beckett on her commitment to climate policy. ladies and gentlemen, parliament is today calling again for an ambitious climate policy, and there is every reason for that, as commissioner dimas has explained. in montreal, we have to lay the foundations for a new climate policy. we are facing a huge challenge: clean energy and cleaner transport, but also less energy consumption. europe has been leading the way so far and has achieved a great deal. there is something to celebrate in montreal. the main challenge for europe now is to ensure that the biggest emitter of co2, the united states, also accepts commitments and that countries like china and india are involved in a fair way in the whole process. the only way to do this is to tackle the problems ourselves and show that the european economy is getting a huge boost from innovation, from more energy-efficient production, from more efficient production and from putting sustainable products on the market. but unfortunately, with the exception of the united kingdom, most countries have not yet met their own obligations, and unfortunately the cleanest and most fuel-efficient cars are not from europe but from japan. we have to do better and we have to do more! this can only be achieved if the european union also involves society in its climate policy. (applause from the left)
mr president, i want to raise the fact that this house is set to debate the world summit on the information society in tunis only next month. it is a un summit on the freedom of information. the delegations attending that summit have had their internet access and e-mail filtered in their hotels. they see demonstrators being arrested and journalists being harassed and beaten. tapes on human rights infringements have been confiscated by the tunisian police. there is no freedom of information in tunisia. european union delegations are in tunis right now. i do not think we can wait another month to condemn these events. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group president. - i shall try to do that. we're facing a very unpleasant decision today or tomorrow, actually. we are going to vote against the commission's proposal, but in my case it is not by any means a heartfelt vote. as a parliament we have a duty to contribute to the legislative process and we reject the proposal tomorrow without giving a clear direction on how it should be done. and that, as far as i'm concerned, is a missed opportunity. it turned out that almost all the parties were dissatisfied. some thought the proposal went too far, others thought it did not go far enough. but we'd have to decide that. the commission will then have a clear guide when it makes a new proposal to implement the international convention. i cannot, of course, fail to say a few words about the musk rats. of course the dutch dikes must be protected. we cannot promote animal welfare at the expense of our safety. but i am not in favour of drowning traps and i would like to call for a reflection on the catching and the method of catching muskrats. in any case, i believe that the following conditions for the use of drowning cases are essential. first of all, there must be a pest and therefore damage to the dikes. the damage is obvious in a number of places in the netherlands, in friesland, in south holland, but in brabant the damage is much less obvious. the second condition is that prevention is not effective or possible and the third condition is that the drowning trap is used only if no more animal-friendly alternatives are available. europe will not be able to present a workable directive in the short term, and that is disappointing, but it is not the end of the debate. and that, as far as i'm concerned, doesn't have to mean the painful end of the muskrats. for the time being, it is up to the member states themselves to make this work. so work on alternatives and minimize animal suffering. the rejection of this directive should not be an excuse for not starting the debate in the netherlands on the control of muskrats, and in that respect i have to thank karin scheele, who has started a huge debate in the netherlands that we would not have had without her amendment. so let us turn the present situation in a positive direction, take the opportunity which the european parliament has so far missed and make prevention a priority. develop the necessary alternatives and the netherlands can make an important contribution to a new legislative proposal.
the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. i think she has shown convincingly that this is an example of bad regulation. for example, the setting of standards for traps has not been preceded by sound scientific research. there are criteria for traps and trapping testing, and they are random. of course, the duration of animal suffering is very difficult to measure. when does stress kick in and when does the death struggle begin? moreover, especially in the case of live trapping, the proposal does not say anything about the humanity of the alternative methods that might then be used to kill animals. animals are often drowned in other ways or are killed by being strangled or killed by each other. there is an inconsistency between this proposal and the habitats directive. certain species protected under the habitats directive - i am thinking of the explicit prohibition on the capture and killing of wild otters, beavers, wolves and lynxes, for example - are also listed in the annex to the proposal on humane fishing methods. how does that rhyme with "i'm sorry"? and other animals covered by this proposal, for example the marten and the badger, are also protected or conserved in certain areas. the directive - and i cannot help but say something about it - has a characteristic dutch security problem: the protection of low-lying land against flooding by dike breaches. the muskrats' way of life undermines dikes, posing a real threat to public safety and health. the animal is an alien species in the netherlands which must of course be controlled in the most humane way, but at the moment there is no useful humane method of control which is as effective as control by means of the drowning trap. a ban on the drowning trap - and i can imagine that the proposal will at some point return to such a ban - makes effective control of muskrats impossible. the dutch security and public health are at stake. we must also look for more humane methods of fishing for musk rats, but until suitable alternatives are found, i think that a clear exceptional position for the netherlands or for a situation where safety is at stake would be good. mr president, a final comment of a more general nature. we are doing a little bit of animal protection à la carte in the european union. there is a lot going on in the field of, for example, reducing animal testing, think of the cosmetics directive or reach we are talking about now. we're doing something on international animal shipping. it's all very important, but it's also very random. the question is what europe would like to do or should do in the field of animal protection. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. it would be good if both we in this parliament and the union were to start thinking about what we actually want to do and what we do not want to do in the field of animal protection, instead of doing something here and there à la carte about protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. firstly, i believe that this directive would make it impossible to control effectively pests in certain member states, in particular the muskrats in the netherlands. that could have major consequences for public safety. and as long as there is no exception to this in the proposal, i cannot support it. commissioner dimas, you have expressed your understanding of the concerns of many organisations. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the concern of the netherlands for the safety of the citizens when dikes are being undermined by the excavation of the musk deer. my second argument for rejection concerns the legal basis. protocol 33 to the ec treaty gives the eu competence in the field of animal welfare only when this is done in the context of agricultural, transport, internal market or research policies. the proposal for a directive is the implementation of the international agreement on humane fishing practices concluded under the common commercial policy. since the proposal harmonises the standards of the member states for animal cases in the internal market and does not serve a direct environmental objective, only article 95 can be considered as the appropriate legal basis for this proposal. i would like to hear commissioner dimas's reaction to this.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, it is unfortunate that at this late hour we are still debating a number of issues which are actually very important and certainly very urgent, particularly when we are talking about the problems of the non-proliferation drive and the non-proliferation treaty. that is why i regret that the presidency is not here tonight, particularly because the current president of the european union is also a recognized nuclear power. but perhaps it can be conveyed that the presence of the presidency is very much desirable in such debates. action to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is again very urgent in the recent period. the number of states possessing nuclear weapons seems to be growing, and that is a bad example for other countries, and at the same time - as the commissioner has already said - the risk that terrorists will get their hands on weapons of mass destruction or nuclear material is considered to be real. a strengthening of the international framework to address these risks is urgently needed. but right now we are seeing a tendency to take disarmament issues outside of international frameworks. the international community, including europe, has failed this year to amend, renew and strengthen the non-proliferation treaty, while the united states is increasingly trying to pursue its own disarmament policy, particularly in the field of nuclear non-proliferation. both are very damaging to the credibility and effectiveness of the global non-proliferation regime which remains an essential pillar of our policy. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we counter that trend and gain a stronger grip on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, but also of nuclear technology and nuclear chemical and biological material; the same is true of the export of conventional arms. the european union will have to lead the way when it comes to the future of the non-proliferation treaty, but it is also doing a good job on many other points such as the recent proposal, the recent lobbying for an international arms export treaty. at the same time, there are more contradictions, contradictions in the international regime, which also involve european countries. the recognized nuclear powers of the world have an extra responsibility. they are the ones who put the most pressure on countries that want to break out of the international system, and at the same time they are considering the modernization of their nuclear arsenal, and one of them even refuses to support the ban on nuclear tests. on the one hand, europe is one of the driving forces - that is another contradiction - behind the international non-proliferation regime. it is one of the absolute priorities of the european security strategy: the european union is leading the search for a peaceful solution to the iranian problem; at the same time, we are spending far less than the americans on cleaning up old nuclear arsenals. the report by mr kristovskis rightly calls for the political priority to be supported with adequate resources. finally, the pse group is very much attached to the international legal order. we have had a long debate in the commission on the paragraphs in the kristovskis report on the use of force to prevent non-proliferation, the proliferation of nuclear weapons. we still feel that the passage in the report does not do justice to our view of the international legal order and the role of the united nations in it. if those paragraphs remain as they are and if parliament decides to support that passage tomorrow, i do not exclude that our group will abstain in the final vote on this report.
mr president, i have the feeling that there are still a lot of people waiting to sign, so i think it is good that we wait a minute or two more and in that one minute that we are waiting i would like to say the following: the main entrance to this parliament has been closed for two months. i think that's what led to me falling down pretty hard myself and breaking something. i would ask you to instruct the appropriate department to ensure that the situation there is at least made safe again. we want to be safe with chemicals, the same should apply when it comes to the safety of the people here.
i have noted that we have won on the point of registration, which is where most of the bureaucracy is. i have also noted, mr president, that we have lost on the issue of licensing, authorization, partly because the liberals did not help. i am sorry to say that, mr president, but i know that the british presidency will be very helpful to us in this respect. i also know, mr president, that because of the small majorities, the slim majorities, we have lost at least the most important subjects by only a dozen votes. i also know, mr president, that this parliament will at any rate, at second reading, undo all the omissions which have now been adopted. i therefore advise our group, mr president, to vote in favour with a big gesture.
president. - my group will also reject this compromise by a large majority. we think that the registration procedure is not well regulated in the environmental field, and that a compromise has been reached on a number of other points, but with a small majority, so we are afraid that this is not a good proposal and that is why we will vote against it.
mr president, i should like to ask before the final vote whether we adopted this oral amendment by the rapporteur, otherwise we have to abstain. i do not think we voted on the oral amendment.
in writing. there should be no secrecy or ambiguity about the composition and toxicity of chemical substances. for months, a number of chemical companies have tried to torpedo a measure that has long been necessary for the environment and public health. today it has become clear that a strong 'reach' as advocated by the united left and the green group will not win a majority here. on the other hand, many proposals from christian democrats and conservatives, who were fully in favour of the wishes of the chemical industry, were also rejected here. only those proposals on which the social democrats and the liberals agreed were given a majority. this means a weakened version of 'reach' where registration is eroded and only a positive result is achieved in respect of the licences. we share the majority view of our group that such a weak option is better than nothing. now that the epp and uen groups here say that they can still vote in favour because the council and the necessary qualified majority in this parliament will ensure that the provisions on licences will not survive a second reading, that is the reason for the two members of the socialist party in the netherlands to vote against.
in writing. in my country, the netherlands, there has been a long-standing struggle against the american imported muskrats, which are undermining our dikes and threatening to make low-lying areas uninhabitable for humans. we are, however, supporting the rapporteur, mr scheele, who proposes a general rejection of this proposal on the humane trapping of certain species. humaan means both "human" and "decent". people have taken on the most terrible things over the course of time, things that may have been human but certainly not decent. the european commission's proposal considers amputations, eye injuries, spinal cord injuries and a five-minute death struggle as humane. since 1995, trapping has been prohibited throughout the european union and there is a ban on the import of animal skins from countries where trapping is not prohibited. in 1996 a proposal was already ready for stricter requirements for the other cases. a lobby of trappers then managed to sideline the experts. then an agreement was reached with the united states, canada, and russia, which was more concerned with avoiding trade conflicts than with improving animal welfare. this proposal is based on that wrong agreement, which the european parliament has already objected to.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, as regards the postponement, i am not in favour of it as rapporteur. we in parliament, with the consensus of all the groups, have set a timetable for whatever reason and one of the factors was that the council is meeting next week on this and we wanted to give our input on time, and not when everything was already decided and discussed. i think that is unworthy of parliament, so if we now postpone the debate and if we now also postpone the vote, you are not taking your work as a parliament seriously. moreover, i do not think that the final vote will change anything, since the lists of votes have already been drawn up, so why not both the debate and the vote today. i agree with you that the timetable does not deserve a beauty award. i would also have preferred - but again, the majority of the groups could not get it - that we had voted this morning with a full house, than we would have had the majorities with a full parliament. i think it's too late now, it's been postponed three times; we have agreed on the timetable, which is why it seems to me most important to close the case now, with debate and with a vote.
the commission proposes a long-term strategy for achieving the millennium development goals in africa by 2015. this can only be applauded. a very ambitious planning is needed to achieve the millennium development goals and especially to get sub-saharan africa on track. the question now is, will the proposed strategy make the maximum contribution to that? the strategy describes the problems well and clearly. i share the cautious optimism about the development of the african union and nepad. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. if africans do not take their destiny into their own hands and take responsibility for further development, then any strategy is doomed to failure. president. - the european union is the largest donor in the world. for years europe has given money and aid, and yet poverty is greater now than before. a new strategy is needed, and unfortunately the document does not yet convince me that this is a real change. what's it missing? the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commissioner is right to say that we must provide more, better and faster aid. we cannot achieve this by simply giving more money, even if it is a few billion more. it is great that europe wants to free up more money and that the commission wants to hold member states to their financial commitments, but more is needed. i am thinking first of all of what we can do in our own policies, the three cs of coordination, coherence and complementarity. if they do not increase, the chances of more effective aid are considerably reduced. much will ultimately depend on the political will of the member states. i hope that the commission will find an effective strategy to promote it. secondly, mr president, the commission recognizes the great differences between african countries. the various situations and problems are clearly articulated, but there is no clear corresponding instrument to deal with the differences. we believe that a clear distinction should be made between aid to stable countries and aid to countries which are socially and economically unstable because of bad governance, corruption and mismanagement. the commission proposes that under certain conditions stable countries may even be helped by budgetary and sectoral aid, but that unstable countries also deserve support. we can't let the people down there. we are not calling for support through governments in those countries, but for support through civil society organisations, including, of course, the involvement of religious communities. they reach many people and can do a good job in health, education and other basic services. thirdly, mr president, the commission proposes that the efforts for africa should now be directed along three lines. the first line is to promote safety and good governance, which is important. the second line is that of economy and trade, providing a better investment climate, also important. only the third leg of the action plan addresses poverty reduction through the millennium development goals, such as promoting basic health care, improving education, protecting the environment and striving for jobs for as many people as possible. we believe that the latter, the millennium development goals, should be the focus. combating poverty at the grassroots level is of the utmost importance in achieving the structural stability needed for further development. we therefore believe that all policies must be an instrument for achieving the millennium development goals. that is why we consider that major infrastructure projects in africa or exchanges of partner cities and universities in the european union and africa are premature. valuable projects in themselves, but more for a later stage. finally, mr president, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this report, both inside and outside the ep, for their input. i look back on a pleasant and constructive cooperation.
author. president, the philippine moratorium on the death penalty of march 2000 has been reversed in the last three years. the current government is seeking to increase the number of death sentences, including for minors who cannot be sentenced to death under the law and who cannot be executed. in an effort to kill as many people as possible, victims are isolated, tortured and denied access to justice. the inability of the philippine government to stop the crime and the insurgency does not justify the use of such barbaric means. among the many filipino nationals who are victims of this is a man who also holds spanish nationality, francisco larrañaga. he has been accused of very serious crimes, but this does not justify a sham trial which ignores his alibi, nor the imposition of the death penalty, nor the exclusion of the possibility of reversing that conviction. this dual nationality does contribute to the attention paid to this misdemeanour in europe. even if no european citizen's life is in danger, everything must be done to end the death penalty everywhere in the world.
author. mr president, burma has made a reasonable start as an independent state shortly after the second world war. the main problem was that the inland population had different languages and cultures from the coastal population and that the indigenous peoples wanted to have as much autonomy as possible. the failure to comply with them, the failure to give them sufficient consideration, has led to violent conflicts. these conflicts gave the army the opportunity to become more powerful and more independent. eventually, this army took over all state power and also a large part of the economy. it is a mysterious kind of dictatorship, without ideological objectives, which could make it more popular with certain sections of the population. within that dictatorship, there is constant strife, with leaders being deposed and even imprisoned. there are also conflicting economic interests within the leading group in mining, tropical forest clearing and opium production. the tactics against the democratic opposition also vary. the only time free elections were allowed, the result was subsequently annulled because the vast majority had voted for the opposition. regime change seems so far almost impossible. for years, foreign companies have profited from this dictatorship. burma can supply cheap raw materials because the people are more or less enslaved and nature and the environment are not protected. under the influence of international protests by various movements, these economic contacts have been greatly reduced, but they have not disappeared. only continued and reinforced isolation can bring about change in the long run. it is good that the proposed resolution calls for a ban on all companies registered in the european union investing in or lending to burma. only in this way can we help to put an end to rape and looting by government forces, to forced labour, to forced displacement, to political prisoners and to the exclusion of citizens from the administration.
- i'm the reporter. i am in favour of continuing the vote for the following reasons: we knew we were going to be pressed for time. it is an express request from all the groups in the committee on development and cooperation to complete the vote so that the council can take our position next week. if we do not vote now, everything will have happened with africa; of course, the discussions will continue, but this point will be over. of course it is not ideal that we should vote now and not this afternoon, for example, that is a different timetable, but as it is, i am in favour of continuing the vote to take ourselves seriously as a parliament.
mr. chairman, there's a lot at stake in hong kong. first of all, the wto itself. the next failure will be a major weakening of the multilateral world trade organization, resulting in flourishing bilateral agreements. the developing countries will also be among the losers. the doha round would be a development round with a view to poverty and backwardness in the third world. a fiasco in hong kong will not ultimately result in much needed market access for the poorest developing countries and the small farmers in these countries. the eu also has no interest in a failed ministerial conference. europe wants a good system of market access for its industry and services. i call on commissioner mandelson to make every effort to bring a compromise within reach. but for this to happen, the other major blocs, such as the united states and brazil, will also have to act. all negotiators must show the political will to make progress in hong kong. after all, a failed trade round only has losers.
mr president, i am surprised at the noise in this debate, particularly on the left side of the chamber. i am told that the agricultural policy must be further liberalized and that europe must give away much more. but at the same time, it was the parties, particularly when i look at the green group and also partly the socialist group, that took the lead when it came to animal welfare, environmental and some other demands on european agriculture, to impose additional demands. everything has a price and it has nothing to do with fair trade; if you do that, a high european standard in the field of food safety, the environment and animal welfare and then say "we'll just open the borders", and "we call that free trade" under very different conditions, that has nothing to do with fair free trade. it is important to note in this parliament that 80% of food exports from africa are currently going to the european union. how is it that europe does nothing for the developing countries? what do you mean, "no"? the same applies to the british presidency. it will not be the case in these negotiations that the british agenda, again reform of european agriculture, becomes the agenda for the negotiations in hong kong. in 2003 we received a major reform programme for european agriculture. that's as far as it goes. we have done more than any trading bloc in the world and i also expect a british negotiator, mr mandelson, to stand for the european continent and also stand for those reforms, for those decisions that have been taken and not one step further. and that it ensures that world trade, including in the field of agriculture, is conducted in a fair way, in a fair way and under fair conditions. that's what you'd expect from a negotiator. it is therefore better to have no agreement than a bad one.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on 3 february 2005 the parliamentary immunity of sam rainsy and two of his party members, chea poch and cheam channy, was waived in cambodia. sam rainsy has since been living in exile in france and chea poch has also fled the country. cheam channy was arrested the same day by the military police. but not only politicians, but also journalists, trade union leaders and other members of civil society have been arrested recently, and this is a sign of a deterioration in the situation of civil and political freedoms in that country. i call on the commission and the council to continue to keep the situation surrounding the members of sam rainsy's party under review by the cambodian authorities. a country in which an opposition party is obstructed in this way must be held accountable. but i would also urge the commission and the council to launch an independent inquiry into the implementation of the paris agreement. next year marks 15 years since the paris agreement ended a political conflict in cambodia. it provided for a constitution which enshrined basic principles such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement also called for effective measures to prevent the policies and practices of the past from ever returning to the country. in vietnam, mr president, there are positive reports of economic progress in that country, and we should welcome that. it is also positive that vietnam has hosted an eu seminar on the death penalty in november 2004. however, at least 82 people were executed and 115 sentenced to death in 2004, and the actual figures are likely to be higher, as vietnam considers statistical data on the death penalty to be a state secret. in 2005, 24 actual executions were reported so far, while 78 people were sentenced to death. i would also like to mention the persecution of the unified buddhist church of vietnam, in which my colleague from the group of the european people's party, mr marco pannella, is involved. i call on the commission and the council to urge the vietnamese authorities to abolish the death penalty altogether, but in any event, in advance of that, the european union should urge the cessation of executions and the reduction of the number of crimes for which the death penalty can be imposed. in laos, although no executions have been reported in the last 11 years, the death penalty is still in force and at least 7 people, including a woman, were sentenced to death in 2005. in general, mr president, i would ask the council to include human rights in the broader context of relations between europe and the asean countries. we have, of course, much more than human rights relations with the asean countries. there are economic relations, there are political relations, we fight together terrorism, drug trafficking, there are scientific exchanges, all kinds of other things. i think we should do more with asean, not less. it is a turning point for us in our relations with asia, including the rise of countries like china and india. but human rights must be an integral part of that. i am glad that the commission and the council have also stressed this and we must continue to do so. and as far as i am concerned, i would like to see all the support for the policy of my group.
author. president, 2005 is the united nations international year of sport and physical education. the year is also intended as an incentive to create conditions for more and better sport projects in developing countries. countries, as well as ngos, sports organisations and businesses, are encouraged to do more in the context of development cooperation and sport. the un is convinced that sport can make an important contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. mr president, this is the first time that this subject has been on our agenda. development cooperation and sport, and that's good. sport brings together people of different races, classes, educational levels and cultures. sport can make a positive contribution to important issues such as social cohesion, team spirit, health, intercultural dialogue, etc. it is also an ideal means of reaching out to weaker groups in society, such as the disabled and children. for traumatized children, for example, child soldiers, this is proving to be a great tool for trauma processing and reintegration. that is why sport can play a vital role in development. it is good for individuals engaged in wholesome activities as well as for communities, as it can contribute to better relationships between different groups. major organizations, such as unicef or olympic committees in various countries, but also governments of countries such as norway, canada, the united kingdom and the netherlands, international sports bodies such as fifa, have projects in this field. in the netherlands, not only the government is active, but also ngos, such as the nks, have been working for years in developing countries with sports projects. these projects have proved to be very successful and have cost relatively little. they're low-cost, high-impact projects. for example, in the fields of education and health care, and also in the prevention of hiv/aids, there are interesting examples. the position of women deserves special attention when it comes to development and sport. women are often hindered in many ways in their sports activities, for example by dress codes or by restrictions on their freedom to leave the house. mr president, the practice of sport should be a right for everyone. i therefore welcome the oral amendment which is being prepared on this point, to emphasize this point once again. the question to the commission and the council, mr president, is to raise awareness in europe of the opportunities that sport can offer in the field of development cooperation. i would like to hear from the commission about the experience that the commission itself has with programmes in this field, whether the commission can and will contribute to raising awareness of the possibilities and to interest member states in encouraging projects in this field, for example by sports organisations ngos in their country. perhaps the commission could even consider setting aside a certain budget for this purpose. in any case, i very much hope that this united nations year of development cooperation and sport will also provide opportunities to do more on this point of development cooperation.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world of sport. think of honduras, for example. sport - at the same time - also fraternises: think of north and south korea in one olympic team. sport helps societies to heal their wounds: think of the hutu and tutsi football teams in rwanda. sport can be a sporting way to express rivalry between nations without becoming rude or expressing violence: just think of the netherlands and germany. but sport is also a tough business, and children are taken from developing countries and tried out on the field as child slaves in the big european clubs, and if they don't comply, we find them left in the lurch without visas or money in the belgian forests. 2005 is the year of sport and i therefore call on the council and the commission, on behalf of the european union, to use the un year of sport and development to make much stronger and clearer commitments to prohibit the recruitment and abuse of very young footballers. this can only be done by long-term training and a visa requirement for the club which takes responsibility and at the same time does not use the children as their property but gets a fair reward. the same action can be taken by the commission against racism on the european fields. here too, a european level playing field with european agreements between european clubs is close at hand. you are no doubt familiar, commissioner, with the fair network and all the good work they do and the support you give to it. i am not in favour of this, just as we have set the framework for european development policy with priorities for the millennium goals and good governance and, as the council has just clearly said, of putting another - in this case a un christmas ball - on the aid tree. the wrong reflex at the wrong level. it's a great time to connect games and sports in education with developing countries. it is good that some member states are actively driving this sports car. i am not saying that we should not respect subsidiarity, but that the eu should instead concentrate, through the commissioner for sport, on some agreements with european sports clubs, such as uefa, to ban young football players and crack down on racism on european football fields. such a coherent policy is better than fragmentation of development policy.
the rapporteur for the opinion on the budges. mr president, if there is one country in the european union that knows what avian influenza is, i think it is the netherlands. i am encouraged by the commissioner's statements. i think they learned a lot from it. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr parish and mrs figueiredo, for the great work they have done. the committee on budgets is of course concerned mainly with the financial aspects, but that has not prevented the committee on budgets from speaking mainly in favour of the first possible option in the event of the difficult situation of going back to vaccination as a first step. the committee on budgets has tabled two amendments to the studies for the 2006 budget this year: developing better vaccines and testing methods and investigating the role of migratory birds in the spread of avian influenza. we hope that the commission will start these studies as soon as possible and not at the end of the year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there will certainly be - and we will not hope for it, but it is to be expected - another outbreak of a contagious disease, whether it be avian influenza or foot-and-mouth disease or whatever. in that case, the european budget will have to be called upon. the question is, is the money there? the money may not be there. we therefore feel it is urgent that the commission should continue its study of the possibility of a european animal health fund. the second point for the committee on budgets: at present, half of the fees come from the european budget, the other half from the member states. the way in which the other 50% is presented varies from country to country. in one country the farmers pay, in another they do not. we believe that this is an unequal competitive position and the commission should also look into this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i will at least be on time. i would like to thank both rapporteurs, but i notice that they are not here. this also indicates that the way parliament works needs to be improved. if we are to have a debate, let me have it all and not interrupt it. but unfortunately, it's not any different. the report by mr figueiredo, and in particular the cost and prevention of the control of animal diseases, which the committee on agriculture has approved, can broadly support the ppe-de group. we need to have better prevention, more control, but much more importantly - much more effectively - the vaccine as a control and as a prevention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am in favour of a line of 50% commission/50% member states, but of the 50% of member states it must gradually become clear who is paying them, the member state or, as in some other member states, the farmers, it is clear that these differences are not really acceptable. i welcome the parish report on a number of points. i am glad that the amendment has been adopted by us and by my colleague mr berman, which indicates that in the event of a serious threat of avian influenza, the vaccine can be used preventively without affecting the market position. i would like to emphasize this point, also to the commissioner, without this affecting the market position. my group is also very pleased about this, because it is essential that we use resources more effectively in the fight against animal diseases. in fact, the non-vaccination policy has had its longest run in a world where markets are becoming more open, where people are travelling, it is no longer the time to be unable to use vaccination effectively and certainly not that the use of vaccination leads to restrictions on the market of products. it is essential that we take that road in europe. that is the only answer to combating animal diseases as much as possible and as effectively as possible worldwide. i see that my colleague mrs figueiredo is here, and i thank her again for her contribution to the report and i will thank mrs parish personally.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of avian influenza. but the eu also needs to focus much more on the source in south east asia. a number of member states have set up good bilateral projects in this area, and fao is playing a coordinating role. the commission should support this by providing financial support for eu member states' initiatives in south-east asian countries and leave the coordination to the fao. that's the most efficient way. many thousands of people in vietnam, thailand, indonesia and other countries have been exposed to the virus, and of course many of them have developed antibodies. but there's no record of that. the commission can and should co-finance this research. but more can also happen within the eu. monitoring of waterfowl is still far too little done and yet it is essential, because the low pathogenic virus is much more widespread than thought. this is not new or unusual, but accurate monitoring is essential. in short: support bilateral initiatives by member states in south-east asia, fund research, support fao coordination and organise more monitoring at european level. finally, mr president, the european parliament should set up a temporary committee on avian influenza, as was done with bse.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). medicines that are available to us but too expensive for them. developing drugs costs money. the average cost of bringing a medicine to market is between eur 600 and 900 million. companies are rightly compensated for this through patent fees. it does, however, make medicine expensive. the directive we are discussing is designed to ensure that people in the poorest countries also have access to the medicines they need, namely that poor countries can produce medicines at prices that are affordable to them in special cases and under certain conditions. and that's good. but we must not let industry lose interest in developing medicines. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that the scheme cannot be abused, for example by reimporting into the eu. the scheme is aimed at health promotion and not trade. we therefore think that the reason for the compulsory licence application should be clearly stated, which patent is concerned, that the medicinal product in question should have a different shape, colour and packaging where possible and that accounting should be kept of the volume of production. the trips patent system has been in existence for a long time. it has never been used, as far as we know. but it's important, though. it can encourage patent holders to come up with solutions quickly and on good terms for emergencies in developing countries. of course, this arrangement does not completely solve the drug problems in developing countries. roads, refrigerated transportation, adequate medical personnel, etc., are also needed. it is, however, an important complement to the aid in special emergencies. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr van hecke, on the outcome of the negotiations with the council and the commission. i am glad that there is a compromise and i hope that it will be accepted by parliament tomorrow.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: i am very happy with what commissioner frattini has done. i also very much agree with the document produced by the commission and i would like to thank the commission for that too. in the document setting out the effects of the judgment of 13 december 2005. i share the view of mrs roure and the commission that this is not just an environmental issue, but that it has implications in many other areas. the commission has produced a list of decisions which need to be adjusted - i will say a few words about that in a moment - but there is also an important decision on the way. we have also spoken about this on many occasions, for example the decision on data retention. the commission knows that parliament attaches great importance to the fact that the enormous amount of data which will then probably be collected will be used for a limited purpose. and am i correct in concluding from the judgment that we can legally impose a fine if the data is going to be misused? and of course it is a matter of political will that we have to reach such a decision, but is it legally possible and would then legally apply that fine, not only to the providers but also to the government. the other point, mr president, is therefore the transposition of that list so that it is all legally sound. i do share the commission's view that we should not start a codecision procedure again for everything, that we should adapt it somewhat pragmatically, but i do have a reservation, because sometimes there are still matters such as facilitating unauthorized entry, which i know my group had a very difficult time dealing with. there are people who help others to enter the territory of the union because they think they really need political asylum. i think that a distinction should be made between people who help others for financial gain and others who do so for genuine idealistic motives. i have a reservation about whether we will really be able to adjust everything easily, but i do share the view that we should probably not start a codecision procedure all over again on the bulk of the proposals. i would like to take advantage of the fact that i am not yet finished with my work to add a small personal question: article 13 - that is the old existing anti-discrimination directives - does allow member states to impose fines themselves if they consider it proportionate and effective. is it not possible to make a proposal at some point, to do so at european level, to make it clear that we really think this is so important for civil rights, that we actually think from europe that when discrimination is committed, there is also a financial sanction.
the rapporteur has succeeded in finding a majority for her report in the committee on transport. although a majority, it was remarkable how many members abstained there (20 in favour, 7 against and 19 abstentions). it is not necessary to explain that i was very disappointed about this. i therefore disagree with the previous speakers. article 81 of the treaty states that market distorting cartels are incompatible with community law. however, paragraph 3 of the same article sets out a number of exceptions which must be met in order to allow such partnerships. on this basis, liner shipping is covered by a block exemption under regulation 4056/1986. the commission has ordered an investigation into the extent to which this block exemption is still allowed in 2005. are the conditions of article 81 (3) still met? the commission has concluded that this is not the case and therefore intends to review the rules. the alde group supports the commission in this (see, for example, amendment no 10). the rapporteur points out in paragraph 9 that the four cumulative conditions of article 81 (3) are only partially met. at the same time, the rapporteur is working to maintain a partnership. this raises a number of questions, to say the least. if it is only partially fulfilled, then we can say quite clearly that it is not fulfilled. the four conditions are really cumulative. my colleagues from the ppe-de and pse were concerned about the consequences of a possible review for the shipping companies in the sme sector. which companies should they be? pino nedlloyd, hapag lloyd, apl, myk, and so on and so forth? i think that this kind of company is a bit far-fetched to put under smes. the commission nevertheless responded to this request and commissioned a study to clarify, among other things, the impact on the so-called smaller companies. now, that study has been published, and what is the conclusion? the repeal of the regulation will result in lower transport prices, better service and no adverse impact on smaller shipping companies. this is logical, because the sme sector is mainly on the side of the consumers, the shippers. however, as amendment no 17 shows, both the ppe-de and the pse are still not convinced. i would ask my colleagues to look again at the text of paragraph 1. the aim of the revision, according to the text before us, is to preserve and develop the european liner shipping industry within the framework of the lisbon strategy. fellas, this seems to be a misunderstanding. the aim of this review, as well as the lisbon strategy, is to create a competitive environment in which the sector operates as efficiently and effectively as possible. the aim has never been to protect an industry on the basis of improper arguments. finally, i would ask my colleagues once again to look carefully at my amendments which i have tabled with the greens (1 to 14). maybe against my better judgment, but still. the commission really deserves more support in this area than it is getting. finally, unlike the rapporteur, mrs kratsa, i wholeheartedly support the conclusions of commissioner mccreevy.
on behalf of the pse group president. - i was the one who applauded because i was in full agreement with what mrs thyssen said. i should also like to begin by paying tribute to the rapporteur, mr becsey, who has been struggling through this difficult subject and has now become our specialist in the field of vat in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we support his report and what others have said about vat refunds. it is very important that this should be done more quickly and more easily for companies operating across borders, otherwise the single market in europe will be a farce. the other report relates to the oral question we have tabled and the deadlines within which certain matters must be settled. i fully agree with what mrs thyssen said, namely that it is ridiculous that there is still uncertainty, especially in the labour-intensive services sectors, one month ahead of time. they still don't know what they're in for. the commissioner is not to blame here, it is the council that is being called upon as a legal person and failing to adopt a regulation. here's a man who supports these labor-intensive services. i would prefer to see them included in annex h, in that structural solution. i hope that our appeal here in this parliament will be the final step in ensuring that at least some arrangement is made and that time is created for that discussion next year. i am in favour of having a much wider discussion. i think that the whole debate on the shift from indirect to direct taxation, which your prime minister, mr verhofstadt, has also mentioned very explicitly, has everything to do with the way we deal structurally with those vat rates. i am therefore, like mr becsey, opposed to the formulation of a maximum rate for this temporary period and i am in favour of structuring the possibility of using these low rates. if you want to shift from direct to indirect taxation, which can indeed be very profitable, then you also need to differentiate the rates. low rates for social reasons, for employment reasons, to regularize and prevent undeclared work: those are all elements that you have to include. and you may also have to be able to afford higher rates for certain luxury or environmental polluting factors. i think that structural discussion really needs to be held next year and i hope that this commissioner can give a boost to that. i hope that the member states will not hide behind the unanimity rule and the possibility they have of blocking and making deals. i think that is not good governance and not good legislation, as mrs berès has said.
the report on batteries and accumulators was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection considers that the 41 amendments to this report improve the council's common position. however, in the committee on the environment we have not yet reached agreement on one important aspect, namely the reduction of the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead in some of the batteries. parliament has made its position clear on this at first reading. after the first reading, there have obviously been objections, or perhaps i should say it differently: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market for batteries is not distorted. in order to try to reach an agreement, i have tabled a modified proposal for the plenary, namely amendment no 42. this is a weakening of the amendment adopted at first reading. the restriction of the prohibition on heavy metals covers three points. firstly, amendment no 42 restricts the cadmium ban to portable batteries. industrial batteries are thus excluded from the cadmium ban. the exemption granted to industrial batteries at first reading was not enough for industry, which felt that this would put them too much in the danger zone. just so we 're clear , my amendment no 42 has removed industrial batteries from the danger zone altogether. secondly, amendment no 42 also restricts the ban on lead to portable batteries, so that industrial lead-acid batteries are also completely excluded from the ban. thirdly, certain categories of portable batteries are exempted from the lead ban. this applies to node cells, and the batteries for hearing aids are no longer in danger. so we have listened to the comments of the foundation for the deaf and hard of hearing. fourthly, the cadmium ban on portable tools is postponed for four years. therefore, there is still sufficient time to switch entirely to li-ion and nimh batteries as alternatives to nicd batteries. these alternatives have been widely available for almost 10 years. i have seen that both the socialists and the greens have tabled a similar amendment to article 4. i can also support these amendments in general terms. finally, mr president, i would like to say a few words on three other points, namely definitions, producer responsibility and batteries integrated into appliances. as for the definitions, i think they should be included in an article and not in a recital. i therefore oppose amendments nos 46, 48 and 50. the council's common position retains subjective elements in the definition of portable batteries. the words 'can be carried by hand' are subjective and the environment committee therefore prefers a definition which includes a clear boundary. in amendment no 12 this is a limit of 1 kg, so these are portable batteries. in addition, amendment no 12 links it to consumer applications as defined in the directive on electronic waste. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment. the committee on the environment feels that amendments nos 12 and 13 provide the greatest clarity on these definitions. as far as producer responsibility is concerned, i should point out that this is a guiding principle for several other directives and now also for the battery directive. i agree with the council's common position on this. amendment no 44 proposes a shared responsibility. this is very confusing in practice and very complex in implementation. i believe that we must maintain producer responsibility and therefore oppose amendment no 44. amendments nos 18 and 40 prohibit the integration of batteries and require that they be easy to remove. on the surface, this seems like a good thing. however, i understand that this will cause problems for many applications, especially if the battery has a longer life than the device. moreover, this provision is unnecessary, since the directive on electronic waste contains the obligation that batteries should always be removed from collected electrical equipment. mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i recommend that the plenary vote tomorrow on the amendments to the report, taking account of my comments.
mr president, as has already been said, the mifid (markets in financial instruments directive), formerly the isd (investment services directive), is a major legislative programme for the internal market in capital. the aim is to create a level playing field for different types of investment services, with a focus on increasing transparency before and after the investment, consumer protection and the promotion of competitive prices with the greatest possible liquidity. in europe, these instruments can be a major step towards a better investment climate, and we can use them well at the moment. the complexity of the directive requires careful consultation with the various market players. a large part of that work is carried out by the supervisors, under the direction of the committee of european securities regulators (cesr). the european commission cannot do this alone with its limited manpower. i am very much in favour of this careful approach and this important role for the supervisors. they are our main ally in serving the public interest and in avoiding being guided by the partial interests of certain large market players or certain national markets, which unfortunately was still the case when this dossier was being prepared. the european parliament has found a balance between these different interests and it is now up to it to ensure that this balance is maintained. this means that we must be able to continue to play our part. that is why we are demanding an important right in the context of monitoring comitology, namely the so-called right of revocation. the commission has repeatedly stated that it would support us in this, and the council has done so with a certain degree of reluctance, but it has not succeeded in correcting this point in the treaty in the context of the discussion on this subject. but now that things are quiet, there is no reason to put that point on ice either. the so-called lamfallussy procedure is applied to an increasing number of cases in the field of financial markets and it is therefore very necessary to structure the european parliament's right of revocation. this is not a prestige project or a prestige battle, we are really concerned with remaining involved in what we outlined at level 1 and now want to see reflected in the implementation we have delegated.
for more than two years, the european parliament has been receiving tens of thousands of petitions from european citizens, many of them dutch, about the abuse of a law on urbanisation projects (lrau) in the valencia region. the law allows developers to unlawfully take land from homeowners for no or little compensation, and then turn it over to pay for the cost of roads, sewerage and street lighting. fortunately, parliament has taken up this problem and tomorrow we shall be voting on the report by mr fourtou, a liberal. it urges valencia to improve the law - a process already under way following a visit by a european commission of inquiry - and to set up a procedure for case-by-case assessment of the situation of homeowners, including compensatory measures. i have had contact with dutch people in the region before and i am glad that the urgency of the situation is finally being recognised. it is good that valencia has already begun to revise the law at the insistence of europe, but those words will now have to be translated into action to prevent more owners from being unfairly disadvantaged.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bersani, for his report, but i would also like to thank a number of shadow rapporteurs and colleagues from the alde and ppe-de for the way they have dealt with this dossier. i would also like to join mr garcía-margallo y marfil in saying that i am glad that you are here for this dossier, mr kovács, and not mr mccreevy, who was just here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has always been very difficult in this house, including in the previous period, to reach common positions on this point. i have the impression that we will be able to reach agreement on this now, and i hope that you, mr kovács, will also be able to reach agreement with the council or at least with a large number of member states. i am glad that sobriety on this point takes precedence over the clash of ideological weapons. sobriety also requires that we look at the modest role of the european union in this. i would like to distance myself completely from the remarks that have just been made about brussels taking power away from the member states and such comments. i think it is quite simple to say that in this area it is necessary to guarantee and ensure that the internal market and equal conditions of competition are not distorted, and that simply in order for companies to operate in the european union, simplicity and security must be provided. the call for this common consolidated basis is not without reason coming from the business community: unice, the round table, they're all companies that have asked for this. this has nothing whatsoever to do with seizing power at european level, it is simply meeting the demands of business. i think it's important to look at what the win-win situation might be: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many of the new countries have low rates, but also very broad bases for these taxes, and i think the outcome of this process of harmonizing the tax base will be that the rates will be much closer together than they are at present, and that is the kind of transparency we need. the discussion of what then needs to be done next, including any minimum tariffs or forks or whatever, comes later. it is very important now to take that first step and we support you in that, commissioner kovács.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for all the good work she has done: it was not an easy task. the year of equal opportunities for all is very welcome because fundamental rights are the close to the hearts of the european citizens and they must be made a reality for all citizens. against this backdrop there are two issues i would like to raise. first, there is the budget. i think that everybody in this room will agree that it is embarrassingly insufficient – eur 15 million for fundamental rights! if i compare that to the money we spend on a lot of other things that are less valuable than fundamental rights, i have to say it gives me stomach pains. the second issue is decentralised implementation. that is very good, but i am rather worried about the possibility of cherry-picking by the member states. i am not entirely reassured by all the warm words we have heard in recent years about fundamental rights, because the reality is different and the commissioner himself mentioned that some member states are still lagging behind in the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation. there is still a hierarchy of discrimination and i think that with this programme for the year of equal opportunities for all we should not be encouraging this. i would like to ask the commissioner to commit the commission here and now, publicly and on the record, to ensuring that member states will use the funds available for this year to target all forms of discrimination equally. this is not to say anything about the way the money is distributed, but we want certain – let us say – more ‘awkward’ groups that are currently suffering discrimination – homosexuals, certain reglious groups or the roma, for example – to have equal access to this programme with all the other groups that are suffering discrimination. i am looking forward to a positive answer.
i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the great work they have done. i think that what we have achieved, payment appropriations amounting to 1.01% of gross national income, is particularly important in the light of the negotiations on the financial perspective. it is higher than what luxembourg offered under the luxembourg presidency and it is higher, i thought, than what is now being offered under the british presidency. i agree with many who say that the most important thing parliament has achieved is that we have got an extension of the programmes which concern young people. we have received more money under the flexibility instrument and that is also an important demand of parliament for the next financial perspective. the european union has a long way to go in this area. during the negotiations on this, a strange phenomenon occurred. the council wanted to teach us a lesson in thrift, and almost every hour the appropriations for this policy area increased. i think that the council's budgetary policy is extremely bad on this point. the result is that the amounts proposed are considerably higher than those proposed at first reading. as regards the declaration, this is the third time that we have concluded an agreement with the council on democratic control of the spending of money for the common foreign and security policy. the first two times the council ignored the agreement. we hope that the third time will be successful.
mr president, we had proposed an oral amendment but we will withdraw it now because we are satisfied, for the time being, with the statement of the european commission, yesterday evening, that it is committed to fighting all forms of discrimination in all member states and that it is prepared to urge all member states to allocate the financial resources accordingly. however, we will keep a close eye on the commission and the execution of this programme. we will talk to the commission again, should it not live up to this promise. under that condition, we withdraw the oral amendment.
i have said many times in discussions with colleagues here that the greens also do not consider the right to privacy to be sacrosanct, and that infringements of it can be justified if the measures in question are really necessary, proportionate and effective. it is clear to me that what we need in the fight against terrorism, the fight against organized crime, is more investment in targeted investigations, more investment in analyzing existing data and better cooperation between intelligence and security services. money can only be spent once, even our euro. the money is going to mass surveillance, to big fish, instead of that targeted surveillance, and i think this is really the wrong choice. mr president, i could have supported the increase in telephone traffic and all the arguments that minister clark gave were also about telephone traffic only, so that was easy. but what's the point of going to record how long someone is on the internet and the logon and log-off data. we're in an age where people are often on the computer all day. so this recording is pretty pointless. mr president, we are always talking about better regulation in this house and then you get this nonsense. the cost to the business community has not even been calculated! i should try that, when i am drawing up a proposal on environmental or social policy, not knowing what the consequences are in the least. it wouldn't be possible, but it doesn't seem to be a problem here. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i too, my group, was in favour of trying to get this done quickly, after the first reading of the european parliament, but you have now concluded a deal with the british presidency before parliament had even taken a position. it's either choke or swallow. the small groups were not even informed and the rapporteur on this subject, mr alvaro, was not informed either. then ewa klamt can say: yes, we couldn't reach him, but mr. alvaro has a phone and it would have been nice to inform the person in question. now we have a backroom deal on civil rights, and that's just not good. my group will therefore simply vote against.
president. - mrs klamt said earlier that she could not reach the rapporteur and i can understand her being a little hesitant to pick up the phone or send an e-mail. i am against the compromise of the two major groups and i will therefore support the rapporteur's line. will the proposals on the table make our world safer? no, a large part of it is creating a false sense of security, because the proposals are not proportionate, they are not effective, because they are easy to circumvent, there are insufficient guarantees for the protection of innocent citizens and finally, mr president, there are insufficient guarantees for good cooperation and exchange between member states, because that is the key to an effective policy, and we are still not seeing sufficient results. the council has given its full support to codecision, but, mr clark, codecision is not a favour, it is a democratic right, and the democratic instincts of the council are not very deeply rooted, to say the least. the council is not careful in passing this legislation quickly and is therefore not in line with the better regulation we are always talking about. i must therefore say that i am disappointed to see how the critical attitude of this house has melted like snow in the sun over the last four months. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, at the beginning of october it became known that more than 200 police officers from the rotterdam police force had tried to look into the file of former feyenoord player van persie. the computer wouldn't give the agents access, but it would register their names. big brother is watching you. not just known citizens who are suspects in a criminal case, but police officers as well. that is what concerns me most about this proposal, the misuse of the files by staff of the competent authorities. my principal objection to this proposal is that the long-term retention of data on every citizen is not only an invasion of his privacy but also that he is in fact being treated as a suspect, but without his rights. isn't this cure worse than the disease? it has not been demonstrated that this proposal will have any effect, so i would like to hear a clear voice from the commission and the council on how this directive will be tested and evaluated. the rapporteur, mr alvaro, has done an excellent job and it is unheard of that a deal has been struck between the major groups without any reason. this seriously undermines our way of doing business. i support the rapporteur's line and i would like to end with a quote from george orwell: "some groups are more equal than others".
madam president, i should like to focus on the internet part of this directive. mr clarke, you think that the lack of massive quantities of traffic data is a threat to our security. i disagree. practice shows that it is the lack of online security that offers unlimited opportunities to criminals and terrorists. i will give you a practical example. last month, a group of three criminals who control a network of over 100 000 hacked pcs was rolled up by the dutch police. control over those unsecured pcs gave the criminals the power to perpetrate all kinds of crimes, from massive identity theft, attacks on vital infrastructure and the unlimited opportunity to grant anonymous access to and use of all services of the internet, for whoever was willing to pay. imagine what could happen if these men offered their services to terrorist networks. imagine also how useless traffic data is, because it points at innocent people. the methods used to track these criminals down are specified in the cybercrime treaty, which has been signed by all member states but implemented by only a few. it is those methods that we need to fight terrorism. it is indisputable that this directive is intrusive. it is questionable whether it will help. on the internet side, it is even technically unfeasible. i completely agree with my colleagues mrs in't veld and mr lambrinidis. i fear a false sense of security. i fear that part of this directive could even pose a threat to our security.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it is very important that european rules of the game be quickly established for this internationally active sector. i am therefore very pleased with the agreement reached with the council. the council has worked long and hard to reach a common position, and the position has been preceded by much discussion. there has also been a very intensive debate in parliament. as rapporteur, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in particular for their good cooperation, because it is thanks to that good cooperation and the confidence they have shown in me that i am able to put this agreement before parliament, which has the support of the groups in this parliament. the agreement was not reached without a fight. i remember the rather hectic vote in the transport committee. we have had a very good negotiation with the council, and it was very tense until the very last moment. on behalf of parliament, i would like to thank the british presidency, and in particular mr twigg, for his successful efforts. he has convinced the council that important concessions to parliament were necessary. i would also like to thank commissioner barrot for his constructive contribution to the conclusion of this agreement. with this agreement parliament is making considerable progress on key points from the first reading. i am glad that parliament has taken a realistic approach to this. the agreement, for example, only allows member states to charge infrastructure costs, but not external costs, because there is no clear and transparent calculation model. the agreement does, however, provide for a substantial strengthening of the environmental elements in the directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to vary the toll according to the euro-class from 2010. tolerance variation is a great way of promoting clean road transport. the commission has also proposed that member states be obliged to levy tolls from 3.5 tonnes in 2012, with certain exceptions, to avoid excessive administrative costs and negative environmental impacts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. commissioner barrot, it is very important that we gain a better understanding of that impact before we make a decision. we want to have a positive impact on the environment and on the change in transport modes. i'm getting a lot of mixed signals about this. we must also be aware of the economic importance of the transport sector, which is already suffering from the effects of enlargement and high fuel prices. i would ask you, commissioner barrot, to confirm once again in this house that the commission will indeed come forward with a model and an impact assessment within two years. that is why we are still debating this matter in this parliament. can you also confirm that the commission will come forward with a proposal for the revision of the directive as soon as the report and the model are ready, i.e. within five years? that is also essential. mr president, the proposal makes more statements about the future. i want to highlight two more. firstly, the user must pay, but of course it is not the intention that the user should pay twice. secondly, the money that the user pays should be invested in infrastructure and sustainable transport. parliament has taken a stronger position on this point than it did at first reading. i am glad that the council is taking that firm line. i would like to thank the pse, alde, gue/ngl and uen, who signed this agreement, for their support and i hope that other groups will join in. it is important to be united and to send a strong signal to the commission and the council.
president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment tabled by mr glinne, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a brief explanation of his position. we are paying for it with air pollution, noise pollution and far too much space. this requires a radical shift from road to rail and water and the reduction of unnecessary transport. one of the ways of achieving this is by making road transport itself pay for all the inconveniences and thus become more expensive than rail transport. switzerland is setting us a good example. the compromise proposal for a toll is better than the current directive, but there are too many exceptions. the great danger is that member states will wait for the commission's promised calculation model, which will have to be agreed by the council and parliament again in two years' time. this allows interested governments to try to delay the transfer of environmental costs indefinitely. the most polluting trucks will be exempted until 2010. smaller trucks below 12 tonnes are excluded from the directive until 2012 and member states can simply grant exemptions for these lighter vehicles. furthermore, there is no guarantee that the toll revenue will go to sustainable means of transport such as the freight rail. member states may, if they so wish, invest the money entirely in asphalt. my group would have supported amendments aimed at more and faster results. with this compromise, they'll be out of the picture. the most important thing is that we now at least start to introduce this much needed toll on freight traffic.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. the 3.5 tonne threshold, the additional taxes, the external costs and the use of the proceeds are some of these. in my view, the reference to external costs is the most important gain in this case. in view of the desirability of calculating the integral cost for all modes of transport, the absence of this item would be unavoidable in the pursuit of a level playing field. it is a matter of satisfaction that the council has prevailed over strictly business-economic considerations in its sense of reality. the agreement on external costs is also the main point of failure. the council has not accepted a full confirmation of the future inclusion of external costs in the pricing. i would therefore urge the european commission to start the study of external costs as soon as possible so that this discussion can be continued with more concrete material and be brought to a successful conclusion in the foreseeable future. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the result achieved and the way in which it was achieved.
i would like to begin by repeating the words of commissioner kroes, who congratulated the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done. indeed, the reduction in the price of sugar in europe will also reduce the income of the 18 acp countries. the price of sugar they receive will still be twice the world market price. what is particularly important to me is that not a few traders make a quick buck off that extra money, but that this money benefits above all the poorest farmers, the ordinary farmers. that is why it is necessary for the commission to inform us from time to time of the state of play. secondly, it is not only important that the countries in question export sugar, but sugarcane can also be used for other purposes. in brazil, about half of the sugar cane is currently used for the production of alcohol. now, if the cars can run on alcohol there, then they can run on alcohol elsewhere in the tropics, and i think we need to offer as much knowledge as possible to those countries to achieve that. sugarcane can even be used as animal feed. about the 40 million we've been talking about, i don't think there's any more in there. if more money than this 40 million is needed during the year, then a supplementary budget must be submitted if the money can come from elsewhere. i am not as optimistic as commissioner kroes about the amount of money that will be available for foreign aid in the next financial perspective. i am aware of the proposals made by the commission, but judging by the latest developments in the council, i think the commission may be disappointed.
the reform of the european union sugar regime is accompanied by accompanying measures. the reduction in the guaranteed price is not only affecting our sugar sector, but also the acp sugar exporters. the european union's support is a major contribution to the competitiveness of the acp sector, in particular through greater efficiency and diversification. in nine years' time these countries will no longer be so dependent on their sugar production. the acp countries and the european sugar sector must also be made competitive in such a way that they can eventually face competition from third-country exporters such as brazil without an eu price guarantee. this is the transformation in which eu sugar policy can and must guide the acp countries and the european sugar sector. the resources needed for this must come from chapters 4 and 1 of the european budget. it is a matter of development and agriculture.
in writing. the directive on data retention, pushed through under the british presidency, was not expected by many in europe. in the future, citizens' and businesses' telephone and internet data will be stored for years to combat terrorism and crime. this blatant invasion of privacy and creates great legal uncertainty. who has access to this data? who's using it? it's not being handled well. it is not excluded that telecommunications companies use the data for commercial purposes. on the other hand, it is far from certain that compulsory data storage will help in the detection of terrorists and criminals. while the directive applies to the whole of europe, the definition of 'serious crime' is left to the member states. it is unclear who will pay for the huge databases needed for this. the directive is not only unnecessary but has been rushed through by the council and parliament. the rapporteur has been ignored. all the guarantees that were built into the commission on civil liberties have been thrown overboard by the council of ministers. once again, it is clear how ill-equipped our democratic institutions are to deal with this kind of demagoguery by which governments respond to the fears of the people. under the guise of terrorism, fort europe is becoming more and more a police state.
president. - mr alexander says he believes in the benefits of an informed discussion. the problem is that we don't have a lot of information. you are quite satisfied with condoleezza rice's answers and perhaps you would like to tell us why she was so successful in convincing you. now, i understand you don't want a diplomatic riot, but what's your strategy for truth-seeking? i would like to be informed about that. the united states says it does not torture people, but at the same time it was said: almost drowning people, that's not really torture, is it? mr ludford has already mentioned the mccain amendment in this connection. we can't seriously be dismissed with some sort of american pun. we shouldn't do that. terror suspects, who are sometimes released after months, often say they have been severely mistreated. maybe they're not well informed, of course. but either way, that's not even the whole point. torture or not, it's illegal to detain people without due process of law. we see this in guantanamo bay, of course, but it would be a great thing if people were detained in europe without due process. if that is the case, if people are in prison, if people are being transported illegally, also through european territory, without legal procedures, then the core values of the european union are threatened and the question is what we are going to do about it. it is our duty to investigate. mr frattini has now spoken about the legal procedures, but we shall see what happens. the core values of europe may be threatened and when this is the case, we must respond. we can start now with a temporary committee, as we saw at echelon, which worked very well. we can still look at it later and see if we can turn it into a parliamentary committee of inquiry. our colleagues are already collecting signatures on this, but we have seen, also in the echelon committee, that even such a temporary committee sets in motion a dynamic for finding the truth. a public debate that allows people to speak out, that allows public opinion to intervene, and that forces politicians to do more than just say, we have every confidence in the blue eyes of an american minister.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i am not happy, however, that some people are eager to take strong measures. america is still the greatest ally of any country in the european union and nothing has been proved yet. the bush administration is lacking in transparency about the detention system. prisoners can be held for years without the intervention of a judge. the manner of interrogation also remains unclear. i therefore call on the united states to respect the rule of law. senator mccain rightly introduced an amendment to narrow the rules of the interrogation game. it would be president bush's honor not to veto this. the fight against terrorism is a very tough one, but the law as we know it in the european union and the united states must be upheld. the eu will have to find a way to strengthen mutual trust with the us.
mr president, we take the matter we are discussing today very seriously. it is a question of possible abuses that touch the heart of our democracy and our conception of human rights. the explanations we have received so far from the american side are not sufficient. there's a lot of holes in the story. i do not want to go into it, but the explanation given by foreign minister condoleezza rice raises questions and we want an answer to that. we are also concerned, and i think this is an important point, and i have already referred to this in this house, about the attitude of the americans in the fight against international terrorism. in guantanamo bay, the united states has held hundreds of people since early 2002 without any trial or independent oversight. american politicians have regularly spoken of the need to use unconventional methods in the fight against terrorism. the us sometimes has its own rules. the us government, while assuring that torture is not practised and that all human rights are respected, is still hesitant about senator mccain's proposals to improve the anti-torture legislation and extend it beyond the us. the european union has a duty to safeguard the letter and spirit of the treaties and to protect our values. the information available at the moment on this issue is not sufficient to conclude that nothing is going on, but the european parliament also has its own responsibility. it concerns the possible involvement of member states and future member states of the european union in the cases in question. it may also concern the european union's relations with the united states. parliament, as a directly elected institution, has a duty to investigate whether the allegations are true. the first impressions of the council of europe rapporteur, dick marty, strengthen our conviction that there is no need for our own inquiry. we must therefore urgently take the initiative of launching our own inquiry, in order to try, possibly in cooperation and consultation with the council of europe, to find real answers to the questions which still remain, first and foremost by setting up a temporary committee as soon as possible and later on, if necessary, a real committee of inquiry.
president. - although the vote on romania and bulgaria has already been taken, the disappointing situation in those countries may delay the vote by a year. my group has tabled a number of amendments on this point, including amendment no 7, concerning the continuing extortion by police and customs authorities of eu citizens of turkish origin who are in transit through bulgaria. but developments within the european union itself also hinder further enlargement. france is threatening to veto negotiations with macedonia, a country that expects to enter the eu at the same time as croatia in close cooperation. the possible adoption of the services directive by former commissioner bolkenstein makes economic differences between member states a competitive factor. this invites public opinion in the present member states to oppose further enlargement. the voters in the netherlands and france, who reject the proposed constitution, are turning against the neoliberal policies that are destroying their livelihoods and taking away their security. there are now forces active, inside and outside governments, who wrongly interpret this as a disincentive to payments from regional funds to countries with a low standard of living. if we want further enlargement, we must ensure that these problems are solved in time.
president, our group, the pse group, has always been a consistent supporter of the enlargement of the european union to include the countries of central and eastern europe. the accession of bulgaria and romania marks the completion of the fifth enlargement round, which puts a definitive end to the decades-long division of europe. we want the accession of bulgaria and romania, like that of ten new member states last year, to be a success for the people of these two countries, but also for the european union. my group is confident that both countries are capable of taking and implementing all the necessary measures before final accession. the european commission's progress reports indicate what remains to be done. the points of concern and criticism are mainly a guide for the government and parliament of both countries to take the necessary measures in the remaining time. we expect both countries to do all they can and to take action to meet the objectives of membership of the european union in january 2007. the fight against corruption and organised crime deserves special attention, as does the strengthening of the judiciary. the importance of the position of the roma in both countries is also emphasised in the european parliament's reports. we gave our formal blessing to the accession of romania and bulgaria last april. at that time, 20 months before the envisaged date of accession, we did so in full knowledge that in both countries considerable progress still needed to be made on important points. the inclusion of a safeguard clause allowing the date of accession to be postponed by one year was important, as was the commitment of the commission and the council to fully involve the european parliament in the decision on the possible application of these safeguard clauses. we see reason for moderate optimism that both countries will be able to meet the requirements at the next assessment. we will decide on this in the spring of 2006. the last point, of course, concerns our own readiness for this enlargement. tomorrow and the day after tomorrow the european council will discuss the european union's multiannual budget for the period after 2006. this matter was discussed at length this morning. i would like to stress once again that we share the responsibility for making the accession of romania and bulgaria a success and i therefore also call on the heads of government - especially for both debates tomorrow - to take this enlargement as one of the starting points in their decision-making.
mr president, the verts/ale group has tabled an amendment to paragraph 19 of the bulgaria report. although the rapporteur welcomes practical measures taken to improve integration, key reforms to combat discrimination are still at the early stages. our amendment stresses that fact. in other fields the situation is worsening. the trafficking of children has doubled. the good news is that 86 bulgarian institutions recently started legal proceedings against mr siderov, leader of the neo-nazi party ataka. he will be brought to court for his hate speeches against roma, jews and turks. this initiative deserves our support. however, if meps are not cautious in expressing themselves, they run the risk of being exploited by parties like ataka. mr van orden’s frequent use of the word ‘adapt’ made the rapporteur popular in ataka circles. i am going to show you the ataka newspaper with a picture of mr van orden and an article inside. i think this is a sad day for parliament.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the financial easing of travellers. the latter even anticipate the behavior of the former. for example, an official letter from the dutch government, dated only a week and a half ago, mentions the fact that many border crossers put a small amount of money in their passports for the bulgarian customs officials. if the bulgarian media would finally capture this corruption at the border visually, that would certainly help, says an insider. perhaps a tip that the commissioner can pass on to his bulgarian counterpart. the fight against corruption is also a priority for the romanian authorities. however, there is a concern about the apparent tension between the desire to give publicity to the fight against corruption, both in the eu and in the public, and the reluctance that should be commonly shown in court cases. does the commissioner share this observation of the netherlands and, if so, what concrete action does he envisage with regard to the romanian authorities? i hear in this debate talk of fighting corruption and strengthening the rule of law, but there is a tension there. the commissioner knows this very well from his experience in romania. in short, the nascent romanian legal system must not be sacrificed on the altar of eu integration, otherwise we will miss the boat. finally, mr president, a brief remark on the protection of intellectual property. that's what we usually refer to in this house as china. the rapporteur, mr moscovici, rightly urges the same thing in bucharest, because the romanian shops selling counterfeit goods are well known. in short, boekarest is invited to perform.
i would like to ask the president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, to be careful today. a call to ourselves to take our own criteria and procedures seriously. i say this especially to colleagues who know now, at this moment, that romania will not make it to next year. they felt or felt that europe had gone too fast in the past with enlargement and now they feel that we have to be a little more strict and that whatever romania does, it will never be good enough. i say this also to the members who already know that romania will succeed regardless of whether it actually fulfils the conditions set. there is every reason for parliament to remain critical until the last moment, especially in areas as sensitive and difficult as judicial reform and the fight against corruption. they are not only the main problem in romania, but in all the applicant countries. the questions of six months ago are still crucial today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are there new people with new insights coming into important positions? is it really possible to fight corruption at the highest levels? these are questions that we do not have to answer now. our task now, ladies and gentlemen, is to be clear, to be clear and to make clear what we think should be done in romania. in may 2006, the time has come to judge.
president, enlargement has done the european union, including the old countries of the union, a great deal of good, and we must turn against populists who pretend that enlargement has been bad for us. i am convinced that romania and bulgaria will also enrich the union. the accession of these countries will not only benefit them, it will also add something to the union. friends, when i say this, it does not mean that we should not be attentive to the criteria, to the values of the union. there is simply a lot of work to be done in that area. according to a list by transparency international last month, bulgaria is number 55 on the list of corrupt countries and romania is number 85, along with countries like mongolia and the dominican republic. the fact that corruption exists at the highest levels is of particular concern. the border controls and everything that has to be done there is also a gap, and so are the rights of minorities. bulgaria and romania have done a lot, but there is still a lot to be done before the criteria are actually met. we were forced to decide very early in parliament, 20 months before accession, but the real decision of parliament on when these countries can join will not be taken until we have the latest information, which is in april and may next year, probably in may. i think we must be fair in this, we must let the facts speak, we must increase the pressure now and romania and bulgaria must do everything possible to achieve real results in practice in the field of corruption. i think it would be a great sign if we saw that senior officials and old politicians were simply put on trial for their corruption. that sounds like a wonderful signal to me. we must base our decision on that, fairly but objectively and also in accordance with our values. i trust, knowing the commissioner, that he will also operate in this way, that if the result is good enough, the countries in question can join in 2007, but that if there is still a gap, the commission will propose to postpone accession for a year. maintaining the criteria is good for maintaining support for enlargement, it is good for the credibility of the european union and, mr president, last but not least, it is very good for the people of romania and bulgaria themselves who deserve our level of freedom and democracy.
i would also like to thank mrs attwooll very warmly for her work, her report and the way in which she has put women's networks in europe on the map. i also want to thank the commissioner. it is not the first time that he has shown that he has a great social feeling towards the fishing industry. i would also like to thank him for his active involvement of all sectors of society in the fisheries sector. why is that so important? there are three reasons why it is essential that fisheries should be given a wider role than just economic factors. when i look at a crisis in my own region, the shrimp crisis, and the role that vinvis has played in it, i see that the women's network has contributed to a solution and i simply have to say that it is a very good thing that there is a social widening of the fisheries sector. i am also very pleased that this network has now been given its place within the regional advisory council for the north sea. but it is particularly important in the field of training, in the field of social status, in the field of the economic impact of fisheries. i think it is a good thing that the women's network, vinvis, and other organisations are being given a place in the fisheries sector, given the high price of fuel and a number of other things which have social implications. in this respect i was also very pleased with the hearing which the rapporteur organised in july with a large number of women's organisations and i think it would be good if this kind of activity were organised in the future by parliament and also by the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur again, mr president, for this report and i hope that the commissioner will also continue to implement the recommendations. his answer on this point raises reasonably positive expectations of such an approach and i hope that we as politicians will also work together to ensure that all sectors of society within the fisheries sector are given the place they deserve within the sector.
first of all, mr president, i would like to thank margaret attwooll very sincerely for her very good report on the role and significance of women in fisheries. women's work is often invisible and mrs attwooll's report helps to bring it into the spotlight. the fishing industry is a heavy industry: long hours and hard and unfortunately also dangerous work. more women on board can be an incentive to improve working conditions there. work that is too difficult or too dangerous for women is not good for men either. in many sectors it has been found that from the moment women entered, working conditions improved. increased involvement of women in safety on board ships is essential to make real progress. we can also expect women and women's networks to pay attention to sustainability. sustainable fishing is essential to provide fish for future generations. sustainable fishing methods with minimum by-catches and good control are essential. this month the quotas are being fixed and it is very important to take scientific advice seriously, otherwise the next generations will be fishing behind the net and women are often sensitive to this. it may be time to come up with a new policy, to experiment with fisheries reserves for a few years, to put fisheries reserves on the map, to give fish stocks the opportunity to recover. the maritime strategy which is now being prepared is a good opportunity to discuss this. i call on everyone to involve women in this debate in all countries. women are also often the traders and buyers of fish. sustainable fishing is only possible if consumers are fully involved. approval marks to ensure quality and durability are a necessary step. it is good to involve as many women as possible in this. in short, like my colleague attwooll, i expect a lot from women.
mr president, i should like to propose, through an oral amendment, a merger of amendments 14, 12 and 5. this concerns the very important but also sensitive issue of adoption in romania. we want to propose to the romanian government that it settle a number of cases that are still pending, as a consequence of a moratorium on international adoption, proposed in the past by this parliament. it is an important oral amendment. i will read it carefully so that everybody knows what we are voting for: ‘notes with satisfaction the improvements made by romanian authorities in the area of the protection of children and urges the romanian government to settle the cases of applications for international adoption made during the moratorium of june 2001, ensuring that all cases are examined in light of the un convention on the rights of the child and the romanian law on the legal status of adoption, with the goal of allowing inter-country adoptions to take place, where justified and appropriate, in those special cases’.
mr president, in the last few days i have received questions from other groups on the wording of amendment no 2 tabled by my group. in addition, a separate debate and vote was held on part of this subject, the allegation of the existence of cia camps in romania and elsewhere and the need for investigation into this. i therefore propose that we limit ourselves in this amendment to the position of this candidate country with regard to restrictions on wrongdoing. the following amendment to the english text is made to this effect: we add "allegations of the existence" and we delete "but also to undertake informal investigations". i assume that the objections to the original text have been removed.
the british colonial administration did not leave a parliamentary democratic structure in hong kong, but it did create the expectation that the people's republic of china would introduce that system there. when hong kong was returned to china, the formula of two systems in one country was devised. the illusion was that this would mean that hong kong, unlike the rest of china, could have a parliamentary democracy based on universal suffrage and a multiparty system. it was said that it would be a test ground for future developments in the rest of china. we now know what the two systems amount to. it means capitalism under the control of the ruling party in most of china and capitalism without that control in hong kong. in both cases, democracy is lacking. the situation in hong kong, where a small select group is left with the responsibility of self-government, is of course far preferable to that in tibet, where violence, intimidation and re-education are the instruments of central authority. my group did not co-sign the resolution, but i will support it. i would also like to remind you that the dalai lama has already addressed the plenary session of this parliament.
the european parliament has been calling for a new constitution, a new constitution, a new constitution, and a new constitution. the last 14 years have indeed seen profound changes in this area. the economy is now more like america's. the resulting gap between rich and poor is now greater than in the european union. the situation of democracy and human rights is certainly no better than in the last years of the soviet union under gorbachev, and the repression in chechnya is greater than the crimes of stalin. when it comes to democracy and human rights, russia continues a bad tradition. the european union has not changed russia so much as the perception of it in the countries of the european union. in the past, in western europe, we saw the east, led by the soviet union, as an economic competitor and a military opponent. today, we see russia as an ally and an energy supplier. the former german chancellor, now on a russian payroll, says that russia is now a democracy in the purest sense. in these circumstances it is not surprising that there is less and less room for independent television stations and that freedom of association and assembly is being restricted. citizens are getting less and less involved in government policy. with a law that puts non-commercial organizations of citizens under government control, can stop their funding and can dissolve these organizations, the return to a wrong past is further continued. it is therefore quite right that this parliament should join the criticism of the council of europe.
