mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. of all the institutions of the european union, the parliament is the most democratic. the election of the chairman is a casual inter-party arrangement. however, the president is obliged to represent all members of the european parliament of the 25-nation union in public. we are therefore surprised to see the unfortunate, scathing and disturbing remarks made by the president of the parliament, josep borrell, on the occasion of his speeches to various international bodies. it is scandalous that the president of the parliament allows himself to express extreme, biased, insulting and disparaging opinions about poland - a sovereign state and a member of the european union. as polish government agencies have warned us, mr. borrell has done this many times in the past. i believe that the views expressed are those of mr borrell himself and not those of the european parliament as a whole. and for that reason, i strongly urge that he be removed from office as chairman.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. as a member of the saarc delegation, i also wanted to address this unprecedented tragedy that has hit the asian countries recently. i fully agree with the colleagues who have spoken before me that the sums that should be raised by the european parliament, by us sitting here today for the first time since this tragedy, should be substantial and should go to those who need it most. but how do you say it? how can you tell who is most in need today and which institution or organization is most in need? last week, i was approached by journalists from regional newspapers in poland, knowing that i was in the saarc delegation and that i had a little more knowledge about the needs or information about who to pass this aid to. i'd like to know today who i can best pass it on to. i really liked the idea in the german press that we should create a network of cities, a network of regions, a network of schools that we know are the most needy. we could pass this information on to our constituents and institutions in our regions, and in this way bring together and show solidarity with those who need help most on the other side, and we could also identify in the most literal way all those in need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i'm very happy that we have something in common with the president, namely that we both like to watch videotapes. i'm not talking about that. the issue of the expansion of large-scale industrial pig farming is becoming a major problem in poland, as raised by residents and environmental organizations. this problem already affects one quarter of polish voivodships. often, this is done in violation of sanitary, veterinary, and environmental standards. in the previous term of office, a group of four self-defense meps intervened in the european parliament on this issue. to date, there has been no response from the relevant committee of the european parliament. this is not only the case in poland, but also in a number of new member states. it's a pity that this is being done with the support of the european bank for reconstruction and development. i ask the chairman to intervene again on this matter before the so far deaf and blind committee on the environment, public health and food safety. silence on this issue is good for some large companies, including those outside europe, but it is not good for the sustainable economic and ecological development of our continent.
mr. chairman, please! you are the most important representative of the european parliament, which is made up of representatives of the community representing the various political options. we all want to see a europe that is friendly to its citizens, free of conflict. the situation in ukraine could have caused a political crisis and destabilised the state, which is a threat to poland - a member of the european union - and the european union. the crisis was averted by the participation of polish presidents, diplomats, meps and european parliamentarians, among whom there was a significant group of poles. all of them contributed to the success of democracy in ukraine. unfortunately, these actions were commented by someone in a context that was unfavorable to poland and poles. we see them as a desire to weaken european cohesion. the question for the future is therefore: mr president of the european parliament, do the people representing the european parliament have the right to publicly express their dislike for any country or community?
mr. chairman, please! europe can of course play a huge role in the long-running global warming process, but only if self-discipline, solidarity and truth prevail over the vagueness of the law and the fraud and manipulation of emissions trading. while it is true that the kyoto protocol is an international achievement that committed industrialized countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the negotiated scope of emission reductions is a political compromise. it does not reflect the assumptions of scientists who calculate that 60% of carbon dioxide is needed to halt climate change, not 5% or 8%, which is something the union is proud of and which has also been achieved at the expense of countries where, unfortunately, the preaccession preparations have led to the destruction of industry. land use change (forestry) is also being used as an instrument of the kyoto protocol's climate policy. after all, there's really no reliable way of knowing how much carbon is being sequestered by trees - it's a process. this is why some afforestation plans under the so-called "clean development mechanism" are controversial. of course they deserve attention, but from our polish point of view we oppose the prospect of poland becoming a forest where the rich elite are going to travel to hunt. the burden of mitigating climate change should be shared equally across national responsibilities. rich, developed, highly industrialized countries have benefited enormously from developing countries and are responsible for a huge amount of environmental destruction, but they are much less willing to take financial responsibility, whether it's the united states or the european union. many also wonder whether the kyoto commitments are more of a hindrance than an aid to accelerating change. despite these shortcomings, we recognise the usefulness of the entry into force of the agreements, with the understanding that more stringent commitments to reduce emissions should be made.
mr. speaker, the house! climate change is a natural fact: there are warmer periods and colder periods. does human activity have any bearing on this? i have serious doubts. experts debate the issue, and there is no conclusive evidence. there is no doubt that the increase in carbon dioxide in the air has a positive effect on crop production and that the excess carbon in the atmosphere is effectively absorbed by the biosphere: forests, humus, sea, etc. on the other hand, there is no doubt that co2 emissions from industrial combustion processes are always accompanied by emissions of other gases that are clearly harmful to the environment: forests, agricultural production, architectural monuments and, above all, human health. so it is worthwhile to appreciate all the efforts that have been made to promote technologies that reduce the burning of fossil fuels. as the negative consequences of incineration are transboundary, the costs must also be spread across international agreements. the kyoto protocol logically shifts the cost of reducing emissions from countries that have made the effort to countries that are not doing enough. climate change has been and will be, and we have little control over it, but anthropogenic emissions into the atmosphere are a problem that humanity must address through collective effort. this collective effort deserves our full support. the shift towards renewable energy and energy-efficient technologies is particularly welcome. it costs money. without international solidarity, there will be no progress in this regard. but let's not be fooled into thinking that every natural disaster, every storm or flood, drought or tsunami, is caused by greenhouse gas emissions. let's just walk the earth and stick to the facts. thank you, sir.
mr president, this session of the european parliament is historic. we have been presented with a draft resolution on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, and by adopting this resolution our parliament - europe's largest democratic institution - is addressing the peoples and citizens of europe with an important message. approves the constitutional treaty and requests its ratification. for all those who believe that europe needs a constitution, the adoption of the resolution provides an opportunity not only to inform about the treaty but also to persuade the citizens of europe to accept it, and i think it is also an appeal to the european commission to get involved in persuading the citizens of europe to accept the treaty. in my country, the constitutional treaty has been a subject of critical reflection and has not met all expectations. as it stands, i have no doubt that the treaty creates the possibility of strengthening the european union. first, the treaty and its charter of rights clearly state that respect for the dignity of the human person is the basis of common values and thus reaffirm the importance of the judeo-christian heritage. secondly, the treaty strengthens the role of the community institutions: the parliament, the european commission and the court of justice. thirdly, the treaty extends the rights of citizens and creates a european public space. fourthly, the treaty strengthens the union by conferring on it the office of union foreign minister and also by making it possible for the union to continue fully through a long-term presidency, it does not make the union a superstate. fifth, it strengthens the union as a community of states, peoples and citizens based on shared values and solidarity. that's the kind of union we need. the two new member states, lithuania and hungary, were the first to ratify the constitutional treaty. i am convinced that poland - my country, where the majority of citizens are in favour of adopting the constitutional treaty - will also give its unequivocal support to this treaty in a referendum. i would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see this as a significant and somewhat symbolic event. twenty-five years ago, polish solidarity took the first stone from the berlin wall, and our german colleagues should not forget that. fifteen years ago, the round table trial in poland showed that it is possible to move from totalitarianism to freedom in a way that does not violate international peace. this started the process of european unification. for a united europe, this treaty is a great opportunity. (laughter)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. this debate is sometimes conducted in such a mood as if the criticism of the constitution did not exist at all. i think that mood will change when you go back to your countries and you're faced with multiple and varied criticisms of the constitution, presented from very different positions. the uen group, like many other political groups in this room, is divided on the constitution. the polish delegation in this group - the law and justice meps are against it not because it is bad for poland, but because it is bad for europe. firstly, the treaty changes the system of counting votes. the system of counting votes is changed in such a way that countries with a special interest in eastern europe, cohesion and agricultural policy are excluded. poland is of course also in these three groups, but that is not the biggest problem - it is the weakening of entire sectors of european politics. the treaty strengthens european authority over the union's economic, employment and social policies. it's not exclusive, it's not the final step, but it's a significant enhancement. europe needs not economic policy harmonization, europe needs competition between economic policy systems. harmonisation is pushing europe to the margins of global competition. the treaty is a major step towards the introduction of a community method of foreign policy. we haven't made any final decisions here yet, but we've made a move. it is difficult to see where the line is drawn between the community method and the intergovernmental method in foreign policy, as the new commissioner, olli rehn, admitted in his hearing before the foreign affairs committee. the treaty, after all, from the first lines is founded on false agreements. such a falsehood and a manifestation of great prejudice is the removal from the preamble of references to christianity and god, which is still present in most of the countries of the european union. these are all reasons why, to say 'yes' to europe today, we must say 'no' to the treaty and 'no' to this resolution. (laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. this draft constitution is far from ideal, and far from the compromise that could have been made. the supporters of the constitution, the supporters of a better european constitution, should reject this draft because the next one will be better. the members of the self-defense committee will support the very important amendment 102, which i personally signed, and which was authored by the member jens-peter bonde. the surrender of the powers of national parliaments, not to our elected european parliament, but to an unelected european commission, is an increase in the democratic deficit - and that is bad. the abandonment of the principle of 'one country, one commissioner' is also wrong. the idea that all the issues, all the issues that are not really cross-border in nature, that we put back in the hands of the nation states, that's a good idea. more freedom, less centralization, that's a good rule. in closing, i want to say that the members of the self-defense forces are open to the idea of a union constitution. we do not reject it, but we cannot support the resolution as it stands. we have doubts, which are shared by millions of citizens in the countries of the union. on the other hand, we are open to dialogue, as millions of citizens of our countries are. therefore, we shall abstain in the final vote.
thank you, mr president! there is no doubt that europe, its member states and, above all, its citizens need a european constitution. the current treaty framework is too narrow for an enlarging europe. what was enough for 15 countries is not enough for 25 countries. it's like a 15-year-old getting dressed, and then when he's 25, you can't put him in the same suit, you have to make him new clothes. the same is true of europe, and that is why an enlarged european union must have a legal and organisational framework that corresponds to its size, intentions and aspirations. and it is the european constitution that provides that framework. the constitution is a good document because it's a compromise document. it brings the union closer to the citizen, makes it more efficient, better, more human, more democratic and more secure. the most effective way for a citizen to influence the european union's legislative capacity is to have a high level of protection of his or her personal rights and better access to the union's affairs. the citizens of the european union are well aware of this and that is why they support the european constitution so much, even if they do not know exactly what it says. in my country, poland, it's the same. i am proud to say that 73% of poles support the european constitution, despite the reservations my government had earlier about the draft treaty and despite the campaign against this constitution at the domestic level. it turns out that it's a mistake to use the constitution for internal games. being in opposition to the government does not give any political group the right to call for the rejection of the constitution. the referendum on the constitution is about its content, it cannot turn into an anti-government plebiscite. the citizens of the european union know this, and therefore they have a better sense of what is good for them than politicians do, and therefore they reason according to the following slogan: 'whoever is for europe is for the european constitution'. let's hear them.
mr. chairman, please! we know the constitutional treaty is wrong. it's a legal bubble, it's been talked about, it's been ideologized. a thick tome of several hundred pages, unreadable to the average citizen of european countries, and written in the spirit of the french revolution. enlightened, revolutionary, and secular. it has no place for the lord god, no place for traditional values, european, christian, roman, greek, latin. it has no place for the values that are precious to us, such as nation, family, human life, faith, tradition. but there are some secular values, socialist, stupid, weird like a tribute to mother earth, i think gaia. rights for homosexuals, power for the brussels bureaucracy. we don't have the authority to do that, and we never will. the report we are discussing is a bogus, biased, misleading, propaganda report. all the positives from the treaty. where's the truth? shame on you! the european parliament's conscience is being blamed for the production and dissemination of a biased, propaganda report at the expense of the citizens of the member states. shame on us. how far the revolution must have gone to twist the truth like that. fortunately, poland will reject the treaty. i hope other countries do too. the league of polish families and the independence and democracy group are opposed to the adoption of the report. not for the constitutional treaty. (laughter)
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating parliament on this constructive and largely positive debate. i can agree very much with what has just been said by one of the rapporteurs about both the quality of this debate and the conclusions to be drawn from it. moreover, this parliament is the father of this constitutional process. the constitutional process started from here, as someone said this morning, and i would like to pay tribute, on behalf of the presidency, to altiero spinelli, who, with his draft european constitution in 1984, initiated and launched this process with a first step, which was the single act, negotiated under the luxembourg presidency. i would also like to say to those who have attacked and criticized this draft constitution that, of course, in a democratic debate, we respect their position. but it is not with 19th century speeches that we offer a perspective to the people of today, not only europeans, but also the world of the 21st century. the answer in a globalised world is not to retreat into the past and return to outdated sovereignty schemes. they offer no solution for prosperity, democracy and peace, neither to europeans nor to others. i would also like to say to those who make a subtle distinction between a non-pro-european and an anti-european, that it is a no, because the rejection of the constitution is simply a defeat of europe, a defeat of a more open, more transparent, more democratic europe, offering prospects both inside and outside, a stronger europe. so i think we should not get lost in such subtleties. of course, as the rapporteur has said, not everything in this constitution is perfect. we all wish we had made some improvements. but is not the essence of democracy, in a certain sense, imperfection, since democracy lives on compromise and, therefore, we must be able to accept a compromise of progress today, in order to go further tomorrow? the constitution provides a solid foundation for our common values, as has been said by several speakers. it provides a democratic framework for the european union to act more effectively where action is needed under the principle of subsidiarity. the union's motto, 'united in diversity', is, as has been said, the essence of this europe. the balance between large and small member states, equality between citizens, respect for national identities, which has been stressed by many, is the very essence of our union, which is very well reflected in this constitutional text. there's been some progress. maybe they're not enough. we would have liked to go further on the jha or the foreign policy side, but i think this is a very important first step. nor should we now consider revising it. of course, every constitution must provide for revision mechanisms, as this one does; it also provides for different types of work. the improvements will come over the years, provided that this constitution is adopted, that we are able to apply it and build a genuine european democracy through it. this text was drawn up with the wide participation not only of national and european parliamentarians and representatives of the member states, but also of representatives of civil society. there has been a debate, albeit insufficient, in civil society. this debate must be encouraged and supported, particularly through the ratification procedures which have already been completed in two countries, as has been stressed, and which are about to begin in others. in this respect, article 1.47 on participatory democracy is an innovative fact, so much so that it is hardly found in our national constitutions. it is a matter of bringing it to life and giving it a concrete content. the debate on the adoption of the constitution has therefore begun: it must be expanded. the citizen must be fully involved, whether there is a referendum or not. i fully agree with what the vice-president of the commission said about communication, explanation, the efforts that need to be made to make europe better understood. the presidency endorses this statement. this work must first - i insist - be carried out in the member states, because it is there that the citizens build europe. it requires the commitment of all: first of all, governments and parliamentarians but also - i repeat - representatives of civil society. in the coming months, the presidency will contribute wherever it can and where it must to this process and will encourage this debate.
vice-president of thecommission. mr president, i would like to thank you all for this long but stimulating debate. the vast majority of the comments have rightly paid tribute to this excellent report and to the work of the co-rapporteurs. hopefully, it will receive the overwhelming support of this house tomorrow. i am conscious that this report and the constitution need to be put into historical perspective. this is the first time that the european parliament has not had a list of regrets about the result of an intergovernmental conference, and we can ask one of the veterans in this kind of work about this. if i compare this report to the planas, méndez de vigo and tsatsos reports, for example, it is the most positive assessment of the outcome of an intergovernmental conference. i share the views of those calling for a wide and honest debate. without debate we do not have a democracy and, without debate, we do not get closer to the truth. it is therefore our responsibility to provide examples of how the constitution will affect the daily lives of european citizens. the word 'perfect' has been mentioned. i have been a commissioner for only five years and i have not yet seen the 'perfect' document. if you look around, how could we find a perfect document? we will have to continue to compromise because we are 25 member states with different traditions, languages, political decision-making procedures and views. we will have to show the will and the capability to compromise. this is a compromise and it will have to be a compromise. the words used this morning are worth recalling. most of them are politically loaded – positively or negatively. many have mentioned rights, democracy, openness, effectiveness and values. mr méndez de vigo reminded us this morning that the constitution is the unique opportunity to guarantee the values of the union. we are united in our diversity but with a set of fundamental and social rights that brings us together. these are the values we guarantee not just for us but for our children. others have attempted to describe the constitution as resulting in a european superstate, a loss of national sovereignty, or a weakening of the role of the national parliaments. they have already received a reply from mr corbett. while i expect that we should have to provide concrete facts and examples of the benefits of the constitution as compared to the treaty of nice, i also expect that those talking about national sovereignty or national parliaments should provide some facts. has the role of national parliaments been weakened? is it possible to sneak through a european law without supervision by the member states or national parliaments? we have to be able to respond to those questions. let us work on the basis of facts and the text of the constitution. this should be made accessible to our citizens in all the member states, not just scare stories or misconceptions. we also have to ensure that we are ready for the entry into force of the constitution when it is ratified by all member states. we will shoulder our responsibilities and so must the member states. it is not enough to hope that adoption in one member state will lead to automatic acceptance in the next country. that is why in the council i have pushed so strongly for proper national strategies to be developed. as mr brok has indicated, preparatory work has already begun on the entry into force of the constitution and the european external action service that will assist the european minister for foreign affairs. we are not exactly jumping ahead, but we have to start to be prepared. we cannot simply wait and let another two years go by before we can implement the provisions. we will have to prepared in the best possible way and find the right balance. i agree that we must ensure respect for the text of the constitution. the speeches this morning from members in the new member states have illustrated the historic value of the european project and the principles and values that it guarantees. whether we need a bigger boat, a larger bus or a larger dress size, we all recognise that we have a sense of responsibility. i look forward to joining you in that debate.
i'm closing this debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
i'm not a nobody. the next item is the commission communication - green paper on employment issues.
mr vice-president, we have decided to divide the questions into three groups. so what do you want to say now about the statements of the three speakers?
i have a reflection or a question for commissioner frattini. i do not know what the green paper is, but i would like to see it drafted in such a way that in the future europe is not accused, or blamed, as sometimes happens with the united states, for drawing the brightest minds from poor countries. the point is that people who come to study or to do internships in european universities and research centres, for whatever reason, do not stay here, whether they work or not, which would be a loss for their own countries. and these are often poor countries, where the education of these elites is very important for their development. it's about policies that allow them to work here for a while, and tools that encourage them, not so much to force them, but to bring that knowledge and experience back to their own cultures and societies.
vice-president of the commission. i thank all members of parliament for their suggestions and opinions. the fundamental purpose of this proposal is that legal migration should be seen not as a problem but as an opportunity for all of us and for europe in particular. in this period we will launch a public debate. we will take into account the work already done by parliament, particularly on equality of rights and opportunities for legal migrants. we will take into account suggestions, concrete proposals, and we will consider all proposals as a very positive contribution in the spirit of open and frank cooperation. i should like to mention the important issue of 'brain drain'. this issue of brain drain and what to do about it will be one of the key subjects in the particular and specific communication on migration and development, which the commission will present in spring 2005. i can already assure you that the commission is fully aware of the acuteness of this problem, particularly in specific countries and sectors such as healthcare. the commission intends to propose a tailor-made approach where responses could be made that are commensurate with the magnitude of this very important and sensitive problem. in this way, we will put emphasis on the positive impact that migration can have on countries of origin. finally, i can assure you that this problem will be taken fully into account by the commission.
the commission's green paper on employment issues has thus been exhausted. i would like to thank commissioner frattini and the panel. mr. ortuondo larrea has asked to be heard to make a personal statement.
commission. i am responding to this question on behalf of my colleague, mr kyprianou, who is unable to be here today, as he is unwell. the commission has made all reasonable efforts to avoid disruption in exports of animal and plant products from the european union to russia. this potential disruption arises from russian insistence that eu exports meet its specific import requirements. for animal products, there was the concrete concern that trade would be totally blocked from 1 january 2005. from this date, in fact, russia insists on a single set of sanitary certificates for imports. however, negotiations led by the commission on behalf of the eu have averted this risk. as regards plant products, where a similar risk to exports could materialise from 1 april 2005, the commission intended to start negotiations as soon as the risk emerged, and asked the council to endorse this. following a debate among member states on the basis of this request, the agri council in december 2004 agreed and the commission immediately started negotiations on these issues on behalf of the eu. the commission is confident that this will lead to a successful outcome. the honourable member can be assured, therefore, that although the commission has very little competence in relation to export requirements in third countries, it has expressed its willingness and has been proactive in view of helping to solve this kind of problem and, as soon as the commission was given the green light from the council, it engaged in timely negotiations. in the course of negotiations, no distinction has been made between the new and former member states. however, russia has insisted on inspecting all establishments in the new member states which have requested approval for export. the commission has highlighted that these same establishments have been approved for intra-eu trade following the enlargement process. it has also pressed for the inspection process to be carried out as quickly as possible. overall, this situation has undoubtedly led to disruption in the trade of these member states with russia, and it is not made easier by the fact that russia is not a member of the wto and does not therefore consider itself bound by the rules of the wto. the honourable member may rest assured that the commission has involved all member states in the efforts to avoid trade disruption, in particular the new member states. these efforts are continuing and the commission will continue to defend the community interest.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the situation is more dramatic than the answer given by the commissioner. since may 1st, russia has been juggling and not accepting goods from poland in retaliation for some countries, such as the baltic countries, not accepting imports from russia due to the sanitary conditions required by the union. and member states are not allowed to decide on their own veterinary matters concerning imports of products from third countries. i'm asking for an immediate intervention on this matter.
the commission, madam president! we can't possibly cooperate with the authorities at this time. but what we can do is - and i have already said this - to support civil society in particular, but also to work with the academic community in particular. i can tell you that we are planning three workshops with ngos and also with as many neighboring countries as possible to see what we can do in detail. because we also believe that promoting civil society is the only way we have left to make a difference in belarus.
thank you very much. thank you. commissioner, it seems that it is indeed very important to involve the countries neighbouring belarus in supporting the development of civil society in belarus. these academic programmes, as well as programmes related to free media, can only be implemented from neighbouring countries. if projects can be found that could fund this type of activity, it seems to be the best way to be able to work with real democratic governments in belarus in the future.
commission. first i should like to point out that i have already answered, in principle, the question of the media. i clearly pointed out the commission's opinion for the time being. however, with regard to projects and money i can give you some examples: the eu's support for civil society is to be strengthened; the eu's tacis programme – which amounts to eur 10 million for belarus in 2005 and 2006 – will focus on support for civil society, independent media – exactly what you wanted us to focus on; higher education cooperation including exchanges of students and professors; and alleviation of the consequences of the chernobyl catastrophe. the provision of information to the general public with regard to the european union and the european neighbourhood policy will also be strengthened. in addition, the tempus programme will finance exchanges of young belarusian university students abroad, curriculum development on european studies and capacity-building in local universities. as i said, belarus is indeed eligible under the new neighbourhood programmes. it will therefore benefit from the european neighbourhood policy instrument as of 2007. finally, the european initiative for democracy and human rights – the eidhr – will have a more active role in belarus in the years to come. in 2005-2006 belarusian applicants will be able to apply for support under two campaigns: 'fostering a culture of human rights' and 'promoting democratic processes'.
i would like to make sure that the european commission is aware that the educational programmes, which are very much needed, are controlled by the belarusian authorities. therefore, they cannot be considered as pure support for the democratic processes in belarus. i would like to ask whether, in the light of what the commissioner has said, the eidhr programme will allocate any money to support independent initiatives in belarus, given that for several years now not a single euro has been allocated from this fund for this purpose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the most ambitious task facing the incoming luxembourg presidency is undoubtedly to complete the negotiations on the financial perspective for 2007-13. it is certainly a very difficult task, but i have no doubt that everything must be done to reach a compromise on the budget by june of this year at the latest. otherwise we risk long delays, for example in the development of regional aid programmes, which could mean that eu funds will not reach the member states in january 2007. of course, not only the timing of the compromise, but also the form of the compromise is extremely important. president barroso was right when he said that we cannot have more europe for less money. without solidarity there is no european union. we cannot therefore accept that the solidarity policy and the need to support the new member states should be removed from the list of priorities in the eu budget. we must be aware that the objectives of the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved without equalising the disparities in the economic development of the enlarged union. we must therefore guarantee the resources for cohesion policy in the next eu budget. it is in the interest of the whole community. mr president, the highlight of luxembourg's six-month presidency will certainly be the visit to brussels by president george bush. for the first time, a us president will visit a european institution. i hope that this symbolic visit will serve to improve the recently strained transatlantic relations. without close cooperation with the united states, we will find it difficult to respond to many of the global challenges. mr president, i welcome your comments on relations with ukraine. the european union must learn from what has happened to our neighbour over the past year. the ukrainian people have proved that they share european values and want to be integrated into the union. that's why we should offer him a partnership that could eventually lead to membership.
mr president, i see two shortcomings in the luxembourg presidency's programme. hence my two questions. the document on the priorities of the luxembourg presidency lists 27 countries and regions outside the union. there is no eastern europe or ukraine among them. in other words, there is no eastern dimension in the programme. if this reflects the spirit and intentions of the luxembourg presidency towards the new european democracy which is being born before our eyes and at our gates, then it is worrying. your words in this house on ukraine are very modest. they do not promise action to the extent of europe's responsibility towards ukraine - a moral and political imperative. to continue with the old neighbourhood policy action plan is simply not enough - it is a mistake. it's a blueprint for ukraine from another era, before the orange revolution, which brought hope and a model for peaceful political transformation. the ukrainian action deserves a european response, not just words and old instruments. time in central and eastern europe is faster, it's different. action is needed now to ensure that democracy not only wins, but is entrenched and gives hope to others. so what's the problem? a revision of the old plan of action, a move beyond the neighbourhood policy, a new offer. the eu must take its relations with ukraine to a new level by offering it an association agreement and the prospect of membership, and we must not let ukraine's european hopes down or trade our core values of freedom, democracy and solidarity for oil and gas. support for ukrainian democracy is also support for the democratic aspirations of the citizens of belarus, russia and other countries in the post-soviet space. this is a chance for a political change that is in every way beneficial to the european union. the yalta years, the brezhnev doctrine, the berlin wall are over. we need bold policies that appeal to our values and not to our wallets, policies that project democracy and human rights, the right of nations to self-determination. the launch of a new opening towards a democratic ukraine is a great challenge and a duty of the presidency. i wish you luck.
in writing. the report recommended that eu member states ratify the european constitution. i voted against the report for several reasons. it is not appropriate for the european parliament to recommend that the member states ratify or reject the treaty, since the final decision and the implementation of the ratification process are the exclusive responsibility of the sovereign national authorities empowered to do so. the attitude towards the so-called european constitution, whose ratification will not, in my opinion, be conducive to the interests of poland and europe, is a separate issue. i have repeatedly pointed out the impropriety of omitting references to god and christian tradition from the preamble of the treaty. this is a blatant disregard for the facts of our continent's history. the revision of the treaty of nice, which was not even allowed to prove itself in practice, is also contested. the provisions on weighted votes in the council of the european union which were favourable to poland were weakened by the treaty without checking their impact on the functioning of the communities. i also question a number of other provisions of the so-called european constitution, such as the unfair privileges granted to the eastern länder of the federal republic of germany by other treaties.
i'm resuming the hearings. the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been served and i would like to ask if there are any comments or objections to the minutes.
you made your point. your question will be answered in due time. (mr knapman continued speaking off-microphone)it is not a point of order. you have made your point and you will get your answer. thank you. i understand that there are no objections as far as the minutes are concerned. (mr knapman continued speaking off-microphone)i am sorry, mr knapman, i will not give you the floor. (mr knapman continued speaking off-microphone)it is not a point of order. you will get your explanation in due time. we can assume that the minutes are approved.
the matter is closed. let us proceed with the sitting.
as i told the previous speakers, you will get your answer in due course.
i am sorry, but you have already had the floor. you have now spoken for the second time. 'no answer!' from mr knapman you may find it unsatisfactory, but that was my answer.
as i said, you will be given an answer in due course, not at this moment. i consider the whole issue closed. there will be no more points of order.
we continue the debate on the council and commission statement on european union aid to the victims of the asian tsunami.
it is customary in this parliament that before the vote, the representatives of all the groups, even the smallest, the unreconciled, are not allowed to speak. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the citizens of the member states of the union expect us not to speak in slogans but in sincerity. finally, we must speak clearly about the political context of this cataclysm. well, in the shadow of the terrible tsunami tragedy, there are particular political interests at play. the decaying authority of the united nations is to be revived by the aid action for asia. the us and some european countries are trying to improve their image in this region of asia and expand their influence on the continent through humanitarian action. it's like helping disaster victims on the side. that's the full benefit of the whole situation, that's for sure. i would like to believe that the european union's charitable activities will have a purely humanitarian dimension; that we will not, as a union, be feasting on human misery and pursuing our own petty interests on the occasion of a great tragedy. let us help them quickly and in solidarity, without bureaucratic obstacles.
thank you, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt in our minds that the countries affected by the tsunami need rapid, efficient and coordinated assistance. however, the role of the european union cannot be limited to the transfer of funds. we can't just be generous donors who send money and feel like the problem is solved. we need to plan a long-term programme to rebuild the infrastructure and economic life in the countries of south-east asia and africa that were affected by the tsunami. in addition, a special early warning system should be established to protect the international community from similar disasters in the future. special funds must be allocated to these activities. as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i would urge that this delegation become an active and natural link for the relief of the tsunami victims and the prevention of possible abuses that could occur if there is no proper supervision. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! there are sometimes concerns that the relief effort is becoming a competition, a competition between countries or organizations, that the slogan "who can give more" is dominating. these voices sometimes also contain the belief that the aid is intended to serve certain interests, which are not always pure, i.e. that the aid is not in fact disinterested but instrumental. well, this unprecedented act of international solidarity does not cause me such concern. on the contrary, i would very much like to see such solidarity in our conflict-filled world. just like this. not solidarity of hostility, violence, the formation of stronger fronts against the weaker. however, i must note at least two points. the first question is: why is the financial contribution of individual countries so poorly recorded in the statistics on aid? why are we talking about the contributions of germany, france, sweden? why are we not talking about the european community's contribution? we are europeans. we stress this at every opportunity, and when money is involved, unfortunately, nationalism is involved. the second issue is not the rules, but the organization of the assistance in this matter. the asian tragedy has made us all very clear that just as in war you need a central headquarters to coordinate the war effort, so in a tragedy as gigantic as this one you need a central hub to coordinate the aid. we know that we live in a divided world and we cannot create such a centre on a global scale, but we must create one on a european union level - a rapid response centre. voltaire had already proposed it after the lisbon earthquake, which he could not accept because it was contrary to his reason. now we know that rationalism is not to be argued with, so we must all the more rationally counter it.
counsel. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the european parliament on behalf of the presidency for this debate, which is a testimony to the great spirit of solidarity which the peoples of europe have shown at the time of this terrible disaster. the council has been very attentive not only to the suggestions, remarks and comments but also to the criticisms made by your parliament. i would like to make it very clear that europe has not been inactive. she didn't just stand by. it has acted quickly, and very quickly, at all levels: in the field of humanitarian assistance, in the field of consular cooperation, in the field of alerting, to prevent any development of epidemics, and also at the political level, to confirm the coordinating role of the un. cooperation between parliament and the council has also been very effective. this morning, as part of the trilogue, which lasted only a few minutes, we succeeded in releasing the first tranche of an additional 100 million in humanitarian aid. this shows that in an emergency, our institutions are working wonderfully. the measures decided by the council on 7 january are being monitored regularly and the council will take all the necessary additional measures. close coordination with the un, other donors and ngos on the ground will continue to ensure maximum effectiveness of aid. i also undertake, on behalf of the presidency, to continue this dialogue with parliament and to have regular exchanges of views with it on the implementation of the various measures decided to deal with the difficulties faced by the countries affected by the disaster. i cannot answer all the questions raised by the honourable members. i would like to take up a few of them, however, starting with the question, raised on several occasions, of the need to strengthen the european system for the coordination of civil protection. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. the president of the commission announced this morning that the commission would submit proposals to improve this system at the next general affairs council. this is certainly an important and central question. among the other issues raised, i would particularly mention the vulnerability of children. this is a matter to which we must attach very great importance. it is therefore appropriate that we cooperate fully with unicef, but also with the ngos specialising in this field. another question was about the internal conflicts in at least two countries affected by the disaster. it is clear that these internal conflicts must not in any way prevent humanitarian aid, and in particular the delivery of this aid to the populations. the european union can undoubtedly do more to help these countries find solutions to the conflicts which have been tearing them apart for some time now, or for quite some time. the council also undertook to monitor the implementation of commitments, particularly financial ones, and to continue its aid and assistance, particularly during the very important phase of reconstruction. the humanitarian aid phase will be followed by the reconstruction phase, and europe will have to be present, very present, in that phase. i would like to emphasize the issue of debt relief, which was the subject of a meeting today. i think we really have to help those countries that ask for help in this respect. the last important point is prevention, warning of natural disasters. we need to invest more in this area. we must use all the technological means at our disposal to prevent, as far as possible, the recurrence of such disasters or at least to reduce the consequences of such disasters.
commission. mr president, your debate today on the issue of the earthquake and tsunami in south-east asia shows the commitment of the european parliament to see action by the european union to help the countries and populations in need. i can assure you that the commission will deliver the help that is needed and will do this in close cooperation with you. i thank you for a number of useful comments and suggestions in this respect. as regards the reaction of the commission's civil protection unit, it immediately organised the sending of member state experts to the affected countries – the first experts arrived the day after the disaster. what are the concrete measures to be taken? as the president of the commission underlined, there are a number of proposals to be implemented, some of them in the short term, others in the mid- and long-term. on the humanitarian side, in addition to the support package already adopted, it is proposed that eur 100 million from the commission's jakarta pledge be allocated from the emergency reserve. i understand that the budgetary authority has already agreed to this politically. on the reconstruction side, some eur 350 million of partially new funds should be made available, and funds already programmed streamlined. i have noted your concerns about the reprogramming, but i should like to assure you that this improved streamlining of all the available funds is the quickest way to deliver aid and, in many cases, will be necessary, as some projects cannot be carried out in some of the affected areas. there is a proverb in my country: one who gives fast gives twice. it is important that we bear that in mind. not only are the amounts of aid important; the quality and mechanisms for aid delivery are too. in this respect, the commission should obtain the support of the council and the european parliament to use the derogations and accelerated procedures in full. moreover, the coordination should be organised by the countries and the financing programmes approved by the governments themselves. of course, budget support needs to be properly supervised to ensure sound financial management. trust funds with the countries concerned, based either on un and/or world bank trust fund formulae, may be a good answer to this concern. my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, is currently visiting the us, meeting mr wolfensohn, president of the world bank, to discuss these issues. besides humanitarian and reconstruction support, there are a number of flanking measures that need to be taken. the commission has taken action in various fields: reinforcing eu coordination capabilities to respond to crises; debt relief for the countries in question; trade measures – one of the questions raised – such as the possibility of accelerating the entry into force of the new scheme for a generalised system of preferences; early warning systems; satellite monitoring and research and development; preparation for disaster management; fisheries; justice and home affairs; health and so on. we are looking at a wide range of actions. of particular importance here are the measures for early warning of disasters and preparation for crisis response. i also believe that prevention is crucial. the best help is to save lives. this tragic event needs to be seen by all of us as a kind of opportunity and commitment to organise ourselves better and coordinate action in the event of a disaster. we can agree that the european union has a global responsibility. such events can be addressed only in a global way, at a global level. allow me to underline once again that the commission counts on the support of the european parliament in order to help the countries and populations in need.
i would like to conclude by informing you that i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the council and commission statement on transatlantic relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. transatlantic relations are the foundation of the future of europe and america, especially as china, india and asia in general, as well as latin america, with brazil at the forefront, become increasingly important. the europe vs. america match is the fulfillment of the dreams of the enemies of europe and the united states. it is perhaps worthwhile to remind the participants in the rally in mainz, which mr pflüger mentioned. i speak as the representative of a country where the overwhelming majority of the population opposed the war in iraq, and at the same time is in favour of close european-american ties. we have a new situation: here is the old-new president bush no longer fighting for another term and no longer needing to convince the americans and the europeans that he was right in iraq, and therefore will be open to the arguments of the old continent, that is us. second, eight new countries have joined the union that traditionally have a better, deeper relationship with america than some of the old europe. it creates a new, better perspective in this european-american marriage of reason, and life teaches us that such marriages last much longer than marriages of love. europe is not the homeland of mr capuletti, and the united states is not romeo. cooperation and a strategic partnership between the us and europe is necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. some of the statements and opinions made by prominent politicians of the european union, but also in this room, that depreciate the role and importance of the united states in the history of europe in recent decades, as well as today, should be considered highly irresponsible. transatlantic cooperation is an opportunity for us to find common responses to global threats to humanity, such as poverty, natural disasters, environmental degradation, the fight against aids, terrorist attacks. the european union in its present form, as well as the super-state defined in the draft constitution, with all its bureaucratic machinery, inefficiency and slowness, is unfortunately not able to respond adequately to the political and economic challenges of the world. the americans have effective action and free markets, and we have their caricature in the form of the lisbon strategy. in the eu-us relationship, our stereotypes, our unjustified sense of superiority and our desire to compete at any cost must give way to political realism. instead of rambling on about phrases, let's make a concrete transatlantic partnership.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. president bush's approach to the major challenges of international politics should be slightly different in his second term than in his first term - it should be less one-sided, more political, less forceful and more oriented towards dialogue with international organisations. the more significant his visit to brussels in february will be. this should be, as mr schmit said, a major impetus for a new opening in transatlantic relations. it should also be an opportunity to learn about america's plans for the next four years and to present our european expectations. it would be important from this point of view for president bush to speak here in the european parliament. he is the representative of the closest ally to europe, so why shouldn't he be invited here? we voted at noon on the resolution on the constitutional treaty. the constitution is supposed to be about building a european identity, but there are also those in europe who would like to build this common european identity of ours in opposition to america on cheap anti-americanism. it's not that way. europe and america share common values, but also history, a christian heritage and common strategic interests. this is important to remember both in the face of differences of opinion and in the face of new challenges, the successful solution of which also depends on our security. i also see three key areas where the united states and europe should go hand in hand in 2005. there was talk of the middle east and the need for peaceful solutions, there was talk of common security. i would like to remind you that there is still eastern europe, that is to say ukraine, belarus, moldova and a common concern about the anti-democratic tendencies in the russian federation. the european union and the united states should work together to launch democratic processes in those countries where they have not been launched, such as belarus, and to support these pro-democratic tendencies where democratic transformation has been launched, such as ukraine.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. poland has good reason to particularly appreciate the united states' presence on the european continent and euro-atlantic cooperation. this is due to our geopolitical situation and historical experience. at the same time, poland wants to be a full, fully credible member of the european community. we feel european and we are committed to the european union. this position imposes a natural obligation to seek the best possible euro-atlantic relations, because we know their special value. the aim of these relations is security and stability also outside the euro-atlantic area. we also do this, perhaps most of all, by supporting democracy wherever it is possible to achieve it. the latter is the result of our belief in our values, the belief that putting power in the hands of the people is the best guarantee of stability and security. what conditions must be met for democracy to win? first, the public's consent to the aid that is being offered to them. secondly, to remove the sources of threats to stability, whether economic or social. finally, the third important argument is full participation in the euro-atlantic system. the examples illustrate the importance of these three conditions in the pursuit of our aims. in iraq, in the middle east, they're not being met, and it's hard to succeed there. things are a little better in afghanistan. the real triumph is in ukraine. we have acted in accordance with the will of the ukrainian people, we have eliminated the sources of threats, we have cooperated and we have fully cooperated in the euro-atlantic system. but let us remember: ukraine's lasting success requires lasting support, lasting cooperation, especially between the european union and the united states. the draft of a common foreign policy can be an important tool for us europeans in the constitutional treaty. it is the hope that our support for a free, democratic ukraine will be effective. thank you very much. thank you. (laughter)
high isbo! with the end of the cold war, transatlantic relations are being re-formulated as one of the areas of the new, emerging global order. no doubt these relations are not as unique as they were a century ago. but for both the us and the eu, they are a proven and stable reference point in the new international situation. for all the differences between american and european politics, especially during president bush's first term, the eu and the us remain close friends, both politically and militarily, and economically and culturally. the european union cannot accept unilateral actions by the united states which do not take account of the architecture of international relations. america should not use its military superiority to impose a political dictate on the rest of the world, to be above international law. america should not use it to dominate the political situation in the world. what the world needs today is not the dominance of the united states, but the wise cooperation of the european union and the united states in the fight against terrorism and its roots, in efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights, respect for international law and the development of a global civil society, joint initiatives for the economic growth of developing countries, for sustainable development, the eradication of hunger and the reduction of poverty on our planet. i repeat: the world at the beginning of the 21st century does not need american domination, but cooperation between the european union and the united states. in today's european union, we must also critically examine anti-american sentiment. we cannot allow the emergence of pan-european nationalism in the european union directed against america. europe does not need to create an enemy overseas to create its own political identity, a new kind of ideology that hannah arendt warned against back in the 1950s. on the contrary, the european union should take action to bring america and its people closer to the european integration of recent years.
commission. mr president, it is an honour and pleasure for me to present the commission's view on the presidential elections in ukraine. more than seven weeks have now passed since what is commonly described as ukraine's orange revolution. the events during that period have shown that the people of ukraine are committed to democracy and also that the eu member states, by acting together, can play an important role. let me turn now to three questions. first, how far has ukraine come since the first running of the second round of the elections on 21 november 2004, and what does this mean for the country in the future? second, what role has the eu played to assist ukraine to find a peaceful solution to the crisis? third, what are the challenges now in european union-ukraine relations? i shall begin with the developments in ukraine and what they mean for the future. most importantly, ukraine has succeeded in finding a peaceful solution to the crisis it faced after the serious shortcomings in the conduct of the presidential elections and, notably, the first run of the second round on 21 november. the situation posed a threat to the country's legal framework and its territorial integrity, but both of these were preserved. the international election observation mission, led by the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights, found that the re-run of the second round of the presidential elections on 26 december brought ukraine closer to international standards. that is a positive sign. the political compromise reached on 8 december 2004 was important in that it paved the way for a new second round of the presidential elections. it is our firm hope that the compromise will also help promote further democratisation in ukraine. important constitutional changes were agreed, establishing the framework for the country's internal development in the years ahead, and the role of ukraine's parliament has been strengthened. recent events have demonstrated the ukrainian people's strong attachment to democracy. we very much welcome this development. further efforts will be needed to build on this and to take the democratisation process forward in the years ahead. we very much hope that the conduct of the parliamentary elections next year will reflect further progress towards democratisation. now the second question: how has the eu helped ukraine to find a peaceful solution? the eu has given sustained political support to help the people of ukraine find a peaceful outcome to the crisis. it spoke with one voice, urging the ukrainian authorities to show restraint and all parties to express themselves exclusively by non-violent means. the eu also helped to prepare the ground for the political compromise of 8 december 2004, with european mediators, including high representative mr solana, polish president, mr kwasniewski, and the lithuanian president, mr adamkus, playing a very useful facilitating role. the european union also made a major contribution, together with the broader international community, to help ensure that the re-run of the second round of the elections would be fair and free. in concrete terms, the eu sent 587 short-term election observers from the eu member states for the elections on 26 december. the participation in the election observation of a team of nine members of the european parliament, led by mr siwiec, was an important contribution. the european commission financed the participation of a further 150 short-term observers from the non-eu osce member states, as well as voter education activities. overall, the eu played a highly significant role in helping secure correct conduct of the elections on 26 december. finally, what are the challenges ahead in european union-ukraine relations? clearly, now is the time to take a fresh look at our relationship with ukraine as a key neighbour and partner of the european union. through the developments of the past weeks the people of ukraine have already clearly demonstrated their commitment to the development of ukraine into a society that fully respects democracy and fundamental freedoms. however, this is only the beginning of a long process which will require our continued support. the question of ukraine entering the european union is not on the agenda. the european neighbourhood policy is distinct from membership. it will allow us to shift to a higher gear in cooperation with ukraine. within the framework of the european union-ukraine partnership and cooperation agreement, it opens new partnership and economic integration and cooperation perspectives and offers significant upgrading in our relationships. the key tool for putting this into practice is the action plan. last december, the council endorsed the eu-ukraine enp action plan and agreed to forward it to the european union-ukraine cooperation council 'as soon as developments in ukraine allowed'. we all believe that the time has come to move ahead with this action plan. it identifies key priorities such as further strengthening the stability and effectiveness of the institutions, guaranteeing democracy and the rule of law, ensuring the democratic conduct of elections in ukraine in accordance with osce standards, and ensuring respect for the freedom of the media and freedom of expression. it also provides a comprehensive programme for our work with ukraine in all areas of cooperation, with actions identified in the fields of political dialogue, justice and home affairs, economic and trade relations, people-to-people contacts, cross-border activities and shared responsibility in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. we hope that the eu-ukraine cooperation council meeting on 21 february will endorse this action plan, thereby paving the way for ukraine and us to begin work on its implementation. at the council's request, the high representative and the commissioner are working on concrete proposals to strengthen cooperation with ukraine making full use of the action plan, thus enhancing ukraine's relationship with the european union. from the commission's point of view, this proposal should, as far as possible, also take into account ukraine's requests. the commission is convinced that the european neighbourhood policy action plan is a sufficiently comprehensive and flexible tool to allow us to respond to the new situation. the offer the eu makes in the action plan can be modulated to reflect the progress made by the partner. the further a partner is ready to go in taking practical steps to implement common values, the further the eu will be ready to go in strengthening our mutual links. the pace of progress in the enp will thus depend on the pace of progress made by the new ukrainian administration. there is therefore no need to renegotiate the action plan with that administration. the eu has repeatedly acknowledged ukraine's european aspirations and welcomed ukraine's european choice. recent dramatic events in ukraine have reconfirmed the country's place on the european map. we have no doubt that these events will enter into history as a milestone, not only for ukraine but also for the eu's relations with that country. the european union and ukraine have a common interest in further reinforcing their political, economic and cultural ties. if ukraine fully respects its commitments, as expressed in the action plan, the commission is willing to help ensure that the european neighbourhood policy results in significantly enhanced relations between the european union and ukraine. we trust that the european parliament will support us in all these efforts.
on behalf of a political group. mr. chairman, please! in less than two months, ukraine has again become the subject of this house's deliberations. this is an important signal, reflecting our interest and positive attitude towards change, but also the special role of the european parliament, which has been at the forefront of the response to the victory of democracy in ukraine. at this point, the time for words is over and the time for action has arrived. the absence and empty chair of the luxembourg presidency during this debate is significant. i emphasized yesterday during the debate in this house that the name of ukraine was not even on the list of priorities of the luxembourg presidency. i am also deeply disappointed by the european commission's position, which is very conservative and very modest, very static. in the new situation, it is clearly not enough to serve ukraine with the old action plan. in ukraine, democracy has won, the values that are our values have won. this requires a change in the european union's approach to the country, a new strategy and a new quality of relations. this requires new instruments, not the instruments negotiated with the government of prime minister yanukovych in the old era. the many expressions of sympathy and support need to be converted into decisive and rapid action, and remember that the time factor is crucial here. we can't wait. we have to go beyond rhetoric. we therefore expect both the council and the commission to take immediate action. the old plan of action prepared in the old era is not adequate for the new conditions. it needs to be revised and moved beyond the neighbourhood policy. support ukraine's market economy status; lead to the creation of a free trade area between ukraine and the european union; assist ukraine in its membership of the world trade organisation and the oecd; assist ukraine in its legislative alignment with the european union; establish a structured political dialogue and, within this dialogue, engage with ukraine on energy security and the fight against terrorism. we should consider a facilitated visa regime for ukraine. the association agreement with ukraine should replace the action plan and the association agreement should be started now and should replace the action plan after three years. we should finally open the prospect of membership to ukraine. these actions should provide a strong incentive to continue and deepen political and economic reforms in ukraine. it is in our best interests and in the interests of the victory of democracy in the whole of eastern europe. thank you, sir. (laughter)
on behalf of a political group. mr. speaker, the house! the european parliament has played a political role in ukraine. can we be proud of this contribution? we'll know it by the fruit. and what will be the fruits, what will be the consequences? first of all, the ukrainians know that the european union supported yushchenko. that hug with yushchenko in independence square in the camera's light and that orange orgy in this house, heavily publicized in the media, clearly showed the ukrainians that we were not neutral. if it were only about democracy, meps would not be wearing orange. now that yushchenko is taking over as the new president, any claims against him will be directed at the european union as the force that led to his victory. second, the questions are about to start, and they're actually already being asked, about who funded the orange revolution. yushchenko's staff representatives in 33 thousand district election commissions received 33 thousand satellite phones - who paid for this? there were tents and food for the protesters in kiev - who paid for it? we were told that prime minister yanukovych brought his supporters from donbas by bus, probably with state money, and yushchenko's supporters came to kiev with what and for what? ukraine is a poor country. somebody financed all this. russia, the united states and the european union accuse each other of meddling in their own affairs. as yushchenko is found to be unable to meet all the expectations of his election, the european parliament - the most visible external force involved in promoting his candidacy - will be singled out as the main accused. the next question is, who made the most money from outside the yushchenko campaign? it's a poor country now, but it has the potential to be rich. who will get to these riches? who will exploit them and how much will the ukrainian people benefit from it? finally, let us note that the political situation in ukraine is still far from stabilising. the force scenario is still possible. i hope that the method of dialogue and mediation will become a permanent feature of political life in these countries. but can we guarantee that? and if there's a power solution, what do we do? i wish the ukrainians to get out of their troubles peacefully. i wish them the fruits of the changes taking place there to be positive. but if they do not, the european parliament will also be to blame. thank you, sir.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. the european parliament played a very important role in what we now call the orange revolution. the fact that we wore orange, that many of us were in ukraine, was not an act of commitment on the part of one candidate, and it needs to be said very clearly. we, i think, regardless of the political differences in this house, did not defend one particular political candidate, did not participate in the political debate within ukraine, but supported democracy and the democratic process. if we were confident that prime minister yanukovych had won a free and democratic election, we would respect ukraine's choice. our commitment and our help to the ukrainian people was an aid to democracy and to freedom (applause) and was an act of our respect for the ukrainians who showed gigantic courage and determination in defending the values that are common values from ukraine to portugal, common values of our entire continent. i want to make it very clear that the courage that the ukrainians showed during the weeks of the orange revolution is the courage that should be given to the european institutions today. unfortunately, the commissioner's statement today leads me to conclude, with caution, that we are still lacking in that courage. the ukrainians have shown very clearly that their choice is a geopolitical and a civilizational choice. the ukrainians want to be part of our community. the ukrainians are aware that this is not a political act that can be done quickly and painlessly, and it is realistic for us to say in this house that this is a process that must continue. but today, ukrainians and many citizens of the european union expect us to open the eu institutions to ukraine's prospect of membership in the european union. thank you, sir. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! what the commissioner proposed in his opening speech is like the train schedule of eu-ukraine relations in the days of steam locomotives. commissioner, today's trains are powered by modern electric motors. if we can't offer ukraine a modern electric locomotive, let's at least offer a decent internal combustion engine. we need a new plan of action, with membership as the destination station in this new timetable. there may be other stations along the way, but membership should be the destination station. this is how the delegation to the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee, which was set up by the european parliament and which i have the honour of chairing, will operate. we have the chance to support in another place in europe another link of the people's revolution, which started not in 1989 but in 1980 and started in poland. but to support this process, a clear declaration, determination and willingness to sacrifice is needed from the ukrainian people and their new authorities. we will listen carefully to what president yushchenko will say as president, not in independence square, but at the swearing-in ceremony. new institutional support for market and democratic reforms is needed, and this is the task for europe and the international financial institutions. we need to be smart about talking to the united states and working with the united states, but we also need to be smart about talking to russia so that they see the opportunities that ukraine presents, not just the threats. it takes courage and discretion. the revolution in ukraine is over. remember, the divisions that accompanied it cannot be described by a simple barricade system of good on one side and evil on the other. eventually, both sides sat down at the round table and peacefully resolved the issue - the supreme court, the president and other institutions. and there's a re-election, and there's a new president that we recognize. today, the work begins to implement the revolution's slogans. it requires the consent of two camps that have come against each other. you can't build a better ukraine without 44% of the voters who supported yanukovych. and finally, a big country always creates uncertainty and danger for the cowardly, and interest and opportunity for the explorer. let's side with the explorers. thank you, sir. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the president of the european commission said yesterday: we do not want to talk about a europe that is timid and afraid. i would like to see what mr barroso said yesterday applied to ukraine: let us not be timid and afraid! we don't all realize what happened in the ukraine. i know that ukraine is far away and that we know little, that we can say much more about cuba or iraq, and we know almost nothing about ukraine. but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a powerful country in eastern europe, where what has happened recently can be compared with another fall of the berlin wall - the berlin wall in the east. until the orange revolution, there were no democratic rules east of the european union, except for tiny georgia. they are not in russia today, they are not in belarus, they are not in the other soviet republics. apart from the tiny georgia that dared to break out into democracy a year ago, there is now a powerful country of 50 million people, with an area larger than france, that has sharply and resolutely demanded democratic rules in practice, not on paper. this is a huge upheaval, a huge revolution, and we should be behaving in a way that reflects that. so far, the eu has been keeping up with the events in ukraine. i have to be honest, it was a huge surprise to me that the european union reacted so quickly and that it was the mediators of the european union, not the united states, who played the leading role in resolving the conflict in ukraine. i was proud of it. but i am not proud of what commissioner potočnik said today. it is as if the commissioner, the european commission and the european council were regretting their commitments after 21 november, as if they were about to withdraw at this moment. you can't agree to that. we've engaged, we've mediated, we've brought things to a peaceful resolution. we have a duty to continue to help the orange revolution, to help democracy in ukraine and to open the european union to this country, which lies entirely within the geographical boundaries of europe. (laughter)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. it's nice to be happy that democracy is triumphing. it is all the more gratifying that it is also partly thanks to us - the european parliament - and not to the conservative european commission, then and now. it is time to replace the festival of joy with a time of intense work, both in ukraine, so that yushchenko's victory is not wasted, it is not a pyrrhic victory, but also in the union we have our homework. ukraine should strive for two things: first, to establish democracy, and second, to carry out the necessary, substantial economic reforms. our catalogue of activities is as follows: poland's closest neighbour, the european union, must have a privileged position and a clear roadmap for membership, even if spread over many years. secondly, we need to support the reform of the ukrainian administration, the judiciary and real self-government reform. the ukrainian authorities should be expected to have a clear vision of these changes. president yushchenko's first visit will be in moscow. but i understand that by democratic and free market standards kiev will be importing from the west, not the east, otherwise it will be making its way to brussels. ukraine has a long, difficult road ahead of it, but its own. we must help and accompany her on this journey even if western tv cameras disappear from ukraine, and that will probably happen soon. the ukrainians must do the essential work themselves, knowing full well that we are waiting for them and we do not want to wait too long. (laughter)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. it is safe to say that the european parliament has done well in the ukraine crisis. we responded appropriately and quickly, and we can take satisfaction in the work we did. but we did not do it for pleasure, we did it in the well-defined interests of the european union. the european union is in the interest of a stable, democratic and market-oriented ukraine. what can you do to make that happen in the long run? of course, this requires a great effort on the part of the ukrainians themselves. the election declarations must be completed. we have the right to expect this from the ukrainian side, and we can also make this a condition for the union's opening up to ukraine, but this opening up must also be broad on our part. i'm frankly surprised by the commissioner's speech. it shows that the european commission has no understanding of what happened in ukraine. how can we today boast of the merits of the action plan when it was prepared for a completely different ukraine, for a completely different country? ukraine should be given the prospect of membership, and moreover, should also be given a path to membership. this path should include the following elements: first, the swift adoption and implementation of the action plan, but at the same time its profound modification and substantial completion; the urgent organisation of a donor conference, following the example of the one organised by the european commission and the world bank for georgia last june. if georgia managed to raise 861 million euros then, the sum for the 48 million ukraine should be many times higher. this project should be agreed with the american partners and the world bank. finally, preparations must be made for the association agreement, because, as the experience of the last enlargement shows, it is the right instrument to stabilise and open the door to future membership.
mr. chairman, please! losing your job is one of the most painful experiences in a person's life, and i want to tell these teachers that i understand. the way these people were fired is reprehensible. the commission should apologize for the form of the exemption. i repeat, for the form. but legally, she had the right to do so, and she didn't do it for her own pleasure or to expose herself to our criticism. that money will create more jobs. the fact is that the union is too generous an employer. for the same work outside the walls of the european institutions, the average hourly wage in belgium is 30 euros, which is four times less than what is stated here. we have sinned against these men by dismissing them in a very insensitive manner. they should have compensated for that. but is guilt enough to change the commission's decision? thank you, sir. (laughter)
mr president, on behalf of the committee on budgets, i am pleased to inform you and members of parliament that as far as financial matters are concerned, we are ahead of the resolution on which we are now voting. what needs to be done to mobilise eur 100 million of emergency aid to asia has already been done in cooperation with council. therefore, i am asking for a technical adjustment – an optimistic and positive one – to paragraph 16, to reflect the progress made. (applause)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. we, the citizens of the new european union countries, know very well, because we have it fresh in our minds, what it means to violate human rights. today, the situation in europe has improved considerably. however, the fact that mrs estimirova and mr kowaljov are here today shows that we still have a lot of work to do in europe. it is worth recalling once again that tibet has always been an independent state. tibet, being naturally cut off from the world, did not aspire to conduct any foreign policy. that cannot mean that china has the right to claim tibet as part of china. tibet is not part of china. the tibetan authorities and the dalai lama are ready to talk and will settle for autonomy, but that is the minimum they deserve and that we must demand for them. ladies and gentlemen, today our parliament is to take a specific stand and we must demand that the government of the people's republic of china establish a permanent dialogue with the tibetan people and respect the rights of minorities. we must demand and we demand that the death sentence against tenzin delek rinpoche be postponed and that he be released from prison. we, in turn, call on our institutions to continue to maintain and not suspend the arms embargo on the people's republic of china. the free world has the tools to prevent tyrants from abusing those who are subject to their power against their will. that tool is the appropriate economic sanctions, and we must demand that our institutions apply those sanctions. ladies and gentlemen, we must demand that china engage in dialogue with the whole of chinese society, but above all with the tibetan people and their representative, the dalai lama. ladies and gentlemen, we want the president of our parliament to address this resolution to the european council, to the european commission, to the secretary-general of the united nations and to all those who can influence china to respect human rights. we can't just wake up our conscience when there's a disaster, like a tsunami. our consciences must be constantly sensitive to the poverty and misery of people all over the world.
mr president, the iranian regime is responsible for many violations of human rights in iran, and we believe that the soft policy adopted by some eu governments has been a great failure. when we maintain diplomatic relations with this regime, and especially when the council labels the main opposition as terrorists, we are encouraging the regime to carry on its violations of human rights more than before. the most serious message that we could send to tehran is to remove the name of the iranian mujahideen from the list of terrorists. in reality, the criminal mullahs are the real terrorists. they hang their own people, including children, and also send terrorists to neighbouring iraq. this is, frankly, a very soft resolution. however, we support it and, in particular, the paragraph on a review of the terrorist list by the public affairs committee and the foreign affairs committee.
on behalf of a political group. mr. chairman, please! in a world numbed by materialism, only great disasters such as the tsunami or the terrorist attack in bieslan still move people's consciences, provoking reactions of help and reflection, while every day and for years we have seen tragedies no less than unbridled nature, causing mainly physical evil. but a person without a conscience and moral code can do far more harm by degrading his dignity and preventing him from living fully as a human. all of this, both moral and spiritual destruction, has been going on for many years in south asian countries, including cambodia, which we are debating today, especially with regard to the degrading human dignity of women and young children who are forced into prostitution, exported to work in wholesale shops, factories or on rubber plantations, or sold for profit. worldwide, it is estimated that over 2 million people are trafficked in the region each year, making the trafficking of children the third largest source of income for the criminal world, after drugs and arms. according to these estimates and un reports, cambodia's trade in women and children, especially their sexual exploitation, a barbaric form of modern slavery, is difficult to combat because both the police and the authorities are corrupt, accepting large bribes from wealthy corrupt tourists. more than 60 percent of women and young girls are forced into prostitution, and most of them are infected with hiv or already have aids. the obvious reason for this is poverty, or poverty itself, because in this region nearly a quarter of the population, a third of the world's population, live on less than a dollar. under these conditions, millions of women and children are forced into deadly labor, deceived with promises of legal labor, and then sold and exported abroad as slaves, exploited not only for labor, but for various forms of exploitation, including sexual exploitation, pedophilia, child pornography. it is also the cause of illiteracy and the communist ideology of the khmer rouge, who tried to build a new society through terror, terror, lies and who killed at least a million people. after years of pol pot's rule, the country was left in complete ruin, with its health infrastructure, medical care and millions of children who had lost their parents and had no means of subsistence. unfortunately, in recent years the state has also embarked on the path of economic liberalism. the liberal degradation of the family and the propagated utilitarian and hedonistic model of life are not without significance, even for those who, on behalf of humanitarian ngos, take their shameful payment for the aid offered, sexually exploiting women and children. so even resolutions and debates in the european parliament are unlikely to remedy this tragic situation, where even educated men in high places trample on the sanctity of the human person and the family. what is needed is not just financial aid and the promotion of a market economy, but above all a renewal of moral and ethical principles. thank you, sir. (laughter)
i would like to say that i very much like the programme entitled 'partnership for a renewed europe'. i am not sure what the word 'partnership' means in this case, but 'the renewal of europe' does. i believe that the very essence of europe is its continuous renewal and its next renaissance. i would like to draw president barroso's attention to two issues which i believe are important in this perspective of european renewal. the first is education. europe has always been the strength of its education, from primary to secondary schooling, and we must be aware that europe's place in the education system is being weakened. it is not enough to say that culture and education are important, mr president, we must present a strategy for how to put education at the centre of the european union's attention, and then it cannot be the answer that subsidiarity and subsidiarity do not give the european union's institutions the right to act. we need a strategy to make european education the best in the world, because it deserves to be and that is the european tradition. and the second issue that i also think is important and that i expect to see some political strategy on is the issue of democracy. it's not that democracy is a feature of europe. democracy is by its very nature a very powerful tool. at the moment, both populism and certain demagogues are undermining european democracy, but this means that there should be a european strategy on democracy that will also be a voice for the whole world. thank you, mr. chairman. (laughter)
mr marshall, mr barroso, you have said very nicely that we should plan to make dreams into reality, but unfortunately we have not heard what tools you want to use to do this. you said that the legislation should be simpler, but in the meantime the paper mountains are growing and we don't know how you will limit it, you didn't say anything about it. you have spoken of prosperity and new jobs, but by building a welfare state neither prosperity nor new jobs will be achieved or created, and the lisbon strategy is disappearing somewhere over the horizon. you spoke of solidarity, but what about solidarity, when there was a disaster in asia, australia, new zealand and the united states rushed to help, and the european union did nothing as it has done so far. mr barroso, if we want to make dreams concrete, we must identify the tools, and i really, really, sincerely wish you that, we all wish you that, we wish europe that, we wish our countries that. there must be the right tools for this.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. in this room, it has been repeatedly expressed that not only will the peace process be resumed, but that what is happening in palestine is the beginning of the construction of democracy, perhaps the first democracy in the arab world. building this democracy will not be easy, of course. we are all aware of the problems there, including the enormous corruption. it is well known that democracy must mean not only civilian control over all law enforcement agencies: police, special services, but also transparency in the operation of the authorities and, in particular, budgetary transparency. i say this because the european union is supporting and will of course support the administration, the palestinian authority, with significant resources. the point is not only that these funds should be accounted for, that it should be known how these funds are spent, but that the entire budget of the palestinian authority in general, including those items which are covered by sources other than the european union, should be completely clear to everyone and visible, so that it is no longer possible to raise the allegations, which still appear, that the palestinian authority simply finances the activities of terrorist groups, groups which do not promote peaceful activities at all. the second thing is this: we all want this process to lead not only to peace between the autonomy and israel, but to real peace in the whole region, not the kind that existed in europe during the warsaw pact and the cold war. and so it's worth thinking today about some of the confidence-building measures that we've tried in europe, and it's worked quite well. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the success was the fact that the palestinian presidential elections were held, the first in nine years, in a peaceful atmosphere, despite the israeli occupation. it is good that the largest ever delegation of the european parliament was present to observe these elections. this is proof that the union attaches great importance to the situation in the middle east and supports the peace process in the region. but peace in israel and the autonomy still has enemies. we must persuade both sides to resume peace negotiations. we all want israelis to live in peace, free from terrorist attacks, and palestinians to regain their lost dignity. this is not possible without the creation of a palestinian state. the palestinians are the weaker side in the negotiations, my sympathy is with them.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot leave another attack on the polish flag unanswered. i therefore answer honestly and clearly: the polish flags will hang here as long as they will hang over the president of the european parliament, because that is european law. the condemnation of the holocaust must never be questioned by anyone. it was a crime without precedent. however, speaking here today on behalf of polish members, i want to make it clear that the reaction of polish members to the joint resolution of the european parliament on auschwitz seems to have been poorly understood by the western media and society, and therefore a few facts should be recalled. for many years, the european press, especially the english-speaking press, has regularly mentioned alleged polish concentration camps such as auschwitz, treblinka, majdanek, sobibor, etc. this is a gross distortion of history - we should be talking about german concentration camps in occupied poland, not polish concentration camps. one example will explain it all: in france, 50 kilometres from strasbourg, the germans built a concentration camp called studtoff near the town of sirumek. never, never once was there any mention of the french concentration camp studtoffie, it was always a german concentration camp on french soil. in guantanamo bay, no one in their right mind says "cuban camp". the formula used by mr schulz in his original version of the resolution, and i quote: 'auschwitz extermination camp in poland', came very close to suggesting that it might have been a polish concentration camp. so don't be surprised at our outrage and anger when such deliberate false testimonies of history are dropped. case two, the joint compromise resolution lists only nazi nazis as perpetrators. here again, we remind you that hitler was democratically elected by the vast majority of germans. national socialism was not imposed on germany... (the president cut off the speaker)
sixty years ago, auschwitz-birkenau, the death camp, the death camp, was liberated. auschwitz was not the only death camp built by hitler's third reich in the territory of conquered and occupied poland, but auschwitz was the largest death factory in the history of mankind. in auschwitz, industrial mechanics were used to exterminate one and a half million human beings. 150,000 poles were deported to auschwitz, half of them died. 15,000 russian prisoners of war also died at auschwitz. the czechs, the belarusians, the french, the slovenes, the ukrainians, the latvians, the dutch, and even the chinese died at auschwitz. among the prisoners were up to 2,000 germans. the roma were condemned to certain death - 20,000 of them died. however, the vast majority of the victims were jews. in auschwitz, a million jews were killed, women and children, old and young. the absolute horror of the holocaust is not just the sheer scale of the crime. all jews, no matter who they were or what they believed or what they did or what country they came from, were condemned to death by hitler and the german nazis. everyone, even those who are not yet born. it is significant that the european parliament has recognised the importance of the memory of the crime. it's 60 years since the liberation of auschwitz, it's not an indifferent date, the witnesses are leaving. the end of living memory, the beginning of history. it is incumbent on us who are alive, on us who were born later, to tell the truth, the whole truth, of this tragedy. we owe it to the millions of people who perished. tomorrow, the founding document of the international center for education on auschwitz and the holocaust will be read before the gates of auschwitz. the center is being established on the initiative of the auschwitz-birkenau museum and with the support of the international auschwitz council, headed by former auschwitz prisoner władysław bartoszewski. and let me quote the founders: "soon, our burden will be taken over by historians, scientists, educators. we ask them to pass on the memory of the victims of auschwitz and the holocaust. deepen understanding of the mechanisms of hatred and contempt, and prevent them by developing dialogue and cooperation. we have a special responsibility as politicians to ensure that historical facts are not interpreted for political purposes. forgetting and lying, even if it's motivated by a noble purpose, will not help us build lasting understanding and peace. the most enduring foundation for reconciliation between nations is humility in the face of historical truth. it's the only way to forgive. we cannot change this tragic history, so let it be a warning to the world. i respect what president schulz said today and i ask you, mr president schulz, because the polish members and the ppe support the idea of a joint resolution to be taken and adopted tomorrow in this parliament. i appeal to you, sir, to change your position, to have your party and you personally vote for what we were in the beginning, to have the nazis clearly say that they were german nazis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate and a very important anniversary, paying tribute to the millions of jews, poles and representatives of other nations who died in the german concentration camps. we must remember that their path of hatred is not, unfortunately, a part of the past, but also of the present. today we have examples of lies and falsification of history, of minimizing the role of concentration camps and even of denying their existence, of minimizing the holocaust or of talking about polish concentration camps instead of german ones, which is particularly painful in view of the many polish victims of the second world war. the most recent example of this is in the weekly supplement of the belgian newspaper le soir, this week. we must therefore fight for historical truth and condemn the manifestations of anti-semitism, which is a moral disgrace for modern europe, and which is strongly condemned by pope john paul ii of poland. it is intellectually and morally embarrassing that we keep hearing about its resurgence, especially in western europe, but also in eastern europe. let's not bid on where, there's more today. wherever he is, we must respond decisively and put him in the dustbin of history.
your honour, the european parliament has a very special debate today. they are being held on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, hitler's death camp, and our session is to commemorate the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau by the soviet army and to pay tribute to the victims of the shoah. i come from poland, a country which, under the military occupation of nazi germany, became the scene of the extermination of european jews and roma and the death and suffering of others, a country which lost a large part of its elite and some 3 million of its jewish citizens in concentration camps. the nazi authorities built extermination camps in the occupied territories of bełżec, sobibor, treblinka, majdanek chełmno - camps where jews were murdered. auschwitz has become a symbol of this unique crime in the history of all mankind. my generation grew up in the shadow of the catastrophe that world war ii had brought to poland, in the shadow of the genocide that accompanied it. i say this today in the european parliament, the symbol of an anti-fascist and anti-totalitarian europe, a europe that has written on its banners the defence of human rights, tolerance and democracy. the memory of the shoah must be the starting point for the specific tasks that we europeans, the institutions of the european union, and the global civilization of the 21st century have to face. the council, in europe, is still witnessing the existence of anti-semitism, xenophobia and racism. we are dealing with acts of vandalism against jewish cemeteries, jewish religious sites and intolerance towards the jewish community. the jews are often denied the right to the heritage of europe, despite the fact that they are historically one of the oldest populations to have settled on the european continent. we are dealing with xenophobia and open racism against immigrants, religious intolerance, cultural intolerance, aggression against sexual minorities. does the high council not consider it appropriate that the european union should undertake a special educational programme to prepare young people for the creation of a european society based on the principles of multinationalism, multiculturalism and pluralism? other tasks relating to the external policy of the european union does the high council envisage deepening the political activity and economic involvement of the european union in the middle east so that the european union becomes a guarantor of peace and democracy in that region of the world? the european union should be devoted to development policy, aid to developing countries and humanitarian aid. activities to promote human rights and democratisation in different parts of the world. reacting in those regions where there may be enough genocide, murder or violence on the basis of nationality, religion, race, social or custom. is the high council aware of these challenges? what is the european union's role in the global age, at the beginning of the new century?
mr. president, in the face of crimes as horrible as those that took place at auschwitz, we are particularly obliged, to tell the truth, not to offend anyone, but to perpetuate this historic warning in the right light and in the right proportions. otherwise, we could be facing manipulation or even tragic farce. the auschwitz camp was built by the nazi authorities of the german state on the lands of occupied poland - a country that was invaded and dismantled by the third reich and the soviet union in september 1939. the first prisoners and victims of the camp were predominantly polish. during the implementation of the "endlösung" by the third reich, the camp was transformed into a jewish death camp. as a result, over a million jews, some 75,000 poles, some 20,000 roma, and tens of thousands of people of other nationalities, including dozens of homosexuals, were killed at auschwitz. anti-semitism was not limited to the third reich, as mentioned here, but the nazi german state was the only one to carry out the plan to exterminate the jews. the poles understand that today's germans are not responsible for the crimes of their ancestors. they understand that the holocaust is an unprecedented event in history, that the extermination of the roma has often been hidden in the shadows, but the poles do not understand and will never agree to minimize the suffering of their people during world war ii, nor will they agree to use the term "polish camps" or "death camps" in poland. political correctness on the nazi nationality issue does not build the trust and reconciliation that we poles care about so much. let us not be afraid to speak out about these painful facts as openly as minister fischer did at the last debate at the un and as mr schulz did in this room a moment ago. every human life is equally important, but when we're talking about big numbers, lumping together the victims of jews, roma, homosexuals and poles borders on absurd. apart from these bitter reflections, the uen group believes that the memory of the enormity of the crimes committed in auschwitz-birkenau should be expressed in such a way that this kind of genocide can never be repeated.
on behalf of the uen group, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this joint decision of the parliament and the council is a new, necessary and expected opening for the widespread use of digital technologies and so-called broadband. we're seeing an avalanche of development in applied mathematics, computer science, and an equally rapid development in electronic technology, especially geometric minimization while maximizing utility. all of this is to serve what i would call noble purposes, namely education, widening access to culture, improving administration, banking, and so on. this should be done to promote the development of all scientific and technical disciplines, to support the economy and to serve defence and security, including protection against terrorism. all of this should be accessible to anyone who needs access. i have used the words of everyone, but i must make a reservation immediately: this access, these facilities must not include criminals, including all kinds of computer pirates. this group of potential bad users needs to be effectively contained. this decision should also be seen in conjunction with other documents, in particular the decision of the parliament and the council to promote safer use of the internet and network technologies. but, speaking of facilitation, we cannot go on patenting software for the time being, we should rather look for ways to create low-cost, high-quality, universal access to the internet, for example, through low-voltage electricity networks. in this context, as i have said, the draft decision must be regarded as constructive. i thank the rapporteur very much, but unfortunately the amount allocated to this project is far from sufficient. the council proposed 135 million, the rapporteur 149 million and the commission 163 million. how does this relate to the lisbon strategy? how can so many important goals be achieved with so little?
this amendment arranges the text in such a way that we list the estimated number of victims of about 1.5 million people who died in auschwitz, and in addition, it also lists as victims russian prisoners of war, of whom 15,000 died in auschwitz. i ask that you vote for this amendment.
yes, i apologize for this mistake, the amendment actually concerns the introduction into the resolution, as a special place of teaching and remembrance dedicated to the holocaust, of the auschwitz-birkenau state museum in auschwitz next to the berlin holocaust center.
mr. chairman, i would like to protest very strongly against mr. cohn-bendit's words, which i understand are the result of a misunderstanding. mr cohn-bendit said that there were things in our amendment that i personally tabled that were unacceptable. i don't know what he was talking about, because my amendment only had one word. i wanted to replace the word "hitler" with the word "german". no other amendments were notified by the uen group. i can agree with that or not, but i object to calling such an amendment unacceptable, because there was nothing unacceptable here in my opinion. my amendment was related and i want to make it very clear only by putting the german word, because in recent days poles are deeply offended by the fact that the most important european newspapers write about polish concentration camps or about polish gas chambers, which is untrue and which deeply offends my people. and my amendment was directed solely and solely in that direction.
mr president, we intended to vote against this resolution if reference to german responsibility was excluded from the document. as it happens, this amendment was adopted and we supported the resolution. it is, however, very important to emphasise german responsibility for the holocaust, especially since we have reports such as that in yesterday’s guardian, which mentioned polish gas chambers and crematoria – polish gas chambers and crematoria! this is what the press in britain was writing yesterday. we had to insist that germany be mentioned in the document. it has been mentioned, and that is why we have voted for the document; otherwise, we would have voted against it.
ladies and gentlemen, you cannot build a community of nations on lies, on falsifying history. if we reject historical truth, perhaps for some bitterly we create the threat of a new ideology of death and contempt for man. i remind europe and the world that world war ii was started by the germans, who were obsessed with the idea of racism and death. six million poles died in that war. the hitlerites created numerous death, martyrdom and slave labor camps in the occupied lands, especially in poland. the biggest of these was auschwitz, which was created to eliminate the elite of the polish nation. about four million people of various nationalities died in this place of terrible torture. jews, poles, gypsies, russians and others. every life lost there is worth the same. we cannot play dirty games over the graves of millions of our innocent brothers. may we not be ashamed to take advantage of their deaths. above all, we owe our memory, our respect and our prayers to the victims of the nazi murder. may humble reflection on the tragedy of auschwitz be a purification for the guilty and a warning to the modern world. let the truth about auschwitz be a lesson to us. we will never understand this truth as long as we allow the modern slaughter of innocents, including unborn children. every human life is sacred. may we learn love and reconciliation from the holy martyrs of auschwitz, maximilian kolbe, a polish monk, and edith stein, a jewish nun. saint maximilian, saint edith, sister benedicta of the cross, pray for us. we are all praying for you.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, last week, an investigation procedure was launched in the german parliament regarding mass violations of the law, corruption and cooperation with criminal organizations of german consular officials mainly in russia, ukraine and albania. this is not a new phenomenon, and it is not unique to germany. it is also a european problem, because third-country nationals linked to organised crime illegally take possession of travel documents and are a threat to the security of the whole of the european union. they can move throughout the union, the community. until now, the new member states have been the focus of attention, accused of corruption in the services responsible for internal security and unclear procedures. special safeguard clauses and monitoring of the fulfilment of the obligations by the new member states in the context of the assessment of readiness to join the schengen area are in place. the enforcement of these obligations is much less rigorous in the case of the old member states. is it not time to break the myth that the new member states are a special area of corruption and irregularities in this area? in my view, the commission and the council should develop an evaluation mechanism that would extend to all member states equally, and would also cover visa procedures and practices.
i would like to draw your attention to the very dangerous statement made by mr rocco buttiglione, minister for european affairs in the italian government, to the european parliament. well, in january, during an official visit to poland, mr. buttiglione gave a lecture at the university of lublin, which was published in the largest polish newspaper in the republic under the famous title: humiliating a christian. mr buttiglione complains that the european parliament did not support his candidacy for commissioner because of his views on homosexuality. he neglected to mention his views on the role of women, single mothers, or asylum policy. it accuses us of a powerful lobby in brussels that wants to force all member states to recognize same-sex marriage and actively promote the homosexual lifestyle. i'll drop the other charges. i will now come to the conclusion, and the conclusion is this: mr buttiglione says that there is a need for a reform of the european parliament's procedures which will prevent abuses like the one that occurred in his case from happening in the future. this announcement of a limitation of parliament's treaty powers by the minister for european affairs and the incoming commissioner sounds threatening. i leave it to you to make an ethical and political judgment of that statement.
on the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz death camp, the world, but also europe, forgets the words of hitler, who called for the destruction of poland as our first task. the goal must be to destroy the life force. be brutal, be without mercy. the nazis sent you to auschwitz because you were a jew, a pole, a roma, a russian. innocent people were killed in the streets in the name of a crazy ideology. apart from the extermination of many nations, sadly, the end of fascism did not bring an end to cruelty. we deal with people being killed every day. many doctors take the lives of thousands of patients, including newborns. the killing of unborn children, who die at the rate of 50 million a year, is promoted. millions of children are starving to death, even sexually abused. during the process of adjustment to the eu, poland was turned into a market, with the destruction of the economy, causing unemployment, poverty, lack of health care, which leads to the slow extermination of the polish nation, and which is accompanied by a slanderous falsification of history, where poles are considered to have participated in the holocaust. the poles have survived two totalitarian regimes, which is why we warn against a civilization that the holy father calls the civilization of death, against the cult of money and the market as the only goal of life, which leads to the annihilation of all western civilization.
mr president, as we are now engaged in a very serious debate on the economic future of the european union, i wish to make a strong protest and call the attention of all decent people in the european parliament and in the governments of the european countries who are supposedly seeking a strong and great european union based on the principles of fairness, social justice and solidarity. the trend towards a 20% reduction in the european budget compared to what it was before is irreversibly aimed at further development of the european union at the expense of smaller, less developed countries which require a strong investment, especially in infrastructure, to equalize their levels of development. i therefore believe that this type of policy contradicts all the ideals that the european union stands for and creates a system of social inequality, injustice and burdens on the poorest. this is an unworthy policy, and i think it should be reviewed as soon as possible, because you cannot have more european union for less money, and the richest countries cannot change their policies after introducing poorer countries, when they previously promised them large funds.
mr president, in the netherlands, the first country to legalise euthanasia, sick newborns are being killed without consequence and with the passive attitude of the authorities. the infanticide is being carried out at the academic hospital in groningen. the hospital admitted to performing four child euthanasia procedures in 2003. according to the dutch ministry of justice, some 30 children have been killed in this way since 1997. the dutch authorities have not reacted. the act of euthanasia of sick newborns is murder similar to the nazi practice of eliminating sick individuals from society. it is a violation of the most basic human right - the right to life. the killing of sick children by administering a lethal dose of sleeping pills is an act of particular barbarity. in europe, where even animal rights are protected, helpless newborns are being killed. i would suggest that the committee on civil liberties and human rights should take up this matter and that parliament should have a debate on the euthanasia of children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we hear from the european commission lamenting the high and increasing cost of translations into national languages in the european parliament and in the eu institutions. these crocodile tears of the commission are funny. the fact that this year it is over 1 billion euros, but it is also a fact that it is also a matter of showing respect for linguistic and national diversity, and it is this diversity, respect for national identity, expressed largely by one's own language, that leads to the acceptance by the citizens of the member states of the european union of the idea of the european communities. so let the authors of ideas about saving on translation look elsewhere for those savings. they'd better cut their own civil servants' salaries.
mr. speaker, the house! i am speaking because i am very concerned about the state of democracy in the european union. we are now learning that it is a great success when a referendum, the most important act of the citizens' collective will, is attended by, de facto, very few - more than one quarter - of the eligible citizens. we also learn that during the campaign, such propaganda ploys are used as assuring spanish citizens that voting against the european constitution is voting against europe, which is a blatant lie. and what's particularly troubling is that there appears to be plans to spend even more money on the crowdfunding campaign. this is unfair to the citizens of europe! we demand equality before the law!
thank you very much. thank you. in view of the tragic situation of the health service in poland and the hunger strikes of health workers, i would first of all like to call for an end to the treatment of health services in market terms and the exclusion of medical services from the services directive and to propose the need for financial assistance to the public health service, especially to hospitals, which in poland are already over pln 6 billion in debt. as a result of the liberal amendment of the civil code, the bailiffs took 2 billion zlotys, which caused the workers not to receive salaries. the seizure of starving workers' wages is a violation not only of moral principles and social justice but also of many provisions, including the european charter and the universal declaration of human rights. i want to ask if the commission intends to introduce an order allowing financial support... (the president read out the minutes)
mr. president, in september 2004, the russian federation imposed restrictions on the import of food products from poland. polish establishments exporting meat and dairy products had to undergo a special inspection by the russian veterinary and phytosanitary services. of the 74 dairies checked, only two were approved for export to russia. to date, despite the fact that almost four months have passed since the inspection was completed, poland has not received from russia a list of plants which have passed the inspection with a positive result and have been approved for export. these facts indicate that we are dealing with discrimination against polish companies on the russian market. in january, poland received assurances that the european commission would intervene to speed up the procedures for the admission of polish plants to the russian market. i wanted to ask what steps the commission has taken in this matter and what the results of these actions are and when the discriminatory practices of the russian federation will be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we recently celebrated the 50th anniversary of the european football association (uefa) in the european parliament. today, in the plenary session of parliament, i want to give my strong support to uefa's latest project to level the playing field between rich and poor clubs in the old union, the new union and all of europe. it's about gradually introducing minimum limits for student players at each club, starting at year two and eventually year four. it's about forcing the youth to work with the youth, not just the rich clubs buying talented players. these limits will also apply to players from the country where the club operates. this in turn promotes national football and actually limits the efforts of the richest clubs to create a football army of "galacticos". these uefa proposals are in line with the principle of solidarity which is at the heart of the european union. this principle is worth sacrificing another eu principle, which is so often violated in the union, namely the principle of free movement of workers.
thank you, mr. chairman. as the anniversary of the end of the second world war approaches, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the further attempts to falsify and manipulate history for short-term political purposes. this is evidenced by the recent statement of the russian foreign ministry regarding the infamous yalta conference, which divided the european continent into two zones of influence. in this way, many of the peoples of central and eastern europe, whose representatives sit in this parliament today, have been subjected to the oppression of an inhuman totalitarian system for nearly half a century. the roots of this event lie in the soviet-german agreement of august 1939. not only germany but also the soviet union's successor, russia, was responsible for starting world war ii. germany is showing a willingness to deal with its tragic past, while russia still lacks the courage to do so. i hope that the european parliament will support the draft resolution condemning, among other things, the yalta agreement. it will be a symbolic gesture of reconciliation with the nations behind the recent iron curtain.
mr president, i hope that the fascination with the orange revolution in ukraine has passed in this house and that the time has come to draw conclusions. yushchenko's "our ukraine" coalition has submitted a draft lustration, which says, among other things, that people who criticize the ukrainian insurgent army, or upa, will not be allowed to hold public office. the upa has become a symbol of patriotism. during world war ii, the upa became famous for its murders of poles, jews, and russians. this slanderous article is directed against national minorities in ukraine, mainly poles, who criticize the upa for its criminal character. and here's who's backing this project: the congress of ukrainian nationalists along with their paramilitary organization una - some of whom fought as mercenaries in chechnya. the nationalists made contact with the neo-fascist national democratic party of germany, citing the world war ii-era brotherhood of arms. national minorities in ukraine are threatened, they are afraid and they are asking for help.
madam president, mr president of the commission, it is welcome that the european commission intends to concentrate its activities on three issues: economic growth, social affairs and environmental protection, but only time will tell whether and how this laudable triad will be put into practice. the imbalance, especially growth at the expense of the other two elements, would be dangerous for europe and its people, and especially for the citizens of the newly admitted countries. however, the european commission is also the guardian of the treaties, watching over the application of the law by the member states, and i therefore call on the commission to monitor this matter constantly, especially with regard to respect for the principle of non-discrimination. it is in the context of the existing principle of non-discrimination that the question of the content of the reach regulation and the services directive arises. is the european commission concerned that the attempt to exclude construction services from this directive will be interpreted by the new member states as discrimination? there are other manifestations of this behaviour and that is why i am calling on you, mr president, to ensure that your commission monitors very closely the application of the law in terms of the principle of non-discrimination.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address mr schulz first. mr. schulz, after our discussion about the auschwitz resolution, your opinion has completely changed and so my whole respect has been won. thank you very much! but now i would like to say something to your criticisms of the pope. i would like to say this, ladies and gentlemen, about the budget and the part of the aid for the meeting between the young people and the vatican in cologne: if someone else, i do not know - mr schulz, the chairman of any faction, party or grouping - had managed to bring together so many young people in good spirits, whether it was a socialist, a green, a catholic, or whoever, i would certainly have voted in favour of such a meeting. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i think mr. schulz will agree with me, and i can see his stutter, which i appreciate. at the same time, i would like to remind my colleagues in the parliament from the ten new countries, and again not only the christian group, but also the socialists, the greens, the communists and the non-aligned, that thanks to this man from the vatican and his work we can discuss a common europe together today. otherwise - and, mr schulz, it was not kovacs's fault (perhaps partially), but mainly his - we would not have met today. if they don't know or have forgotten, i would like to remind them and encourage them to vote in favor of this grant, which will make this meeting a great success. thank you, sir.
mr. speaker, the house! i thank president barroso for the statement he has made. without going into details, i would like to touch on a matter which i believe is politically very important, perhaps even the most important. there were two forums: one economic in wealthy davos, the other social in poor porto alegre. the point is that the economic forum does not pay enough attention to social issues, and the so-called social forum takes the form of an initiative that questions the economic forum, or even opposes it. there are two approaches to solving the problems of today's world. the first is how to develop the economy, the second is how to ensure that social objectives are met, and these are two closely linked issues. separating economic and social issues is a serious misunderstanding. so i think that in the future, there should not be two competing global initiatives, but one global economic and social forum. and herein lies the role of the european union, and in particular of the european parliament and the european commission, to pursue such a solution in the future. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. when we discussed in the new accession countries, in my country, poland, about joining the european union, we raised as an important argument not only the issues of economic growth, not only the issues of national security, but also the issues of personal security. the increase in crime across europe - and unfortunately also in the new accession countries - is a permanent phenomenon and requires radical action. there are also a whole range of new types of crime -- we know the problem of cybercrime -- and all of this requires new regulations. it also requires harmonisation and we therefore welcome both reports - mr antonio di pietro's report on the exchange of information from the prison register and mr antónio costa's report on the quality of criminal justice in the european union. however, it should be borne in mind that the harmonisation of criminal law (or any other law) cannot mean simply equalisation to one level. it cannot be a mechanism for the elimination of differences to the detriment of the national traditions, customs and needs which it has created. if harmonization were too mechanical, it could be done to the detriment of local traditions. first of all, there can be no equalization of rights with the law and customs of a country where the offender is treated with special care, where the offender is gradually turned into a victim and the victim is ignored, and where the protection that the victim can expect is actually less than that of the offender. here i am thinking particularly of the right of a detainee or an arrested person to have a psychiatrist present who is to assess his behaviour immediately and possibly release him from responsibility. there may be time for that in the further course of the judicial process, but it doesn't necessarily have to start there. it cannot be done to give the convicted person more rights than the victim, and this is unfortunately the tendency in today's law and legal practice. you can't accept that you're a victim and that's irreversible, and yet the perpetrator is like a new victim that needs to be saved, because he's not. the perpetrator remains the perpetrator, and the victim remains the victim. it is also worth paying attention to the issue of the exchange of information from the prison register. it should be borne in mind that different countries have different limitation periods and that there cannot be a situation where someone who is no longer considered a convict in one country is treated as a convict in another country. thank you very much, mr. chairman. i'm done, you don't have to knock.
mr president, the objective of the european union in the field of criminal law, as already set out in the tempere programme and later in the hague programme, is to achieve mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters. this requires good judicial cooperation based on mutual trust. the lack of such cooperation leads to the avoidance of criminal responsibility, to the escape from criminal responsibility in another country and thus also to the increase of the sense of impunity, which results in an increase in crime in europe. that is why my political group welcomes the report by antonio costa, which contains recommendations to the european commission on the creation of a justice quality card. the fundamental rights of the accused, victims and defenders contained in the proposed charter can also be used as criteria for the mutual evaluation of the quality of justice. and although the specific legal basis for this assessment is only to be found in the constitutional treaty, which is not yet binding, it seems that the general basis can already be found in the maastricht treaty. therefore, i believe that the european commission should, in line with the recommendations of the report, start to develop criteria and methodologies for carrying out such an assessment. this is not easy, in particular because account must be taken of the different legal systems based on different legal traditions and cultures and the different systems of judicial organisation in the member states. the methodology for carrying out such an assessment should also lead to reliable and well-analysed conclusions. it should be added that the mutual evaluation of the judiciary should also be complemented by other actions, such as the need not only to respect but also to strengthen the independence and impartiality of the courts from political influence. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. chairman. the consistency of competition policy action is the basis for the functioning of the goods and services markets. the 2003 report shows considerable progress in this area and also indicates shortcomings. the accession to the union of 10 new countries with different legal frameworks for competitiveness presents new challenges. let me just list a few problems here. in a number of countries, the market for certain services has been taken over by professional associations or organisations, creating barriers to competition. secondly, if there is a need for financial support for public services or production, the conditions for receiving it must be laid down in the directive so that the support does not turn into permanent subsidies that are hostile to competition. another note: in public services at the level of cities or municipalities, conditions should be defined to allow for a departure from the full competitiveness requirements if this would provide a better solution to local problems. thank you, sir.
this court is now in session.
your concerns will be noted in the record, mrs kauppi. i understand why you spoke in english rather than finnish. it is a serious matter and we shall look into it.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report (a6-0026/2005) by robert goebbels on the state of the european economy - the preparatory report on the broad guidelines of economic policies (2004/2269 (ini)) on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and - the report (a6-0025/2005) by othmar karas on public finances in the ugw (2004) [2004/2268 (ini)) on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the short time i have at my disposal does not allow me to go into this subject, so i will only focus on certain points. firstly, the waste of effort and resources by excessive and often pointless bureaucracy constitutes a very important constraint on the union's economic development. secondly, there is a need for a thorough analysis of the tax systems in the member states, including whether the vat currently applied is the best solution. maybe there are other, more efficient taxes. experience shows that it does. thirdly, a systematic, feedback-based analysis of the economic situation of the union as a whole and of individual member states every three or four years is necessary to recognise both progress made and to react quickly enough to difficulties. fourthly, the research budget for stimulating economic growth is far from adequate. i'll end with a point that's not being addressed here. all this, which we are so anxiously debating, these economic disputes and i do not know how cleverly elaborated will be nothing but empty words if no real steps are taken to prevent the coming demographic collapse in the union. no, i'm not -- look at the demographics: they're dry, but they're a clear warning. today, for every person of retirement age, there are four people in work. in 30 years, there will be two. can they handle it? let us not forget that the family, with parents and children, is the first economic reality. in fact, according to 1992 nobel prize winner gary becker, the family and the work that goes into it accounts for as much as 30 percent of the national income. the french economist jean-didier lecaillon says the same thing. i could quote other statements, especially the powerful voice of john paul ii. the statesman, no doubt charles de gaulle, was not joking when he said that if you are poor and have no other option, you must invest in your family. the european union is not a party to the treaty. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time we are in a situation where the majority of member states are outside the euro area, not in it (13 out of 25). we also have the lowest interest rates in europe since world war ii, but that doesn't translate into investment appetite. let's be clear: we have weak economic growth in the euro area. we already know that household consumption will be low in the next two years. this is a union-wide issue. meanwhile, the economic aspirations of citizens, especially in the new eu member states, such as my country, poland, have increased significantly after enlargement. they are faced with a poor economic situation and the inability to meet consumer expectations. on the political side, this could lead to a rise in eurosceptic sentiment over time, especially since all the forecasts, including those quoted in mr goebbels' report, point to a high level of unemployment in the near future. the union's societies expect real economic growth, as promised many times at eu summits in recent years, but they also expect justice and equal treatment for all member states. the union is putting into practice the idea of equals and those who are more equal than others, as expressed in orwell's book 'the animal farm', by accepting the high budget deficits of countries such as germany and france, but by absolutely condemning other - weaker, poorer - countries if they dare to run budget deficits too. this does not build the union's authority in the eyes of other member states. this is just a scandal.
mr president, the proposed changes to the stability and growth pact aim to make fiscal rules more flexible and effective within the european union, but without compromising the fundamental principle of budgetary discipline. i think that these changes are going in the right direction and i would like to draw attention to three things in this context. firstly, the commission's proposals focus mainly on the level of the current budget deficit, while the level of public debt is of secondary importance in these proposals. i think it should be the other way around, because the key to long-term financial stability is the debt-to-gdp ratio, not the deficit ratio in a given year. the deficit ceiling for very highly indebted countries should therefore be more stringent than the deficit ceiling for low-indebted countries. the latter can afford to run higher deficits temporarily because they cannot be punished for behaving properly in the past. the current account deficit criterion should therefore be secondary to the debt criterion. secondly, the way the deficit is calculated must take account of the specific situation in some new member states which have undertaken a difficult reform of their pension systems. in these countries, the expenditure associated with this reform is temporarily increasing because of the need to finance current pensions and to create pension capital for future generations at the same time. these expenditures should not be included in current public expenditure for the purposes of the stability and growth pact, as they do not increase current demand but are part of national savings. new member states cannot be punished for undertaking difficult structural reforms. thirdly, when establishing the principle for calculating the deficit for the purposes of the stability and growth pact, i propose, commissioner, that we consider excluding expenditure relating to payments to the union budget. while such expenditure increases the level of demand across the union, it serves to implement an important principle of solidarity. adopting this solution could facilitate a compromise on the level of the european union budget for 2007-13. i would remind you that some member states are demanding a so-called 'small budget' precisely because they are net contributors to the budget. thank you very much. thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank all the members who have contributed to the debate, which i found extremely interesting. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate the commission's diagnosis. sometimes, in the course of the debate, the commission is attributed ideas which neither it nor i take for granted. the commission and i believe that the main challenge to increasing growth in the european union and the euro area is to increase the growth potential. this requires structural reforms such as those put forward by the commission in its communication on the review and revitalization of the lisbon strategy. if we do not increase the growth potential, the medium and long-term sustainability of our economy, of our model of society, will not be possible and budgetary stability and macroeconomic stability in the short term will be seriously damaged by the lack of growth. that is the diagnosis, and from that point of view, macroeconomic policy, as the kok report says - and i fully agree with that - must support a strategy of structural reforms which increases the growth potential to sustain that growth and to prevent the lack of liquidity, financing and demand from jeopardizing the exploitation of all the growth possibilities which we have achieved thanks to the reforms. the commission considers it a priority to succeed in revitalizing the lisbon strategy and to this end we have put ten priorities on the table and have considered how to improve the capacity to put the lisbon strategy into practice in the reality of each of the member states, in order to achieve, in all of them and in the european union, the objectives we share. objectives which have not been reduced in the commission's communication, but which have been confirmed as they were defined five years ago. as regards the stability pact, mr president, i would like to make a few clarifications. i think it is appropriate that we should have an understanding of what is happening in these weeks, when the council, with the support of the commission through excellent cooperation with the luxembourg presidency, is trying to reach agreement on how to improve the way in which our budgetary discipline mechanisms are implemented in practice and to make the objectives pursued by the treaty, by defining budgetary stability as one of the conditions for economic and monetary union, a more positive and visible reality than the present one. what are we doing? firstly, we reiterate our firm, clear and unambiguous commitment to the reference values set out in the treaty. the 3% is in the treaty and the commission will not allow a reference value in the treaty to be disregarded. i would like to make it clear again, and i will make it clear again as often as necessary, that neither the commission's proposal nor the present unanimous position of all the ecofin ministers is proposing to exclude any category of expenditure from the deficit calculation. what is being asked, in the terms of article 104 of the treaty, is what relevant factors need to be taken into account when analysing why the excessive deficit has occurred or what needs to be done to restore a balanced situation, sustainability of public finances, reducing the level of the deficit below the reference value. we can distinguish, and we are doing so precisely in the debate, between not excluding any category of expenditure and, at the same time, taking into account economic factors, the composition of public expenditure, the state of the cycle, structural reforms under way, in order to see how the preventive part of the pact is being applied, how public finances are in balance in the medium and long term or, in the part of the excessive deficit procedure, what recommendations are really effective for a country in an excessive deficit to regain budgetary balance. to this end, it is extremely important, and this is the second key element in our discussion, to avoid procyclical policies in the implementation of the pact, both in the preventive and in the corrective part of the excessive deficit procedure. one of the most obvious reasons why some countries have broken the 3% deficit rule is that, when they were in the prime of their economic cycle, they did not apply procyclical policies, they did not sufficiently consolidate their public finances, and there are instruments in the treaty such as early warnings, which the constitution also reinforces and attributes directly to the commission, which must be used more effectively. in addition, in each of the member states, national rules must be established to supplement the pressure, the peer pressure, on those who decide at national level the composition of budget revenue and expenditure and therefore the budget deficit of each of the member states, which, i recall, remains a national competence, although, as mrs berès said, the overall result of these national decisions on budgetary policy is a matter of common interest, because we are in an economic and monetary union. as regards the excessive deficit procedure, we are discussing, and this is the most difficult point of our discussion, how the excessive deficit procedure should be launched. i repeat the position, there is no exclusion in expenditure when calculating what the deficit level is. but if you read article 104 of the treaty again, you will see that once the european commission has informed the council that a given country is, in its view, in an excessive deficit situation, the council has full powers, after an overall assessment, an overall assessment article 104 (6) of the treaty to decide 'whether an excessive deficit exists'. we are trying to make sure that the criteria used by the commission when it tells the council that a country is in an excessive deficit coincide with those which the council then considers, so that shocks like those which have occurred in the past do not happen again. so that in respecting the commission's tasks and powers - and the commission will not renounce any of the powers conferred on it by the treaty - and in using the council's tasks and powers - which will also not renounce those conferred on it by the treaty - there are no blocks in this interrelation, in this cooperation, which paralyse the procedure and give rise to conflicts such as those which took place just over a year ago. governance is very important, it is very important that there are national rules to complement the effort by the member states to adopt common rules of budgetary discipline. it is very important, as we have recently seen, to have clear, reliable and secure statistics. the cooperation between the two institutions, the council and the commission, is very important, and the support and debate in parliament, such as is taking place today and which will no doubt take place in the future, is extremely important. it's very important that we come to an agreement. the credibility of economic and monetary union and, in particular, of our single currency in the eyes of the markets has been discussed, and i share this concern. the markets will not understand that there is no agreement at the european council in march, and we must all, each one of us in our respective responsibilities, make every effort to ensure that this agreement is signed and published on 23 march in the conclusions of the european council. the commission will make every effort to do so. i would like to conclude by mentioning the excellent cooperation we are having with a council presidency which is also firmly committed to achieving this success.
i'm closing this joint debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
mr president, the european capital of culture is the most visible and legible programme promoting the idea of a common europe. in a situation where we are constantly hearing about the lack of interest of citizens in european issues, where the common europe is increasingly associated only with long and boring discussions on one or another technical administrative aspect of the european institutions, the project of the cultural capital is a praiseworthy exception. it was enough to be in lille last year, the european capital of culture last year, or in krakow, which was the european capital of culture in 2000, along with eight other european cities, or in many other capitals, to see the enormous interest in europe, the enormous enthusiasm of citizens who are participating en masse in extraordinary cultural events. all those who speak negatively of european integration could see with what enthusiasm, joy and anticipation cultural events of the highest quality are received, having their origin in the search for common european roots. the european capitals of culture are the places where a real and lively dialogue takes place and where the tired professional builders of our continent should look for inspiration from the schuman round. because the fundamental value of this programme is that it was not created by a bureaucratic initiative, it was not conceived behind the desks in brussels - it was a spontaneous idea born in athens 20 years ago, taken up by other european cities. this idea should now be supported by the creation of a specifically dedicated budget in the financing programme 2007-2013. the current design does not provide for this. i was surprised to find that the only specialist association for european capitals and months of culture (eccm) was not included among the dozens of other organisations funded by the european commission. it brings together experienced managers responsible for implementing the programme in their countries. i appeal to you to correct this error. now, 20 years later, it is time for the european commission to give this programme a meaningful boost in the years ahead and to take account of the achievements of the previous organisers. technical and artistic assistance should be provided so that the union can help those who will be organising the next celebration of the european union and its cultural capital in the coming years.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr karel-heinz florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, for initiating the debate on the natura 2000 project. poland has made great progress in the field of nature conservation at european level. the tradition of creating protected areas in poland dates back to the 19th century. in the last 20 years, the area of protected areas has increased from 9% to 32% of the country's area. my country is concerned that the development of the natura 2000 concept in europe is not accompanied by adequate financial guarantees for the construction and maintenance of this network. poland therefore joined the declaration made in october and december by most eu member states expressing their disappointment with the european commission's proposed concept of co-financing the natura 2000 network. the lack of clear rules for raising funds for natura 2000 conservation activities for the period 2007-2013 will certainly lead to a gap in funding for the natura 2000 network, with the result that many of the necessary conservation activities will not be able to be carried out. in poland, most of the areas designated as natura 2000 sites are not eligible for the funds, e.g. areas owned by state forests or areas not used for agriculture: swamps, natural moors, dunes, moors, scrub. providing separate funding for the creation of the natura 2000 network is of particular importance for poland and other countries in the context of the letter from the european commission of 6 january 2005, in which it was suggested that poland consider expanding the list of natura 2000 sites. poland therefore expects that the new financial perspective will provide adequate financial resources to support the natura 2000 network development process. i also propose that the life+ component of natura 2000 be separated from the life+ regulation.
on behalf of a political group. the european environment action plan 2004-2010 is, in our view, lacking in many areas and does not cover all the issues. the warnings of many experts have long been ignored not only by ignorance and thoughtlessness but also by powerful, wealthy business interests that profit from human misery. however, the risk assessment is uncontroversial, which is why in many member states there is a need not so much for a national children's study, which is limited to a re-evaluation of the risk, but for immediate corrective action, both to minimise and above all to eliminate the source of the hazardous emissions, which will allow for the real saving of human health and life. an effective monitoring system in the form of regional screening panels and local prevention programmes is needed. the plan should focus more on protecting the environment, including the local environment, and on establishing a european agency for toxic substances and a register of diseases, whose task, following the american model, would be to serve the citizens of the european union by using scientific achievements, providing reliable information and responding to public health threats. it seems that the european agency for toxic substances and disease registry should complement the european centre for disease prevention and control and should work with the european environment agency. thank you, sir.
on behalf of a political group. madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to congratulate mr. gross on his job. i think your work will pay off for a long time. at the same time, i would like to point out that (perhaps because of the nature of the european parliament as an institution of the european union) we often tend to make unnecessary regulations, to over-interpret things, to make simple and obvious things unnecessarily complicated. today, in many european countries, there are already very good driving licences (including in my country, poland) with many safeguards - a driving licence that has already effectively supplanted the paper licence. the training system is also getting better, and we're learning a lot from each other. that is why i am concerned today to see that once again many citizens in the countries of the european union will have to go through the hell of changing their driving licence. i think the introduction of the chips and the frequently planned change of driving license by you will cause unnecessary costs and also take time from citizens who dream of everything but not to be issued in the offices that issue this document. i also wanted to say, in conclusion, that administrative restrictions on the acquisition and issuing of driving licences to foreigners are, in my view, contrary to the essence of the principle of free movement of citizens, because let's distinguish between those who have committed a crime in their own country and are looking for a new driving licence in another country, and people who live somewhere on the border and would rather choose a better, cheaper school on the other side of the border.
member of the commission. i thank the honourable member for her addition. what is in the services directive does not change in any way the problem to which the honourable member has alluded, and the commission is indeed aware of the relevant legal framework in greece. the commission is in contact with the authorities there and is currently examining the whole situation.
member of the commission. as far as the freedom to provide services is concerned, the commission has been made aware of problems encountered by companies from the new member states who post their workers to the netherlands. a number of complaints have been received. the commission is presently looking into the matter to ensure that the freedom to provide services as provided for under article 49 of the treaty is respected and any unjustified obstacles are removed. the commission is not aware of instances in which polish firms operating in italy, germany or other member states may have been discriminated against. no such complaints have been lodged with the commission. however, the commission is in the process of writing to the relevant member states to request further information to establish whether breaches of eu rules may have taken place. in light of the information provided, the commission will assess the situation in each member state and decide upon the appropriate steps.
thank you very much, mr president, thank you, mr commissioner. i wanted to inform you that according to the reports we have in poland (which are also government reports), in three eu countries the law still in force, as if it did not take into account the fact that since 1 may we have an enlarged union, treats entrepreneurs from the new member states according to the rules before 1 may 2004. in seven other member states, however, practices are incompatible with the principle of free movement of persons and services and with the pursuit of activities in the eu common market by companies from the new countries, including poland. i shall be happy to provide the commissioner with such examples. thank you, sir.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i thank you for the relevance of your questions. in the revision of the guidelines in april 2004, the sections of the eastern part of the main line between stuttgart, munich, salzburg, vienna, bratislava and budapest were added, namely the sections baudrecourt, strasbourg, stuttgart and the kehl bridge over the rhine, priority project no 17. work between baudrecourt and strasbourg is expected to start around 2010. the kehl bridge, as you have pointed out, planned between strasbourg and appenweier is a major bottleneck, for which the planning priorities of germany and france differed previously. it seems, from a joint statement by the german and french governments, that things can now be planned so that the project will be completed by 2010. i hope, mr president, that we can support this major priority by ensuring the connection between the two member states of france and germany and, through them, between many other states. the whole of europe is interested in this project, and strasbourg is of course also interested.
the commission's vice-president it is certain that, depending on the financial allocations that the union will receive, we will give priority to interconnections. i do not exclude a much more favourable subsidy rate for this type of operation.
commissioner, you mentioned the connection between paris, berlin, bratislava, prague and budapest. is the same route planned for paris-berlin-warsaw and beyond, leading to eastern and northern europe?
mr. chairman, i don't want to, but i have to first refer to mr. piecek's earlier vote. he said that if you don't pass the idiotentest in germany, you can use various tricks to get a driving license in the czech republic, for example. i want to assure you that in the czech republic and poland, the qualification requirements are much higher than just passing the idiotentest. not only for drivers, but also for welders, doctors and nurses, who are so much in demand in the countries of the old european union. now, to the point. mr grosch's report combines two very difficult issues, as we know from experience. on the one hand, it is a drive for standardisation (or harmonisation) and a drive to respect the principle of subsidiarity. the standardisation of the document that is the driving licence is of course necessary, because you cannot expect any police officer anywhere in europe to know all the possible driving licences. but it should not follow the standardisation, and that is an easy temptation, to interfere with the autonomous laws of individual countries, for example on the age of drivers, medical examinations or training systems, and that is what mr grosch has actually succeeded in doing, and i congratulate him on that. but the key issue is the creation of a european database network. without this network, it is not possible to minimise counterfeiting and, consequently, to increase road safety, because it is known that those who cannot obtain a driving licence legally, and therefore are not qualified to drive, and therefore pose a danger to others and to themselves, resort to illegal means. i have heard of the difficulties in the european commission with the introduction of this database and i admit that i cannot understand these difficulties. if we can now shop online, book airline tickets and carry out complex banking transactions without any problems, why does the commission consider it almost a herculean task to create such a system? thank you, sir.
your honour, i would like to draw attention to the violation of human rights in belarus, one of the countries bordering the european union. according to a report on human rights violations in 2004, published online by the independent belarusian citizens' initiative charter 97, about 1,500 people were detained or arrested in belarus for political reasons. some 20 newspapers were closed down, and three opposition politicians were sentenced to several years in prison. the political regime of president lukashenka controls the media and violates fundamental human rights, civil rights and political freedoms. the public is denied the right to independent information and the right to free political parties and freedom of assembly. in february, economic protests also took place in belarus. all indications are that the situation in the country will worsen with the presidential elections due to take place no later than september 2006. this election will be lukashenko's third run for office. it should be remembered that last year's referendum, which did not meet the democratic standards, allowed him to hold this office for life. on the other hand, civil society is awakening in belarus, mainly due to the democratic breakthrough in ukraine. your honour, i say this as a member of parliament from central europe, from solidarity, the trade union which 25 years ago started a peaceful revolution in poland, guided by the idea of human rights. the european parliament cannot accept the creation of a new curtain on the borders of the european union, this time separating a democratic europe in which citizens can develop in all respects from an authoritarian europe in which our political regimes violate basic human rights. we must remember that in belarus the flag of the european union has become a symbol of freedom and hope for a better world. we must keep in mind the young people who on valentine's day distributed blue ribbons with gold stars in the streets of belarusian cities. today, the heart of europe is beating in minsk, and the fate of democracy on the european continent is being decided.
in writing. 'the establishment of a community body to ensure some coordination of the work of national fisheries inspectors is a useful initiative. the key issue, however, is the scope of the powers of the institution and its task. i cannot support the draft council regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. another aspect of the common fisheries policy is the protection of marine resources. the lisbon strategy states that sustainable development means taking account of both the environmental and social factors of development. by protecting the resources of the seas, we also protect the people who live in them. overly ambitious conservation plans that provide for short periods of recovery, as is the case for cod stocks in the eastern baltic, should be reviewed. the period adopted is causing too drastic social tensions". the other one is anna fotyga.
the agenda for the meeting includes a continuation of the debate on the council and commission statement on the 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights (geneva, 14 march-25 april 2005).
acting president of the council. mr president, first of all i would like to apologize for being a few minutes late. on human rights, i believe that what has been emphasized by the various speakers in your parliament is very widely shared by the council. i would just like to take a few points and try to comment on them. i think we can all agree that the un commission on human rights is not the perfect place and that there are many criticisms of the commission. nevertheless, it must be admitted that it is ultimately the only multilateral forum in which human rights can be discussed on a truly global scale, even if difficulties sometimes arise. it is therefore clear that the european union must work to improve the functioning of this committee. we must play an active role in its reform, in its functioning, and i think that in the context of reform of the united nations and of the multilateral system in general, this is an extremely important point. we also know that the management of human rights issues in different countries is sometimes part of a long process. we cannot achieve quick results, so we need to diversify our approaches, working on different tables. i will take three examples which have been mentioned at length in your parliament. iran, for example. of course, we can have a policy of confrontation with iran over human rights, with results that remain extremely doubtful. but human rights in the general process of negotiations - and god knows we are discussing extremely sensitive and important things with this country - are not being left out. they're very important. i had the opportunity last week to meet the foreign minister of iran and we talked about human rights in a very concrete way. there has been a clear call for the group discussing human rights in iran to be reactivated and for the human rights dialogue with iran to be resumed as part of the overall relations that we want to establish with that country. i have a certain hope that iran will agree to reactivate this group. this country has tried, for example, to obtain in return that there be no initiatives within the echr. i don't think we can grant that request; there's no deal to be made. but what is important is that we have a dialogue with a country like iran. china was mentioned. i believe that the human rights dialogue with china is an extremely important aspect of our relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we know that we're not going to change, change, upset the chinese system overnight. there is patient work to be done, but when we look a little at the situation in other parts of the world, we see that this hard, gradual, but constant work on human rights can be fruitful and produce results, and there are enough examples to demonstrate this. the last example i would like to mention is zimbabwe. it's a sad, dramatic story. it's not the only one in africa, there are others. however, in zimbabwe we have taken sanctions which i would not call too lenient, as someone has done. these are real sanctions. we even went so far as to cancel a summit between europe and africa because of zimbabwe, because we did not want the president of zimbabwe to be present at that meeting. it is not a soft and complacent attitude towards that country. but we have put this country under strict observation with regard to the elections that are to be held there. i think we have little hope that these elections will take place under good democratic conditions. it will therefore be necessary to decide how we are to pursue our relations with this important country, and other examples in africa should be mentioned in this connection. belarus was also mentioned. we have taken sanctions against belarus, a country that has isolated itself a bit. the question is always whether, in the field of human rights, we should isolate ourselves or at least try to maintain a minimum of dialogue, particularly to help those who are the first victims of restrictions on freedom and human rights. in conclusion, i believe that europe has a real, constant, active, but also diversified approach to this aspect of human rights, and we do not make this aspect a secondary priority, as some have said. i believe we want to play an important role and take a more comprehensive approach to human rights. some more specific rights, particularly in relation to transnational companies, have been mentioned, which is why i believe that a more innovative but multilateral approach to human rights is needed. i believe that europe must lead the way, along with others, but it must do so to advance this cause.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that human rights do indeed play and must play a very important role not only at the 61st conference but, of course, in general. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case at every summit or meeting we have with the various countries. for example, at the meeting with china in december last year we discussed the human rights issue at length and we hope that china will ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights. i think it is just as important that these issues are always on the agenda at our bilateral meetings. as my colleague in the council has said, it is indeed the case. the same applies to our new neighbourhood policy, which president yushchenko has expressed reservations about today. i have to tell you that i don't agree and i told him that in ukraine. the neighbourhood policy we have designed is a gradual policy, but one which can bring countries closer together. ukraine is much closer to the european union in the field of human rights and in many other areas. i am grateful to the members for their interest. i am also pleased to hear that a delegation of members of parliament will be going to geneva for the human rights commission meeting next month to facilitate contacts. the position expressed by mrs flautre, that our dialogue with a country is not incompatible with action at the united nations, is a position fully shared by the commission and the council. that is why we have always made it clear that we would oppose - and have done so - motions to prevent a vote on a resolution. china is the case. the no-vote motion is part of the procedures of the commission on human rights, but unfortunately sometimes it prevents us from working together. i wish to continue in english. i have listened with great interest to the comments about the situation of women, journalists and others in several countries. it is very important that the commission is active on human rights issues. let me say that the issue of human rights at the united nations was also mentioned in the debate today. we must look at the new ideas proposed by the different experts to the un panel. there are some very interesting ideas. one concerns the universalisation of membership of the un commission on human rights or, in the longer term, even the creation of a fully-fledged human rights council. this is a very interesting idea and i feel we should support it. the commission is contributing to the internal reflection on all these issues. it is still rather early in the process, as we are waiting for the report by the secretary-general, mr kofi annan, which will be submitted sometime around march. however, i am convinced that the creation of a new human rights council would strengthen the credibility of the un in terms of human rights. however, we must ensure that any un reform process promotes respect for human rights, the promotion of humanitarian law, the rule of law and democracy, all of which are at the core of our un peacebuilding response. if we think of iraq, we know that this is important. finally, it is important that we improve the efficiency of the whole human rights machinery. the first speaker in the debate today, mr ribeiro e castro, mentioned the broad scope of threats we face - for example, terrorism, international organized crime, trafficking, etc. i want to tell him that he is absolutely right that we must tackle these threats. he has our full support. i see these threats and the countermeasures to tackle them as a part of the human security concept. this is a comprehensive concept of understanding of individual security, where, importantly, there are hard and soft threats. the idea of freedom from need and freedom from fear are also important and both have to be eliminated.
as a result of the debate, i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). see the minutes. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the statement by the council and the commission on the elections in moldova.
acting president of the council. mr president, i am very grateful to parliament, on behalf of the council presidency, for the great attention you are paying to the elections which are about to take place in moldova. the presidency is constantly and closely following the political situation in the country, and in particular the preparations for and the conduct of the elections on 6 march. the moldovan parliamentary elections will be observed by the osce. the moldovan government invited international observers well in advance and i hope that members of the european parliament will also take part in this observation mission. as a future neighbour of the european union, moldova is of great importance to us. as you are aware, there are some concerns about the electoral process, particularly with regard to the situation of the media and the treatment of the opposition. the european union has already discussed all these issues with the moldovan government last autumn, during a visit by the troika. we have clearly reaffirmed that democratic practices must be respected and that elections must be free and fair. more recently, the european union issued a statement on the elections, the main points of which are as follows: the european union has reminded moldova that its relations with the union will depend on its commitment to common values. this morning we have been talking a lot about values and democracy in the mediterranean context, and president yushchenko has in a way given us a great lesson in democracy and values. it is therefore important that this country should join europe in this field too. the european union calls on the moldovan authorities to ensure that the elections take place in an open and fair atmosphere, that media coverage of the campaign is pluralistic and impartial, and that the state administration remains neutral towards all candidates and their supporters. the union also called on the authorities to ensure that expatriate votes are dealt with in an adequate and impartial manner. the eu also called on the moldovan government to take into account the concerns raised by the osce needs assessment mission and to implement the joint recommendations made by the osce and the venice commission in 2004. last but not least, the issue was discussed at the eu-moldova cooperation council meeting in brussels on 22 february. democratic reforms and the holding of free and fair elections are also important components of the eu-moldova action plan adopted by the cooperation council under the european neighbourhood policy. it also includes the issue of human rights in the context of our neighbourhood policy, which was emphasized by the commissioner. i can assure you, mr president, that the council presidency will be following closely the electoral process in moldova, which is an important step for the european future of that country. it is a choice that is incumbent on this country to show that it is ready to join the european family one day.
member of the commission. mr president, yesterday we had a eu cooperation council in which the new neighbourhood policy and the action plan for moldova was adopted. we also had an excellent frank and open dialogue in which i personally participated. as my colleague pointed out, we clearly said that if moldova really wants to get closer to the european union then it is very important for it to also demonstrate that interest. i think that the elections which are to be held very soon, on 6 march, will be an excellent moment to show what is really going on. moldova really has to promote respect for human rights. it has to promote and empower civil society, it has to strengthen the independence of the media, and it has to ensure better follow-up of the council of europe's recommendations. i said all of that to them personally. we all agree that a vibrant democracy, a respect for the rule of law, an independent judiciary and a free and independent media are necessary if it wants to promote the stability and prosperity of the country. since independence in 1991, moldova has had a rather good record of free and fair elections. the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and odihr, the office for democratic institutions and human rights, confirmed in its report on moldova that the last two parliamentary elections did indeed meet international standards. to moldova's credit very few elections in the newly independent states had been assessed in such a positive way. however, the osce's assessment of local elections since 2001 have reported that, unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated. the organisation noted shortcomings in the context of local government elections held in may and june 2003, including abuse of administrative resources, heavy bias of state media in favour of the incumbents and the arrest of prominent candidates. reports on the october 2002 elections for the governor of gagauzia, an autonomous territorial unit, also noted similar shortcomings. in the run-up to the 2005 parliamentarian elections we are concerned that one of the joint recommendations, made by the oece and council of europe venice commission, for improvements to the election legislation and administration have not really been completely implemented. other reasons for concern include also the apparent lack of confidence in the central election commission, problems with the accuracy of voter registers, reported abuse of the administrative resources by the authorities, control by the ruling party and government of the public media, and pressure on the private media. in addition, up to one fourth of moldova's population might not be able to cast their votes. this includes moldovan citizens living abroad, or in transnistria. yesterday we heard from the government that there had also been some disturbances in the electoral process coming from outside the country. that is how they described it and i think we have to ensure that we observe these elections very carefully. as a result, the commission has given funding for 25 specially named commissioners for this election observation, going into the osce/odihr mission. it is important to know that this will not be an easy task and we should remain very vigilant. i also welcome the visit to moldova in january of the secretary-general of the council of europe, mr terry davis, and the launch of the osce's election observation mission. i shall take this opportunity to reaffirm our support for the very good work of this council of europe and osce support team. we are in regular contact with our mission and, as i said, we are contributing eur 50 000. this was mentioned again yesterday. i think the moldovan delegation that wants to move towards europe has shown great interest in trying to comply with the standards, but there is also some concern about the influences that might come from outside. again, i hope that parliament, together with the commission, follows events very closely as it may prove crucial to do so.
on behalf of a political group. mr president, it is good that the european parliament is dealing with the affairs of moldova today, because moldova is a small country and somewhat forgotten by europe. it is a land of rich history - a land of clashing national and state interests, cultural, religious, as well as economic and political differences. where moldova meets east and west, christianity and islam, there have historically been the interests of different rulers and powers. the current situation in moldova is also difficult and complex. we must remember that this is a country that after the collapse of the soviet union experienced a tragic war in transnistria. this conflict is still not definitively over. today, moldova faces many economic and social problems. stability in this sensitive region is needed for the good of our entire continent. it can only be ensured by full democracy, the rule of law, respect for human and civil rights. democracy cannot be imposed, it can only be supported, and that is our duty to moldova today. the elections on 6 march will be an important test of how far democratization has progressed, how far the common good has prevailed over private interests. the elections will determine the success of moldova in addressing its most important economic, educational and social challenges. the elections could mark the beginning of a new stage in the development and thus the implementation of the strategy for future membership of the european union adopted last year. they will also bring new challenges for the council, the commission and the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in one year, nine months and eight days, moldova's neighbour, romania, will become a member of the european union. so when we talk about the political situation in moldova, let us remember that we are talking about democracy or the lack of democracy in a country that will soon be a neighbour of the union. in the context of iraq and iran, if we consider that they are the neighbours of the european union after turkey joins in about 20 years, we have to be even more interested in the current neighbours of the union, such as ukraine, belarus or soon moldova. the elections in moldova, which will take place in 11 days, will not be fully credible if they are not preceded by a fair election campaign. she's not here yet, she's not here yet. meanwhile, elections without campaigning are like fish without water, so we need to judge the moldovan authorities not only by how they follow the procedures on election day, but also by whether they guarantee a normal campaign. at the same time, let us remember that the elections in this country have - whether we like it or not - an international context.
acting president of the council. mr president, i think we should pay tribute to president lula's initiative on action against hunger and poverty, which is the reason for the oral question by the honourable members. this initiative has not been without effect. there is a real awareness, first of all, that poverty and hunger in the world are a real scandal and, secondly, that they pose a permanent threat to stability and normal development. we have had a lot of talk this morning and this afternoon about democracy in the developing world. the initiative launched by tony blair, the g8 presidency, to make poverty history, is part of this approach and we had a debate some time ago on the alleviation, or even the cancellation, of the debt of the poorest countries. so now this initiative of president lula, joined by other heads of state, must be followed by concrete actions. it is true that at this stage the council has not yet adopted its position on innovative sources of finance for aid to developing countries. however, you may have noticed that there are a number of ideas that have been put forward, that are being discussed and that are no longer taboo. the taxation of kerosene is no longer a taboo subject, but is one of the ways being explored to find new sources of financing to fight poverty more effectively. the search for these innovative sources of finance is one of the eight commitments defined by the european council in barcelona in 2002 to put the monterrey consensus into practice. in barcelona, the member states of the european union affirmed their willingness to collectively make a series of eight commitments, known as the barcelona commitments, which are to be considered as so many different parts of the european union's action to achieve the millennium development goals with the aim of eradicating poverty. god knows that for many countries, and particularly sub-saharan africa, we are still a long way from these goals, for example, in terms of access to water, access to education, access to decent food. in its conclusions of 27 april 2004, the council, taking note of the work in progress in the member states on innovative sources of funding, encouraged the member states and the commission to examine the possibility of agreement on the various proposals under discussion. in this context, he stressed the important role of public-private partnerships. at its meeting in june 2004, the european council reaffirmed that the european union would intensify its efforts to meet the commitments made in monterrey, in particular by seeking innovative sources of finance, as i have already mentioned. furthermore, at its last meeting in december 2004, the european council confirmed that the european union was fully committed to the millennium development goals and to ensuring that progress was made towards their achievement, including by exploring new financing options on the basis of proposals presented by the commission for the 2005 high level meeting. the time for acts has come, the time for proposals has come, and i think the council is now waiting for the commission to come forward with proposals, hoping that they will go a little off the beaten track and really bring something new.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to tell mr barón crespo and mrs morgantini that i think that president lula's initiative is very important and very relevant. my colleague louis michel, who is working on this particular matter, is apologizing today, and i would like to take this question of course to him. the commission has set out the basic concepts, the quartet's views on the new financial sources and the reasons for this. the millennium development goals are to be achieved by a significant increase in financing and in particular in public development aid. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the aid to the following areas: however, as the weltbank report on the development committee states, the easiest and most effective way to increase the share of development aid in national budgets is to increase the funds. the european union has already taken this step in fulfilment of the obligations entered into in 2002 in barcelona and will continue to do so, possibly at an increased pace. we will consider my colleague louis michel will bring this to the commission, then it will be discussed and then it will be considered , concrete proposals to be made, and zwar im rahmen der zeit bei der kommission in vorbereitung stehenden mitteilung im anschluss an die konferenz von monterrey und auch in connection with a consolidated projekt für die konferenz zur revision der millenniumsziele im september 2005. i personally find the innovative proposals currently available, such as the global marshall plan, very interesting and we naturally also participate in the various discussions in the various bodies. at the same time, this should not be a pretext for terminating the obligations entered into in monterrey either on the long side or on the lower side. the commitments must be reaffirmed and new ones added.
on behalf of a political group. thank you, signor presidente, for the password. madam commissioner, mr minister, my dear colleagues, i will speak in my own language, which is polish. ladies and gentlemen, we have a noble purpose to help poor countries. sometimes the money you give doesn't work. as a representative of the academy, of the education that the commissioner mentioned earlier, i would like to draw your attention to one thing. and that is, my research to date shows that of those who come from poor countries to study at good european universities and american and other universities to do a master's or a doctorate, not much more than 30 percent of them go back to their own countries of origin. on the one hand, we're helping individuals, one or the other, but for a poor country, it's no help at all, and the point is that when these people come back, as educated technologists in agriculture, in education and in every field, they're the elite and the engines of the economy. it's one way to reduce hunger and poverty. in connection with what we are discussing here, i once had the opportunity to exchange a few words with commissioner michel and i think we agree on a proposal, if it could be implemented, to set aside a certain amount in the budget to help those who return to a poor country to be able to adapt (re-adapt) to poverty during this transitional period before they find a suitable place according to their competence. it's going to be a big help, and so the extension of the scholarships and financial aid that we offer to them to come here and study with us. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we don't need these doctors from mali, from congo as much here - we have our own, and they are very much needed there, so i very much support this proposal. if necessary, i will prepare it with the data and present it to the development committee as a proposal to the commission. i would like to draw the attention of the house and the commissioner to this matter. thank you, sir.
i also share the opinion of the authors of the oral question, and forgive me if i am not going to say something on the subject, but i am moved by the subject of this debate to inform the council and the commission of the frequent cases of extreme poverty and destitution in poland and perhaps in other countries of the union. the union has recently been expanding to include poorer countries. in december, one of my constituents, invited to visit the european parliament in brussels, informed me that in his village there were cases where children could not go to school because they had no shoes, let alone school supplies. the minimum social security benefit in poland is between eur 10 and eur 100 per month, and the minimum wage is eur 212. couldn't a fund for eu citizens be created along the lines of this fund, or could the member states be obliged to pay at least €250 a month to people in need? thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, any initiative that aims to reduce poverty and hunger is worthy of support. the rich countries and transnational organisations with significant financial resources, including the european union, have a particular responsibility in this respect. to effectively reduce hunger, a proper spending hierarchy in global budgets is necessary. priority should be given to actions to promote a broadly-based family policy so that every person has a decent living and development. unfortunately, large sums of money continue to be squandered, being spent on targets that directly and indirectly affect the family, the weakest and the poorest. the instrumental treatment of the poor and backward regions by the modern powers through demonstrative, pretended aid actions to expand their sphere of influence is reprehensible. it is shameful to enslave poor nations through a usurious financial system. dear members, in the fight against hunger and poverty, may the teaching of the holy father john paul ii be an inspiration and a strength for us: 'millions of our brothers and sisters suffer from hunger, and many of them die of hunger, especially children. in an age of unprecedented technological advancement, the drama of hunger is a great challenge and a great accusation. after all, the earth has enough resources to feed all mankind. why, then, do millions of people today go hungry? what is needed here, on a global scale, is some serious examination of conscience, of social justice, of elementary solidarity between people. it is fitting to recall the basic truth: the earth is god's, and all its riches god has placed in the hands of man to be used in a just way for the good of all. it is the same law of nature. we cannot fail to cry out in solidarity for bread on behalf of all those who suffer from hunger. we address this call first to god, but also to the political and economic actors who have the responsibility for the equitable distribution of wealth on a global and national scale. we must put an end to the scourge of hunger. let solidarity take the place of unbridled profit. each of us bears some responsibility for this unjust situation. we all have our share of hunger and poverty. let us share our bread with those who have none. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against hunger, and the european union is committed to supporting the fight against hunger. in poland, more than 5 million people are already living in extreme poverty. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the role of the new member states of the european union in implementing development cooperation. i am pleased to see that some of the new member states have recently increased their budgetary expenditure on development policy significantly. on the other hand, the knowledge of the people of these countries about development cooperation is very limited. many people believe that aid is all about humanitarian aid. the noble impulses and selflessness of people in the face of natural disasters and humanitarian crises are commendable, but it is important that people understand that the strategic goal is to eliminate extreme poverty and hunger. i think it is worthwhile to make the people of the new member states aware that the poverty that exists in european countries is a different kind of poverty from that which exists in the poorest countries of the world. it is true that there are 5 million families in poland who have to survive on the equivalent of 2.5 euros per person per day. however, 2.5 euros in poland is much more than 2.5 euros in the poorest countries of the world. why would you do that? well, because in poland, the vast majority of women and men have access to water, electricity, gas, roads, education, health care, social care. the gap between the technical and social infrastructure of the new member states of the union and that of the poorest countries is much wider than is commonly believed. the dissemination of knowledge on development cooperation in the new member states is a task of such importance that the council, the commission, the european parliament and the governments of the member states should all be committed to achieving it to the best of their ability. i know commissioner michel sees the point. poland is a country where solidarity and the implementation of the idea of solidarity, which began 25 years ago, have brought enormous positive changes in the economic, political and social spheres. it was lech walesa who always said that people need fishing rods, not just fish. and in the fight against hunger and extreme poverty in the world, we should remember that in addition to emergency aid, we should always build local capacity. this will enable the world's poorest people to help themselves, and we will avoid what scientists call the "modernization of dependence".
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i'd like to thank the people who initiated this debate. we are facing a serious problem which has affected many textile factories in my country, in poland, but also throughout the union. it's not about the last few weeks or months. in fact, we've been dealing with an asian invasion of cheap materials since the 1990s. if it was just a question of free markets, cheaper products, cheaper labour, it would be hard to protest when the european union itself is preaching the principle of free markets. meanwhile, the non-european textile powers are not playing by the rules. and the ones they accepted when they joined the wto. in this situation, the european union must organize itself and defend polish, french, german - all companies from the whole european union against - let us say it plainly - unfair competition.
mr president, commissioner, research and innovation are the key instruments for implementing the lisbon strategy. the seventh framework programme offers a unique opportunity to tap the intellectual potential of the 450 million citizens of the european union, including almost 80 million of its new citizens from the new member states, to do this better than in the past. the seventh framework programme is intended to accelerate european integration. it should take into account not only the necessary substantial increase in budgetary resources, but also their effective use. this will only be possible if other than the current innovative methods of implementing european science policy are developed. the main aim is to change the criteria for allocating funds, which will allow the construction of scientific workshops at the place where the researchers work. central and eastern european scholars do not want to be an addition, and sometimes only a fifth wheel on the wagon, to the programmes run by the so-called centres of excellence, as is the case in the current sixth framework programme. two questions therefore arise: is the concept of 'perfection' not being misused here as a kind of spell to justify an unequal distribution of resources later on? i hope it's not just perfection in making and spending money. and the second question: what are the objective criteria for the allocation of budgetary resources in the seventh framework programme? thank you, sir. (laughter)
mr. president, every now and then, the world experiences a major natural disaster that we are unable to predict or prevent. it reminds us how small we are in the face of nature. it reminds us that sometimes animals are better at sensing danger and preparing for it than we are. all of this is to remind us not to be too wise, too self-righteous, too sure of our own abilities. there is a force above us that reminds us of our smallness from time to time, that makes us humble. the world's response to the tsunami disaster was a great sacrifice by private, governmental and institutional actors. can we use this sacrifice to the fullest, to bring it to where it is really needed? at first, they needed everything: water, food, tents, blankets. the world has certainly had experience in delivering these items quickly, and help has been swift to reach the victims. worse, with long-term care, we find human smallness. where there is money, there are jackals who want to steal something for themselves, and we have problems: how to distribute the money, what to rebuild first, through which institutions to transfer the funds, through which people, who can be trusted. the tsunami destroyed the coastal economy, the beach economy. the tourism industry is the main one, including sex tourism, for which many of the affected regions are famous, but also fishing. and now the question is, how much of the money from human sacrifice are we going to use to rebuild sex tourism, social services, massage parlors and brothels? can we assure donors that their money will not be used for such purposes? today we're discussing a project to give fishing boats to fishermen whose workshops were destroyed by the tsunami. it's the best form of help we can give. we in the european union pay fishermen to scrap their boats. if they are still fit for work, let's give them to the injured fishermen in the tsunami-hit areas. if the cost of equipping these boats and others is small, then that's where we should direct our aid. i'm sure the donors will be happy to do so. this project deserves support, but it's a drop in the bucket. let's move on - let the relief funds go to the production of fishing boats according to the specific needs of the tsunami victims. there's going to be a problem again, who's going to benefit from these orders, from this production. if possible, the countries that are affected should benefit, secondly the donor countries, but this must be combined with the minimum earnings of the producers who have to give up their profits. let us also rebuild the other sectors of the devastated coastal economy, shellfish, clams and other crops, but let us be careful that the aid does not go to the tourist industry, especially the one that preys on human weakness. thank you, sir.
mr president, commissioner, in january this year, the european commission and parliament, in the context of transnational solidarity, made a lightning decision to provide enormous financial support and assistance to the victims of the tsunami. one of the gestures of non-financial assistance is the donation of used boats to tsunami victims - fishermen who have lost not only their families and loved ones, but also their homes and tools. when we voted for this resolution in the european parliament on tuesday morning, none of us had any doubts. it's a natural response of the heart and solidarity. but the question is: will the commission maintain the guaranteed compensation for all, and to what extent will this be reflected in the additional costs in the european union budget allocated to this purpose, and why does it want to shift some of the costs to national budgets? will european fishermen who have chosen to give up their jobs receive the promised compensation guaranteed by the union? are the companies and steelworks that had signed contracts to scrap the ships and incurred the organisational costs given any chance of being compensated and will jobs be maintained under the previously established scheme? should the commission not consider not only the transfer of old ships but also the aid for the construction of new ports and shipyards in the countries affected by the tsunami? thank you very much. thank you.
thank you, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, i am introducing a last-minute amendment for which i would like to apologise, but i believe it is an important amendment which can help to make good law for millions of citizens of the european union. paragraph 7 has two parts. at the end of the first part of the paragraph, i propose that the following paragraph be added: 'in accordance with the decisions of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament of 2 february 2005 and of the conference of presidents of 17 february 2005'. i now read the full text of the first part of the seventh paragraph, as amended: 'the commission is requested to reconsider its proposal for a software patent directive in accordance with the decisions of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament of 2 february 2005 and the conference of presidents of 17 february 2005'. the second part of the paragraph is thus unchanged. thank you, sir.
in writing. despite my deep sympathy for the victims of this unimaginable disaster, i voted against the council's regulation. i cannot accept that: 1) no cost estimates have been made for this project, and preliminary analysis indicates that they could be gigantic; 2) old boats will be sent to be scrapped, that is, they no longer meet the basic safety requirements. this is more or less the same situation as we experienced in poland during the 1997 floods, when victims were sometimes sent completely destroyed, unsuitable for wearing clothing,3. these european boats were built for conditions that were completely different from those in the countries affected by the tsunami,4. the signals that we receive clearly indicate that sri lanka and the philippines, for example, do not want such help at all. for these and other reasons, i believe that the sending of some 150 boats is intended to appease the conscience of europe. it's supposed to be symbolic. but this is not about symbols. this is about real help. the council regulation is unfortunately flawed in this respect.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is faced with a very difficult problem, because on the one hand it cannot wait to take a stand and we are doing it today, we want to take a stand today, and on the other hand we do not have a full understanding of the reasons for the coup d'état carried out by the king in nepal. and it would be good to know the reasons, because if we delay in knowing the reasons, then it turns out that our intervention will be too late, and a quick intervention is necessary. the king has said that he wants to fight the maoist guerilla more effectively, but on the other hand he has closed the tibet aid office, as mr mann has just said. the office has been closed and aid to tibet, which is supposed to strengthen tibet's resistance to chinese aggression, has been cut off, so the reasons given by the king seem rather suspect. the european parliament must act quickly, because acting too late does not achieve what we want - it does not deter further criminal activity. i think we should be reassured by the more vigorous diplomatic steps that other countries have taken. we know that the united states and india, among others, have taken such steps. india is a neighbor, so maybe they have some reasons for taking these diplomatic steps -- reasons that might not be entirely our reasons if we knew them. and the reaction of other countries, including the united states, should give us confidence that this is the position we should take. the king has suspended all laws. of course, we remember the tragedy that happened to the royal family just a few years ago, but since that tragedy, the legitimacy of the royal power has not been questioned in the international world and in international organizations. so we have to consider two things: on the one hand, the reasons, which are, as i said, unclear but questionable, and here i repeat what mr mann said: it is true that the suspension of aid to tibet is something we cannot agree to, just as we cannot agree to the suspension of civil rights, to arrests, to the closure of the press, to the complete restriction of freedom of speech. so our intervention is fully justified and the resolution should be adopted. the european parliament's swift response will hopefully contribute, along with the actions of other countries in the world, to the normalisation of the situation in tibet. thank you very much, mr. chairman.
on behalf of a political group. thank you very much. thank you. the events of recent weeks have forced the european parliament to debate the growing problem of human rights violations in nepal over the years. the kingdom of nepal, sandwiched between india and china, is increasingly dependent on china, its main trading partner, but also the inspiration for the maoist guerrillas who are fighting to overthrow the constitutional monarchy and establish a communist state. the civil war in the country has already claimed over 12,000 lives and its political situation is very complicated, but we don't know the full extent of it because of the information blockade, because after the prime minister was removed, the king and the nepalese army took power with the suspension of basic constitutional rights, freedom of association, freedom of speech, the right to information, privacy, property, and the prohibition of unlawful deprivation of liberty. the king has banned the publication of opinions on radio, television, the internet, because they were critical of the security service. censorship and repression continue. the nepalese authorities have also failed to respect the rights of refugees by closing the office of the dalai lama's representative and the tibetan refugee aid office, which has been helping tibetans who have been persecuted for their faith. every year, 2,500 people flee tibet under chinese rule to practice their religion and learn in their native language. feeling increasingly insecure, more and more tibetans are looking to leave the country. in violation of domestic and international law, the government of nepal is extraditing tibetans to china, who are being deported to china, imprisoned and mistreated in an incredibly cruel manner. international humanitarian organizations accuse both sides, both the government and the maoist rebels, of committing atrocities against the civilian population. the current debate in the european parliament is an opportunity to show the roots of the conflict, which lie in the insane totalitarian, communist and atheistic ideology which, by denying god, objectifies man, trampling on his dignity and violating his rights. in nepal, where two out of every 23 million people are illiterate and the society is still based on the caste system, there is a need for education, for better living conditions, not for a civil war to impose a destructive communist system. the only way forward is to raise the profile of the conflict and to insist and demand through diplomatic channels, including through a european parliament resolution, that the nepalese authorities put an end to the unlawful arrests and other abuses and protect human rights activists, journalists and political leaders from them. previously, public pressure had led to a reduction in repression. it should also be considered whether eu aid is being used properly for development and humanitarian purposes. but it also requires intervention. i would like to end by quoting the words of the holy father, john xxiii, who wrote: 'a threat to the family is a threat to the state, and similarly a threat to the social order in one state is a threat to the international order.' thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. chairman. ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have spoken very competently about the internal situation in nepal, about the lack of democracy in that country, about the history of that country. i wanted to draw attention to another aspect: the lack of media freedom, especially after february 1, 2005. censorship, the firing of journalists, their arrest, often without notifying their families, are facts. the government also banned private radio stations, which resulted in the loss of 800 jobs. because many nepalese are illiterate, the radio ban has cut off their access to news - they now only have access to the bbc. add to that the raid on the editorial board and the censorship of the material. this is a photograph of the current situation in nepal. let's not look at this photograph casually.
ladies and gentlemen! the real integration of the peoples of europe is possible only on the basis of truth. as the recent tragedy of the victims of the german camp at auschwitz shows, not all people find this truth comfortable and easy to accept. today i am pointing out to you a white spot in modern european history: 65 years ago, the polish people experienced firsthand the criminal hitler-stalin coalition, whose aim was the physical liquidation of the polish state and the poles and the subjugation of europe. on february 10, 1940, the soviet aggressors began the inhuman deportation of polish families to siberia - the golgotha of the east. ripped from their homes in the dead of winter night, children, women, old men were herded into cattle cars, only to be driven to slave labor camps after weeks of a deadly journey through the 40-degree frost of "unhuman land". those who survived the transport were to face years of humiliation, hunger, disease and homesickness. 1,500,000 innocent people were deported in this way, just because they were poles. this lawlessness continued after the war during the soviet occupation of poland. most of my countrymen did not survive these genocidal deportations. my european brothers, do you know this story? do they teach it in european schools? if we want to build a peaceful future for our nations, we must also stand up for the truth against... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. on behalf of myself and the green initiative association, i would like to draw your attention to the potential for environmental damage in the lower oder river, on the polish-german border between the cities of szczecin and schwedt. at this point, it is planned to rebuild (widen, deepen) the canal, which can degrade and probably degrades, will destroy the lower oder valley international park. knowing these plans, i'm convinced that this canal will destroy local peatlands, disrupt water relations, destroy natural breeding grounds for birds. i am convinced that in this place and in this time there cannot be a shortage of people who will fight to protect the environment from destruction. (laughter)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the european investment bank should and must work closely with the european central bank and the european commission, but it should also have clear priorities. if the union is to be truly integrated, not only politically but also practically, logistically, the transeuropean networks must be financed. but also, if the european economy is to grow, the european investment bank must support more the small business sector, the social economy sector and the so-called local services, which is particularly important for demographic reasons. the fundamental thing is to level the playing field when it comes to loans. some member states receive relatively little - especially those that should receive more in the area of small business. to this end, the european investment bank needs to streamline its administrative structures and increase access to it for local financial partners and small businesses. all structures associated with the union, especially financial structures, must be transparent. unfortunately, we hear (paragraph 21 of the motion for a resolution) about conflicts of interest among the people running the investment bank. it's a bad idea - it needs to be cut because it creates a bad image of the ebi. thank you, sir.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the debate on the report (a6-0038/2005) by mr ingo schmitt, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on a community air traffic controller licence (com ((2004) 0473 - c6-0076/2004 - 2004/0146 (co (())).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, members of the house, members of the commission! the issues raised by the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the community air traffic controller licence are among the most important in the field of civil aviation safety. where the problem is one of potential danger to human life and health, neither non-violence nor arbitrary procedures and actions can be allowed. in this context, i consider the directive to be necessary, indeed essential. the treatment of our airspace as a single european airspace requires precise, unambiguous legislation also for the licensing of air traffic controllers. the work of these people must be carried out with the highest of responsibilities and professionalism. this is a question of professional preparation for work under normal conditions (as if they always occurred) and in emergency situations that may arise. an air traffic controller must therefore be a man of great theoretical knowledge and great practical skill. it must be a person in full physical and mental health (hence the need for time-based checks), a person who is self-controlled and able to cope with emergencies - accidents and terrorism, as my predecessors have said. language skills: of course, a very good command of english as a common language, but also, and especially in relation to potential crisis situations, a knowledge of the local language. i believe that there needs to be a kind of feedback loop in these rules, i.e. systematic verification of the legal effects and possible introduction of the necessary adjustments, especially in the context of further development of electronic and digital technology. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ingo schmidt, for his efforts in this area. i say this with appreciation as a person who has contributed to the training of polish civil aviation pilots. until recently, i did this while working at rzeszów university of technology. i would also like to see eu law on this important issue adopted and respected outside the european union. the airspace knows no artificial boundaries, and the laws of aeromechanics apply everywhere. so the rules of aviation safety should be universal. perhaps the european union can help. thank you very much. thank you.
the commission's vice-president mr president, the commission is looking forward with confidence to the position of parliament on this matter and i would like to thank all the speakers who have all highlighted the excellent work done by parliament and paid tribute to the rapporteur, mr schmitt. i think this report is very encouraging and i would like to join in the praise and thanks to the rapporteur from the committee on transport and tourism. i now have to give my opinion on the amendments. i will not go through them one by one, mr president. with your permission, i'll be doing some grouping instead. most of the amendments are aimed at clarifying the text of the proposal for a directive and at emphasizing safety, because safety is really the top priority of this text, or at introducing continuing training in the field of safety. this is the case with amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 15. the commission can therefore accept all these amendments. the same applies to amendment no 16, which makes the conditions for the introduction of national indications more restrictive, and to amendment no 18, which aims to simplify the administrative burden. the commission will be able to support your position on the language arrangements, which balance legitimate security concerns with the rights of free movement of controllers; your amendments nos 10 and 17 bring parliament's and the council's positions into genuine agreement. some other amendments are acceptable in principle, provided that their wording is somewhat modified. the commission fully supports the principle of amendment no 6 concerning the monitoring, involvement and consultation of the social partners. i have already stressed this in my first speech. as regards amendment no 14, the commission accepts the idea of increased training in the field of security, but considers that this element has more of a place in annex i, which specifies the content of training. the second amendment introduces the reference to the right to work in the event of mobility. i fully understand the logic behind amendment no 20. the legal basis for such a proposal is, however, safety, an objective pursued through the establishment of standards for the essential safety requirements. i would like to say, as mr savary has said, that there is already community law on this subject. the directive on the posting of workers provides that the conditions of the workplace apply in the case of posting. the commission would therefore be prepared to accept, instead of an article which is not the subject of the text, a recital which explicitly refers, as you requested, to the relevant community law. confirming, as i have just said, the importance of involving the social partners in the implementation and monitoring of this directive, particularly by supporting amendment no 6, i propose to include such a reference to the applicable social law in a recital. in other words, this text, which is essentially focused on security, is set in the context of community social law, which should be recalled in the recitals. there are three amendments which the commission is not in a position to support, mainly for formal reasons. firstly, the commission is of the opinion that there is no need to maintain the requirement of accounting in accordance with international standards, as requested by amendment no 19. continuing training providers, i.e. providers of air traffic control services, are already covered by other community regulations and for small training providers such a requirement seems excessive to us. the commission can therefore accept a complete deletion of the relevant paragraph, since your concern for good management is already covered by other sources of community legislation. on amendment no 21 concerning the wording of the sanctions, the commission prefers to keep the standard formula as it is in fact set out in the general guideline adopted by the council. there is also amendment no 4 which deals with a very important aspect of the introduction of a licence: what to do with holders of a national licence? we do not think that the solution is to postpone the introduction of the new harmonised standards and to have two parallel standards of competence coexist. it would be bad for security. that is why the commission cannot support this amendment. however, it is open to any solution which would favour the rapid introduction of the standards of competence while, of course, respecting the obligations imposed by legal certainty on current licence holders. amendment no 22 was tabled just before the plenary session. as i have said before, the commission supports the consultation and involvement of the social partners, which is essential. more specifically, however, it does not consider that the imposition of such an obligation should necessarily be included in the text. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the commission's general agreement with your work. the commission is indeed in a position to support mr ingo schmitt's report fully and i would add that the positions of the commission and parliament are really very close. the constructive nature of mr ingo schmitt's report is to be emphasized and - i believe it was mr rack who said this earlier - if the original proposal was good, the text is even better. the text is even better, proving once again the value of parliament's role as a co-legislator. so if you support this approach in tomorrow's vote, i believe we will have made progress towards the objectives we all set ourselves: namely, the search for even greater safety in the field of air traffic control. this is what the european citizens expect from us, and this is all the more necessary if we want air traffic to develop in the direction of a very good quality of service, including a level of safety that should make european skies probably the safest skies in the world.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0003/2005) by the committee on employment and social affairs on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community and (eec) no 574/72 on the application of regulation (eec) no 1408/71 (rapporteur: mr de rossa).
the commission's vice-president mr president, the commission welcomes the support for the common position. i would like to stress once again that this common position aims to improve the rights of european citizens travelling within the european union in several respects. mr president, i would like to say that it is a real privilege for european citizens to be able to move around the union in this way, with the solidarity they need in certain cases. this is a real advance. in these circumstances, of course, mrs oomen-ruijten will not make it official. the commission does not support her amendment to reject the common position, because it would jeopardize all the progress made so far by the community legislator on special non-contributory benefits. the proposal will result in dozens of products which until now were not exportable. however, there are still five services in question which have not been accepted as being exportable. amendment no 2 will have the effect that all these benefits will remain in annex iia and will therefore continue to be non-exportable. i sincerely believe that, even if the fate of these five benefits is still uncertain, the agreement reached in the council and the support, which i believe is quite broad, of parliament should enable us, mr president, to make a significant social progress for all european citizens. that is why the commission is keen to see this text adopted.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
i declare the 2004/05 session of the european parliament closed.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the honourable members who have just started a debate on the follow-up to the beijing action programme and its evaluation ten years after its launch. as you know, this issue is currently being discussed at the 49th session of the united nations commission on the status of women. the presidency has already delivered a message, i hope, which gives an overview of the union's commitment to the full and effective implementation of the beijing declaration on action. however, as the work of the session is still in progress, i am not yet in a position to report on the results. today, the european union considers equality between women and men to be a fundamental principle and considers the rights of women and girls to be an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of the universal rights of the human person. the beijing + 10 review is an important moment as it not only allows the union to strengthen its programme and its commitment to the objectives of the beijing action programme, but also provides an opportunity to examine which areas have made progress and where concerted action still needs to be strengthened. the recently published report on progress in the european union under the 'beijing + 10' framework, which was drawn up by the luxembourg presidency, clearly sets out the main results achieved at the level of the eu institutions, as well as the progress made in terms of institutional mechanisms in the member states. however, the presidency's report also identifies the challenges that remain to be met, and mrs gröner has just mentioned some of them in relation to the 12 sensitive areas identified at the fourth world conference on women in beijing in 1995. as requested by the honourable members, it is important to focus on why and how obstacles to the achievement of equality between women and men still exist. i would also like to refer you to the annual report of the committee on equality between women and men, which was adopted on 14 february. before addressing the issues raised by the honourable members more directly, i would like to briefly outline some of the positive initiatives taken at eu level to promote equality between women and men. the promotion of equality between men and women has seen three milestones in the past decade, namely the adoption of the treaty of amsterdam, which created new competences in relation to the principle of equality between women and men. secondly, the establishment of a european employment strategy, which has made equal opportunities a key priority. finally, the integration of gender issues into different areas of action, including the social inclusion process and the structural funds through mechanisms such as the annual work programmes or the national action plans with targeted actions to promote gender equality. the european union's legislative framework on equal treatment has been steadily expanded over the years. the latest development was the adoption in december last year of a council directive which for the first time extends the principle of equal treatment beyond the field of employment and vocational training to goods and services accessible to the public. however, despite the progress made in gender equality, there is still a gap between equality in law and equality in practice and there are significant disparities between women and men in many areas, as also reflected in the presidency report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the good news is that women's employment rates have increased by a greater proportion than men's over the last ten years, but the bad news is that the gap in employment remains very high at 17.2 percentage points and the pay gap between men and women remains virtually the same. this is a matter of concern not only for women but also for the european economy as a whole. if the european union is to achieve the ambitious goals of the lisbon strategy, it will have to reach the target of 60% employment by 2010. in line with the european employment strategy, member states have put in place mechanisms to achieve this objective in their national action plans. the objective set at the barcelona european council on the provision of childcare services is to facilitate women's entry into or return to the paid labour market. it is also part of the strategy to reconcile family and working life. considerable progress has already been made in this respect in many member states, although the traditional gender balance in childcare and paid work persists, despite efforts by some member states to implement policies to encourage fathers to take parental leave. the draft joint employment report this year, which will be submitted to the spring european council, also makes clear the need to strengthen concerted action to increase women's participation in the labour market, particularly with regard to the gender pay gap. in response to these concerns, ministers responsible for equality in the 25 member states committed themselves, in a declaration adopted on 4 february 2005, to developing strategies to increase the number of women in work and quality jobs for them, to guarantee and protect the rights of women in work and to remove structural, legal and psychological barriers to equality between women and men at work. the aim is also to promote policies that enable women and men to balance their work and private lives and their family responsibilities. the common indicators defined by the european union for the area entitled 'women and the economy', the sixth sensitive area identified in the beijing action programme, will make it possible to monitor the evolution of progress. the structural indicators defined in the framework of the european employment strategy will also be of great help in this process. violence against women: despite the many advances made in this area since the launch of the initial daphne programme in 1997, new measures are unfortunately still urgently needed to prevent and combat violence against women and children. we hope that the current daphne programme, which will run until the end of 2008, will remain an essential instrument for programming against violence. the projects carried out under this programme over the years have created many effective networks and developed good methodologies. a number of presidencies have tackled this problem, the most recent initiative being the adoption of indicators developed by the dutch presidency on sexual harassment in the workplace. in the above-mentioned declaration, the eu ministers responsible for equality between women and men agreed to develop preventive methods to combat gender-based violence and human trafficking and to monitor their implementation. they also decided to step up action to prevent and combat all forms of trafficking in women and girls through a coherent, multidisciplinary and coordinated strategy to combat trafficking in human beings. this strategy should be accompanied by measures to address all the factors that promote trafficking, by consolidating existing legislation to better protect the rights of women and girls, and by prosecuting and punishing perpetrators through both criminal and civil measures. as regards the wish to make 2006 the european year against violence against women, i do not deny that such an initiative could help to raise public awareness of this issue, but, according to the information i have, the commission intends to proclaim 2006 the european year of workers' mobility. it also announced that, in the context of promoting diversity and non-discrimination, 2007 would be the 'european year of equal opportunities' and it seems that 2010 should be proclaimed the 'european year of combating exclusion and poverty'. you may be interested to know that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has recommended to the committee of ministers that 2006 be proclaimed the 'european year against domestic violence' as part of a pan-european campaign carried out in cooperation with the european commission and the european parliament, as well as with national associations and ngos. women and poverty: in the ministerial declaration of 4 february, member states also agreed to step up the fight against social exclusion and to remove the obstacles to women's participation in the labour market, as a good job is one of the best ways out of poverty. although there are no gender-specific indicators on the feminization of poverty at eu level yet, some structural indicators, broken down by gender and developed in the context of the processes of inclusion and social cohesion, are presented each year at the spring european council. however, much remains to be done and in most national action plans in the member states, there is little consideration of gender issues outside the world of work. the issue of gender indicators could be addressed in the future. women and the environment: as regards the measures currently being taken to integrate the gender dimension into the development cooperation policy of the european union, i would like to remind you that last april the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation on the promotion of gender equality in the community's development cooperation policies, strategies and interventions. a financial framework of eur 9 million has been set for the period 2004 to 2006 for the implementation of this regulation. this follows the 1998 regulation which recognised that development actions have rarely properly addressed the differences between the situations, roles, opportunities and priorities of men and women and that correcting gender inequalities and strengthening the role of women are vital for social justice and the effectiveness of development efforts. i would also like to point out that the regulation was adopted in the context of the un millennium development goals, the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the beijing programme of action and the outcome document of the general assembly's special session entitled 'women in the year 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the 21st century'. at the 49th session of the un commission on the status of women, the presidency recognised, on behalf of the european union, that gender equality and the empowerment of women were essential to sustainable development and poverty eradication. girls: i have already touched on the issue of trafficking, but i would like to add that in a recent declaration, the eu ministers responsible for gender equality committed to mainstreaming a gender-sensitive approach at national level in immigration and asylum policies, regulations and practices, where appropriate, in order to promote and protect the rights of all women and girls, including by considering measures to take account of gender-based persecution and violence when deciding whether to grant asylum or refugee status. i would also like to point out that in april 2004 the council adopted a directive to grant residence permits to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings. women's rights are human rights: the presidency, on behalf of the member states, reiterated its view to the committee on women's rights that full respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms is essential to the emancipation of women and girls and the establishment of a genuine democracy. this view should continue to prevail in the negotiations in the council on the commission's forthcoming proposal for a fundamental rights agency. i should also add that the european union's new york declaration also addressed the need to combat harmful customary or traditional practices, including female genital mutilation, early or forced marriage and honour killings, which are considered obstacles to the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms by women and girls. women and armed conflict: the council took note of the european parliament's resolution calling for a 40% quota of women in posts related to reconciliation, peacekeeping and conflict prevention. there have indeed been discussions within the european union on the importance of the presence of women in peacekeeping forces and armies, and on the need to provide training for all to deal with the particular problems faced by civilian women in conflict zones. however, since there is no approved indicator or relevant statistical data on women and armed conflict, i am unfortunately not in a position to say whether or not the 40% quota has been met. in their statement of 4 february, eu ministers agreed to implement and encourage initiatives, policies and programmes in line with un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, which does not set quotas as such but calls for increased participation by women. they also decided to act in accordance with the council of europe declaration, action plan and resolution on democratisation, conflict prevention and peace building. during the first week of the committee on women's rights' work, the european union outlined its commitment to promoting the role of women in conflict prevention and resolution, peacebuilding, democratic processes following conflict, as well as after disasters and during the reconstruction phases. the european union also stressed the importance of ensuring that women's needs in the context of post-disaster relief and reconstruction are well understood and programmed, and that women's access to disaster prevention information on an equal basis with men should also be ensured through formal and non-formal education, including gender-sensitive early warning systems. i would now like to conclude by thanking you for the opportunity to present on international women's day the european union's determination to achieve gender equality and its commitment to achieving the objectives set out in the beijing platform for action and the follow-up documents to the 55th session of the general assembly in 2000, which are still very much relevant today. i am confident that the european parliament and the commission will continue to work towards these same objectives and that by also involving civil society and ngos as much as possible, we can take further steps to promote equality. finally, i would not like to conclude without saying how pleased i am to see that today the commission is going to present its proposal for the european institute for gender equality, as it was invited to do by the european council in june 2004. such an institute will provide a much-needed tool and structure for finding a european-level response to issues such as the gender pay gap and increased access of women to the labour market, their participation in decision-making and work-life balance. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i am pleased to be able to discuss with you on what we commemorate as international women's day, the implementation of the beijing platform for action and the results achieved. the celebration of this 10th anniversary is also a significant opportunity for the european union to make progress on the remaining tasks. first of all, i would like to thank mrs groner and the committee on women's rights for a very broad and complex question. thanks to your committee's support, we have made and continue to make great progress in reaffirming the commitments of the beijing platform. i am glad that agreement was reached at the united nations on a political declaration which goes in this direction, and it is no coincidence that the european union has made a significant contribution to this. let me thank the luxembourg presidency at this point, because this question has not been easy, it has required considerable effort and it has also required the strength of a united europe. the european commission played an active role in coordinating the positions for the preparation and follow-up of the beijing platform for action at the united nations. the conference on beijing + 10, organised by the luxembourg presidency on 2 and 3 february, reported on the implementation of the 12 areas of the beijing platform for action in the european union and also highlighted the shortcomings and challenges to be addressed. the report shall be based on indicators agreed by the member states. your first question touches on two central issues. women's participation in the labour market and i would therefore like to stress that efforts to eliminate inequalities between men and women are and will remain a crucial condition for the achievement of the lisbon objectives. it's true, the gender pay gap is very, very high. the commission will seek to ensure that european legislation on equal pay is applied. in the context of the european employment strategy, it will issue recommendations to member states with relatively high disparities. it should also be stressed that the role of the social partners in this area is important and in some ways decisive. one of the challenges the european union still faces is the difficult reconciliation of work and family life. in its new social agenda, the commission has therefore proposed a communication on the future development of gender equality policies. the key issue here is still the confection. i would also like to mention that the revision of the directive on the adjustment of working time will be of great importance in this context. the gender equality programme has funded projects and conferences under the presidency to this end and we are now analysing the results. it is important to continue to put forward initiatives to raise awareness in this area. we also need to have the necessary data. the commission has therefore set up a database on women and men involved in socioeconomic and political decision-making, which is available on the dg employment website. ten years after beijing, women are still, unfortunately, victims of the tragic phenomenon of trafficking in women. the commission is currently preparing a communication on trafficking in human beings to present ways of improving the european union's policy against this crime. the commission intends to publish this communication by the end of the first half of the year. i am very familiar with your proposal for a european year against violence against women. the commission considers combating violence against women to be a priority objective and has already considered the european parliament's request to declare 2006 the european year against this form of violence. however, the commission must note that 2004 was already the subject of a global amnesty international campaign on the same subject and that, therefore, although there is no doubt about the importance of the initiative mentioned by parliament, the commission is reluctant to propose 2006 at european level, when 2004 was a year at world level. it is also important that gender issues are mainstreamed into health policies. this is done at european level through the public health programme, which has funded projects to develop strategies and establish good practices, for example in the areas of prevention of teenage pregnancy, family planning, prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. special attention is paid to hiv prevention in relation to mothers and children. efforts in the field of education should continue to prevent segregation from starting in school and spreading to the world of work. the european council and the commission have repeatedly highlighted the lower participation of girls in science and technology. it is therefore important that the education council set itself the target of increasing the number of graduates in mathematics, science and technology by 15% by 2010, while reducing the gender gap. the cornerstone of the european union's policy towards audiovisual media is directive 97/36 ec, television without frontiers. in its 2005 revision, the commission will present its proposal, which will take account of the rules relating to human dignity, in particular the anti-discrimination rules. the second important media tool is the recent draft recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right to reply with regard to competitiveness in the audiovisual sector and the european information services industry. it is important that media operators are given greater responsibility to ensure that discrimination is excluded from the content of their production. in our development assistance terms, we propose a strategy of gender equality as an end in itself and we recognise the central role of equality in development policies in poverty reduction, better governance and human rights. a modern society, based on creativity, on the ability to harness the human potential of all its members, cannot survive without harnessing the full potential of women. i think that's one of the main reasons for poverty in some parts of the world. the synergies between the platform and the millennium development goals shall be taken into account in the synthesis report on the progress made by the union and its member states towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. i would like to stress that women's rights are fundamental human rights, and the issue of equality between men and women in the european union goes beyond the respect of a fundamental right. this is a specific community policy, which is a priority, well-established in the treaties and supported by a very solid legal basis. as you know, the commission is preparing a proposal to extend the responsibilities of the vienna observatory for fundamental rights, and although it is premature to comment on the future work of the agency, it is clear that it will be concerned with the protection of fundamental rights for both men and women. ladies and gentlemen, in my previous speech i mentioned that the commission is today discussing the proposal to set up an institute for equal opportunities for women and men, the gender institute, and i am glad that we have made progress on this issue as well. i think it's going to be a step that will bring about a strengthening of equal opportunity policies, that will bring about what i think is extremely important, which is a solid foundation, and give us more room for action with knowledge and without prejudice. ladies and gentlemen, thank you. (applause) thank you very much.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what can be said about women's issues, given that we have only one minute in this debate? but as a woman and a doctor, i want to protest in the european parliament with all my strength against the tendencies to objectify women, to aggressively masculinize them and to define motherhood as reproductive health, which is clearly an appropriate term for animals, not for humans. a woman's dignity and mystery is revealed in her motherhood, which need not be strictly physical. and the unspoiled, emotionally healthy women are full of warmth, warmth, natural sensitivity, concern for the other person, willingness to sacrifice, a calling that is home, family, marriage, children, work, not a struggle with men for power. i appeal first of all to feminist organisations to respect the dignity of women and femininity, which is an expression of their spiritual richness.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. today is indeed a day to pay tribute and respect to women, because women deserve to be paid tribute and honor for their commitment as mothers, as wives, as active members of society, as active politicians. but this is not the time to introduce the concept of reproductive health, which is only a thinly veiled endorsement of abortion. the effects of abortion are now very evident. it is clear that on the one hand it has physical health effects, such as infertility, and on the other hand it has psychological effects, which have already been termed post-abortion syndrome. it is not true that the beijing conference introduced into international law the notion of abortion support. that's not true. because of the introduction of the concept of reproductive health, the uen group will not support this resolution and will strongly support the deletion of the term 'reproductive health' as inappropriate and degrading to the dignity of women.
president of the council. i would first like to thank all the members who spoke this morning and also the chair and the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in new york for their efforts and support for the presidency. i would also like to thank the commission for its support. i have already exceeded my speaking time, so i shall be very brief. we need more good examples to share on equal pay. we also need indicators to measure progress but also regression. poverty and social inclusion must remain a pillar of the lisbon strategy alongside gender equality. i fully agree with the european parliament's very strong fight against violence against women and children and, of course, against human trafficking. i think we have to better inform and educate both men and boys if we want to respect women and men in their differences. i believe that we can only truly respect human rights if we accept to look at and respect each other as they are. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. thank you for the debate, i think it was very deep. it is of the utmost importance that the european union considers equal opportunities for men and women, equality between men and women, to be one of the fundamental political values it pursues. we've done a lot of damage on this road, but we can't stop on this road. the legislative framework is relatively good. that doesn't mean it can't be developed further, but what's proving to be key is the lack of implementation. that's something we have to deal with. it's quite clear that at one end of the scale that we can express the gender pay gap are countries that have this 6% gap, at the other end of the scale are countries that have this 27% gap. these are simply unjustified differences, and it is up to us to make a corresponding effort. it is also quite clear that violence against women is a particular issue, that trafficking in human beings is a particular issue. the group of commissioners for human rights considers this to be one of its key issues and i expect that we can make progress in this direction. it's a question that's obvious, it's our challenge, and it certainly can't wait. the issue of police brutality against female protesters in istanbul, turkey, was raised several times in the discussion. the european commission reacted immediately, rejected this excessive violence and i noted with some satisfaction, although we must certainly postpone the final statement, that the turkish side decided to open an investigation into this intervention. i think this is a significant example of the influence of the european union and that this is a significant example where our efforts have benefited the position of women in a wider context than just the european context. it is clear that mainstreaming remains a key issue and needs to be applied consistently, and it is also clear that it is right to develop more and more the concept of gender budgeting, which is in its infancy, but we can already see encouraging progress in some countries. ladies and gentlemen, the role of women in the success of the european project as a whole and the lisbon strategy in particular is irreplaceable. i've been very clear that a society that doesn't tap the full potential of all its members is not going to be able to compete globally, apart from what i said at the beginning, which is that the issue of equality is a matter of principle and we would have to pursue it even if we didn't derive any secondary benefits, say economic benefits. the establishment of the new institute will provide, firstly, clarity and, secondly, expert answers to a number of questions that have been raised and that have proved to be insufficiently addressed. it will also allow us to evaluate, to evaluate the techniques and procedures we have chosen, which have often brought progress but have not yet brought complete completion. the issue of women's position in the labour market was discussed. there is no doubt that the proportion of women actively involved in the labour market has increased during the follow-up to the lisbon strategy. on the other hand, it is also clear that this increase in the overall share is insufficient to achieve the lisbon objective. ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is a concept, it's a political and a value concept. it's a concept that has been followed for decades, and international women's day didn't start 10 years ago, it didn't start today. so it's part of the conscious effort of people to achieve a certain value that we take for granted and deeply held. this endeavor cannot end, we can never be satisfied with the point reached, because as the world changes, the problems will change, new challenges will be faced. one of them is the issue of the demographic aging of society, one of them is the issue of work-life balance, one of them has also been mentioned in several speeches, is a deeper understanding even by our men within the normal social mores. we have a long way to go. the european day against violence against women was also discussed. i would like to reiterate that violence against any human being is abhorrent and that it is the duty of the european project and the european union to find ways of doing so that are effective. violence against women is a violence that exists, the scale of which is staggering in our society, and we cannot remain cold, we must use all means. the only question in this debate was whether it is more effective to declare the european year against violence in 2006, when there was a world year against violence in 2004, or to declare it on a date that we can still consider and that gives it more weight and more visibility. this is a question, not a question of violence as such, because as i said, it is one of the key agendas that the present commission has adopted, that it considers important and that i also hope we can fulfil and we can make progress on. ladies and gentlemen, let me return to march 8th once again. this day marks decades of effort that, despite the difficulties, has led to progress in at least some areas of the world and i'm sure in principle in all, albeit in different ways. it is a symbol of the struggle that we are living now and that we will live and live in the future, because it is a symbol of the struggle to achieve an ideal, and an ideal is always very difficult to achieve. we can get close to it, and this commission has five years to take steps that have to be measurable. ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs figueiredo, and the members of the committee on employment and social affairs for this report on the social situation in the european union. i already stressed the importance of your proposal during the debate with members of the european parliament in preparation for the new social agenda adopted by the commission on 9 february. i take this opportunity to reiterate that the preparation of this opinion, including the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs with representatives of the social partners and civil society, has contributed to the development of the new social agenda. parliament's opinion gives a comprehensive overview of a whole range of problems, of which there are many. the unemployment, the insecurity, the poverty, the inequality, the discrimination. these are real and concrete problems which our citizens feel deeply about. they rightly expect the european union to address these problems and contribute to finding appropriate solutions. in addition, there are the effects of globalisation, economic restructuring, demographic change and the increased diversity in the european union following the latest enlargement. the european parliament asks the commission to develop and publish studies and indicators focusing on all these main tasks and their interactions. i would remind you that the commission regularly publishes analyses and figures in its policy papers and, in particular, in its periodic reports, such as the social situation in europe, employment in europe, industrial relations in europe. these documents have always been of great interest to the press and to social stakeholders. i can assure you that i intend to continue this approach. these reports provide a very good, comprehensive overview of social issues, present statistical data in an aggregated way and present detailed analyses focusing on specific topics such as health protection, quality of work, restructuring, discrimination and equality.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the report we are discussing today has been very critically assessed by my group, the ppe-de group. from the outset, we felt that this report had overemphasised the ideological approach to social problems in the european union, while omitting some very important practical aspects related to this rather than that social situation in the european union and to these rather than other problems. i would like to focus on just two points and that is what i would like to draw your attention to. firstly, as a post-communist country that has experienced for over fifty years the 'benefits' of a planned economy, the prohibition of private property and the restriction of competition, i can clearly state that among the assessments that the author of the report has made, we lack a significant impact of communist regimes on the social situation in the new member states. our experience has convinced us that the european union should not unduly restrict the freedom to conduct business. in its critical assessments, the report proposes to increase the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, to increase the tax base and to create new employment pacts. we do not need new pacts and new legislative solutions. when we talk about unemployment, we should also think about employers. the only effective way of creating new jobs is to enable employers to do their jobs and thus to solve the problem of unemployment in a very practical way. we will not create new jobs by imposing new administrative burdens on businesses, raising taxes and restricting competition. that is why the ppe-de group, in submitting a number of amendments, stresses that the minimum necessary for us to be able to vote for the adoption of this report is to adopt all these amendments.
mr president, the rapporteur, the commission, the council and the commission have all agreed that the commission should be consulted on the proposal. i thank mrs figueiredo for such an interesting and necessary report and, as a pole, for the careful consideration of the situation in the new member states. of all the important issues raised in this draft resolution, i would like to draw attention to the problem of poverty. it's mentioned at the end of the report, and there's no data from any new countries. it is important to know that a person who loses his job in poland is not entitled to a permanent unemployment benefit, even the smallest one, and the minimum social benefit is about eur 60 per month per person. i am calling for a minimum social security for all citizens of the union, for example at half the maximum social security paid in the countries of the union. even if it were 250 euros a month, it would give our citizens a basic sense of security and encourage a more active life. thank you, sir. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the report by mrs ilda figueiredo is about a matter of great importance: the social situation in the european union. i would like to emphasize four things. first, paragraph 18 refers to solidarity with the new member states. i would like to start this report by mentioning the concept of solidarity as the fundamental concept of the european union. secondly, paragraph 22 refers to the european social model. i would also stress that, while it is not enough to maintain and strengthen it, it must also be adapted to the needs of today and those foreseen for tomorrow. thirdly, the report rightly points out that the lisbon strategy does not sufficiently emphasise the social aspects. finally, paragraph 4 rightly states that social and integration policies are essential not only from the point of view of citizens' rights, but also as an important element of economic development.
thank you, mr. chairman. as the author of this amendment, i would like to propose a small correction, namely that we remove the two words 'large scale' from the words 'directing investment to large-scale infrastructure'. the amendment therefore concerns the allocation of investment to infrastructure. i don't think i need to justify it - the point is not to limit ourselves to large-scale infrastructure projects, but to include all major infrastructure investments. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! this discussion shows that the npt is like a dog without teeth. we can use this treaty to scare, to bark, but we can't bite anyone who doesn't abide by it. what happened was important, it happened alongside the treaty or against the treaty. india and pakistan have both acquired nuclear weapons. the secrets of these nuclear weapons were stolen from pakistan, but neither country has faced any sanctions. libya, on the other hand, has been stripped of its nuclear programme and the treaty had nothing to do with it. iran and north korea are not only building the bomb, they are building the delivery system, and there is no chance that they can effectively stop these programs. these countries, by pretending to be part of the negotiations, are playing for time, gaining time and developing their nuclear programme. what should be done? without new, enhanced control mechanisms, all the talk of the 20th century logic, when states were parties (states had the ability to build nuclear weapons), simply doesn't make sense. without effective control, the chance of a treaty being implemented is of no avail. secondly, the enforcement of the abolition of nuclear weapons must be part of the overall policy towards the country concerned. the treaty itself doesn't solve anything. the last thing that needs to be said honestly is that without cooperation with the united states, the policy of coercion, whether against korea or iran, without serious dialogue with the american partner will also be ineffective, because these countries are skilfully conducting a policy of "good and bad". you talk to one, you're afraid of the other. and you can't do that in any effective way to persuade someone you're talking to and not afraid of. thank you, sir.
mr president, on sunday, iran admitted that it had achieved proficiency in the full range of activities for enriching uranium. several top iranian nuclear negotiators had previously admitted that the clerical regime was not at such a point in october 2003 when a nuclear agreement was signed with europe’s big three. the loophole-laden agreement has left lots of wiggle room for tehran, effectively providing perfect diplomatic cover for the mullahs to gain the most precious thing they needed to advance their weapons programme: time. when it comes to ideologically-driven regimes, the bitter truth is that appeasement is an exercise in futility. we should be thankful to the national council of resistance of iran for blowing the cover off iran’s clandestine nuclear programme. were it not for them, iran would have acquired the a-bomb by now. in this light, serious consideration must be given to the notion that iran’s nuclear threat and its sponsorship of terror can only be halted through the toppling of this regime by iranians and democratic opposition groups such as the national council of resistance of iran.
thank you, mr president! when we talk about the problem of non-proliferation and the npt, i think it's worth drawing the attention of the house to new military technologies that are complicating matters even more. well, it is now possible to make so-called suitcase bombs, which are lightweight, easy to transport and which can therefore easily become the prey of unauthorized groups such as terrorists. the second element is the very low-yield bombs, the existence of which completely blurs the clear distinction that has existed between conventional and nuclear weapons. the emergence of these weapons (perhaps to attack heavily armed and fortified sites) may lead to their use in a country which is not a party to the npt and which may, or should, provoke a reaction in the international community, because each country which is a party to the npt has an obligation to other countries not to use nuclear weapons on its territory. thank you, sir.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the stabilization of the situation in lebanon is due to the presence of syrian troops in the country, who have been there for twenty-nine years. there are 14,000 syrian soldiers there -- 14,000 too many. yesterday's decision by the presidents of lebanon and syria to partially withdraw the syrian army from lebanon is a step forward, but still too small. but it's not just the regular military units, it's also the syrian special services, which are influencing, frankly, the internal situation in lebanon. the problem of lebanon is also the presence of paramilitary or, to put it bluntly, terrorist organisations there, and i am surprised that the original text of the european parliament's declaration omitted the designation of hezbollah as a terrorist organisation, which is based in lebanon. it's incomprehensible to me. let's call it what it is. let's call the terrorists terrorists. (laughter)
president of the council. mr president, most of the speeches expressed the very strong feelings of friendship for the lebanese people that exist in this parliament, as well as support for the aspirations of the lebanese people for more democracy and full sovereignty. the european union calls on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the people of the democratic republic of the congo, who have suffered so much from the conflicts in the region, regain their full sovereignty and stability and build a genuine democratic society through free elections. that is why we cannot accept that lebanon is being used by those who want to derail the peace process in the middle east. those who undermine the democratic development of lebanon, those who allow themselves to be used to prevent lebanon from regaining its full sovereignty, cannot count on the european union's understanding. i think your message was very clear there too. this is also true of course for hezbollah, which must choose between participating in the democratic life of a new democratic lebanon or serving foreign forces which do not want peace, neither in lebanon nor in the region. i agree with what mr moscovici said: the european union has only one road map, and that is the immediate and full implementation of resolution 1559. that is why we must work closely with the united nations, with the secretary-general's envoy, to ensure that this resolution is implemented immediately. we must support all the democratic forces in lebanon who want change and who want the sovereignty of this country. that is why free elections in lebanon are so important.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12.15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 6.00 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. what we're dealing with here today is some kind of giant festival of hypocrisy. today you say that the services directive is bad because it could open the way for new countries to sell their services in the old european union. and where were you, members of parliament, when the big western companies were entering the markets of poland and other countries of the new europe for the last ten years? you said then that we had to accept the opening of our market, because that is what a free market is all about (applause) and you didn't worry then that this would create unemployment in poland or in other countries. today, the service directive is an act of justice. i would urge you, commissioner, to continue to be vigilant about this directive. the services directive is an act of justice, because it will show whether europe is equal for all or whether it is only a europe for the rich and not for the poor. if there is a free market, if there is a free europe, then it must be free for everyone, not just for the rich and big companies, which unfortunately the member state on the left of the chamber is defending today. a free europe is a free europe for all. thank you, sir. (laughter)
member of the commission. major progress has been made in developing a competitive single european energy market, characterised by a level playing field. however, as this question highlights, much remains to be done. first, the second gas and electricity directives, which provide for common basic approaches to electricity and gas liberalisation, need to be implemented immediately by all member states. these directives should have been transposed by july 2004, but transposition is still pending in some countries. i shall propose that the commission send a reasoned opinion to these countries next week and intend to pursue these infringement cases rapidly, with the aim of moving to the final stage of the procedure: referral to the court of justice in summer, if nothing happens. in addition, i have instructed my services to examine the implementing laws that have been adopted to ensure full conformity with the requirements of the directives. second, it is necessary to ensure a level playing field with respect to the detailed regulatory rules on issues such as tariff structures and third-party access rules. this has been pursued through the consensus-building approach of the florence and madrid forums which led to the regulation on cross-border trade in electricity that entered into force last year, and the equivalent regulation on gas, which we expect to be adopted very soon. these new laws will make a major contribution to the rapid convergence of detailed trading rules on electricity in each country. in this respect, the role of national energy regulators is central. the existence of such a regulator was a key requirement of the directives, and joint action by them will be vital in ensuring that, from the point of view of the customer, there is one single european electricity and gas network, not 25. it is for this reason that the commission established a european regulators’ group, which is beginning to provide important results in this direction. third, we need to examine whether the present legislative provisions are adequate to achieve our objectives of a truly competitive eu-wide market with high levels of consumer and environmental protection, as well as security of supply. in this respect the commission will make a detailed report to the european parliament and council at the end of this year on both the internal market and competition elements. this should in particular include a detailed examination of the adequacy of the already-existing measures. the report should form a basis for a detailed, wide-ranging debate that enables conclusions to be drawn in 2006. finally, it should be noted that the entry into force of the new constitution with a specific energy chapter would be of assistance in developing a coherent energy policy for the community, strengthening the existing legal basis for action.
i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for your very substantial reply, but also for the deep knowledge of the polish energy sector which you have shown in answering questions from mr paleckis and mr posselt, who probably knows more about the bavarian shale than about polish power stations. i wanted to thank you for saying that the european commission will require and enforce from the member states what they have committed to in the energy field. i hope that the european consumer's interest - polish, lithuanian, estonian, british - will be the main determinant of the european commission's actions, and on behalf of the polish consumer i would like to say that i am counting on it. thank you, commissioner, for your very competent answers.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is a pity that we are debating this report at such a late hour today, because it may not be necessary for all members to hear us, but it is important that the public can hear us. unfortunately, the public benches are completely empty. and it would be important because our committee is different from the others. our committee is designed to be in touch with the people, with the community. in a time when people often feel lost, when the european institutions are so far away from them, it is very important that this commission brings them closer to the life of the european union, to their rights and to the opportunity to take care of their own affairs. that's why i'm going to say it again. it's a pity we're having a late hearing tonight in an empty courtroom. it is also a pity that more people are not listening to this good report by mr wieland (because it is a very good report, and i thank mr wieland very much for it). i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of petitions submitted to our committee has increased for the first time in the ten years of the committee's work, i.e. since 1995. during that decade, the number of petitions has been more or less stable, and recently there has been a dramatic increase. still, our committee is working well. if you compare the timing of the cases in the past and today, it turns out that the committee is working well. the work of the following bodies is what makes a good committee: the bureau, with the president (i have the honour of being the president) and with the vice-presidents.i would like to emphasise, among other things, mr cashman's role as first vice-president of our committee and his very constructive contribution to its work. and then there are the coordinators -- that's the next body. these are the basic statutory bodies, and these bodies are doing very well. there's a secretary who works very well. i think that this structure, with the chairman and vice-chairmen (i.e. the bureau), the coordinators and the secretariat, is quite adequate to the responsibilities we have. this is evidenced by the fact that we are working faster and faster and the waiting time is getting shorter and shorter. i would just like to point out that we are very pleased with the good cooperation with the european commission. but here we would like to see, if possible, commissioner, that in some cases the response is expedited. sometimes in fairly simple cases the response time is quite long; sometimes the commission officials present us with an oral reply and say: the written reply will be later. and that means that we, on the basis of an oral reply, cannot give a full and binding response to the petitioner. thank you very much, mr. chairman, to all those who contribute to the work of our committee. i thank mr wieland, who is a distinguished and active member. thank you for coming. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group. thank you, mr president. on behalf of the uen group, i would also like to thank mr dombrovskis for his competent and clear report, for the guidelines for the 2006 budgetary procedure in the part concerning the eu institutions. the report rightly points to the need to complete the 2004 enlargement round of the union in a smooth manner in the next financial year, particularly with regard to the recruitment of the remaining staff from the 10 new member states, including mainly translators. we, the members from the new member states, see in this last group of workers a number of important shortcomings which make our work difficult. the rapporteur also rightly stressed the importance of preparing for the accession of bulgaria and romania, which is due to take place in 2007. we also welcome the call in mr dombrovskis' guidelines for the eu institutions to improve their efficiency by enhancing interinstitutional cooperation. it would be worth adding, as my predecessors have already mentioned, the improvement of communications to and from strasbourg and the improvement of the efficiency of the various bodies of the eu institutions, so that we would, for example, respect the principle of not holding parliamentary committee meetings in strasbourg, which would perhaps avoid night sessions and sessions that do not improve our well-being or efficiency. i think it should be stressed more strongly that we are committed to fairness and neutrality in our information policy, and especially in the spending of the union's funds on it. although most colleagues agree with this, in practice this is not always the case, for example, in the report on the information campaign on the constitutional treaty, it is explicitly written about explaining to citizens how they will benefit from the constitution. where's the fairness in that? thank you very much. thank you.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate today about the trafficking of female reproductive cells would not be happening if people had a sense of the dignity and uniqueness of the human person that comes from god himself. the second reason to sell eggs or manipulate embryos is simply for material gain. this is contrary not only to moral principles but even to the 1996 european convention on human rights, which states that the human body and its parts cannot be used for commercial gain. the trade in human cells and organs reduces man to a mere object and the womb of a woman to a hatchery, which is an affront to the dignity of the human person, of womanhood and motherhood. the sex cells must not be compared with other tissues or blood. from a purely medical point of view, the production of eggs requires the administration of large doses of hormones, which, especially if repeated, lead to hormonal and neurological disorders, genetic disorders in the nuclei of the eggs, pathological changes and complications in the function and structure of the ovaries, very often of a cancerous nature, which threaten not only the health but even the life of women. furthermore, manipulating germ cells or embryos is ethically unacceptable. this is a major problem of genetic inheritance, which, by disrupting the natural order, is causing chaos, misery and suffering for many people, including those who are called to life in vitro. the directors of the modern drama of the objectification of man are also concerned with the violation of the meaning of marriage and family, the rupture of biological, genetic and legal parenthood, and this must be opposed. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! european law is clear that human tissues cannot be traded, bought and sold. any other position opens the door to abuse. organ and tissue trafficking exists in various parts of the world. his victims are always the poorest - those forced by poverty to sell valuable material. europe has always opposed this procedure, but has supported and continues to support voluntary and unforced donations, such as blood donation. she also accepts the donation of an egg if it is really a gift, a conscious, unselfish, free act. the logic of european law protects the poorest and prevents the commercialisation of human beings. the logic of our law is that not everything can be bought and sold, even if the seller agrees to a monetary transaction. what explains the fact that romanian clinics have a wide supply of free eggs? are romanian women fundamentally different from women in other countries? are they more willing to sacrifice than anonymous recipients? or is it their economic situation - that they are illegally paid? it is important to check whether these women have previously been treated with hormones and whether they have been informed that the treatment is not indifferent to their health. is the human fertilisation and embryology authority's initiative to offer a woman a £1,000 salary not an attempt to break the logic of european law? is not a woman who is handicapped by material hardship and poverty exposed to even worse exploitation and humiliation? is it not in danger of being treated as a factory of parts for sale, as a body producing tissue to order and at a fixed price for others, as a body subject to the laws of the market? the european commission should take care of all this and you, commissioner, should answer all these questions.
ladies and gentlemen! the lisbon strategy is designed to ensure the prosperity, cohesion and development of european society. the achievement of these objectives requires the development of the means to achieve them. in parallel with the development of measures, it is important to keep the cost of living as low as possible. low prices for services and products are particularly important for the poorest groups of the population. the objectives of the lisbon strategy will be achieved, inter alia, by developing research to ensure access to modern technologies and by developing production to enable them to compete with non-eu countries. the efficient implementation of modern production methods, which allow the creation of modern and safe workplaces, should be a particularly important point. modern, low-cost and high-quality production enables competition on external markets, which in practice translates into the creation of new jobs in manufacturing and services. the implementation of the lisbon strategy involves analysing a number of areas of action by the european union and the member states. one of the key issues in the lisbon strategy is the proper orientation of research and implementation programmes. the existing system of scientific work management and research funding is widely used by the countries with the highest economic potential. for decades, flagship r & d centres have been established in europe, for example in finland and saxony. we have to create many new centres in five years to catch up with the leading countries in the world. we need to increase research spending to at least 3% of gdp, increase the scientific and research staff by at least 1 million people and put in place procedures to ensure that funds are spent efficiently. the current situation requires major organisational changes to ensure the coherence of the activities, e.g. the creation of a sufficient number of research centres, resulting from planned development of techniques, technology and production. these centres should concentrate on field research units. the newly organised research units should draw on the intellectual potential of countries that could not afford to build a modern research facility and thus conduct research on their own. the field units and research centres should, in addition to research, conduct teaching activities and recruit talented young people for doctoral studies, thus creating a pool of new research staff. such an action programme would fill the gap created by the drain of european personnel by non-eu countries. this scientific and technical base should largely benefit small and medium-sized enterprises whose growth is being driven by unemployment and which cannot afford to research and implement advanced and modern production methods. in the field of research, the creation of scientific staff and the coherence of these activities in the countries of the european union, there should be three programmes: the programme for the development of regions and the specialisation of production in the european countries, the programme for the development of the european system of scientific research and the training of scientific staff, and the programme for information, the introduction of new technologies and products for production. these programmes should minimise the adverse economic effects of the planned implementation of reach. the system of operation of the research and development base should be simple, clear and based on the principles of competitiveness, which should make it efficient and encourage private investment. the system must be coherent in order to gain social and political support... (the president withdrew the speaker.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. we support the initiative of president barroso and welcome the commission's efforts to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. we do not understand the attacks on president barroso because of the lisbon strategy, because it is not the european commission that is to blame for the fact that the lisbon strategy has not been implemented. the reason why the lisbon strategy remains more on paper than in the real economic life of europe is the lack of courage in the member states to reform the economies of the european union. i come from a country where for 45 years, people have tried to put words on the economy. you can't curse the economy with words. the european commission is in favour of this and we will support it. here it must be said very clearly: it is difficult to expect the commitments of the lisbon strategy to be fulfilled, it is difficult to expect real growth in europe if the member states lack courage, as they lack courage in the case of the services directive we are talking about. europe will only develop if it has lower taxes, less regulation and more economic freedom. reality is knocking on our door. europe is not alone in the world. we know very well that asia is growing very fast, the united states is growing. this economic reality is going to come knocking on our door sooner or later. we therefore wish you, mr president, courage and success in implementing the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, madam chairman! after the enlargement of the european union, when we are confronted on a daily basis with the enormous differences in the level of development of countries and regions, we cannot separate the tasks of the community from the actions and efforts of the individual members of the european union. the lisbon strategy's integration and its potential lies in solidarity in supporting the regions lagging behind and helping them to catch up. the lisbon strategy was designed to respond to the internal and external challenges of our time. however, in the last year we have seen a complete lack of new ideas and discussions on how to revive the lisbon process. i see the main reason for the failure of the lisbon strategy so far as the lack of political capacity of the european commission and the member states that signed the strategy in 2000 to implement the changes required to implement the strategy, including in particular the fundamental liberalisation of the labour market, the reduction of the social protection function, the thorough revision of regulatory barriers, a serious reduction in the redistributive role of public finances. the process of implementing the lisbon strategy has been bureaucratized, which has become the biggest barrier to innovation. to achieve these goals, europe must introduce new visions and joint actions that unite all countries. the link between the lisbon strategy objectives and the cohesion policy instruments and the financial resources allocated to them should be considered as a priority. they are not intended to be a charity given by the rich to the poor, but an instrument for increasing the competitiveness of regional economies, the development of human capital, innovation, and the transfer of technology from science to industry in the european union. the new countries bring to the union of 25 the dynamism of a liberalised market, a strong entrepreneurial spirit, a critical attitude to over-regulation, a high degree of absorption of community law, rapid productivity gains, and finally the synergy and similarity of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the institutional transformation we have been undergoing in recent years. in conclusion, i would like to say that the basis of economic development policy should be the principle that growth and job creation are not the same. the first of these conditions determines the feasibility of the second.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (brussels, 22-23 march 2005).
mr. postle, i'd like to get to the point of our discussion.
i regret that, despite my pleas, you have not spoken about our discussion, but i thank you for your speech.
president of the council. madam president, the european council in june 2000 established that all the countries of the western balkans are potential candidates for membership of the european union. since then, in june 2003, the european council has reaffirmed its determination to fully and effectively support the european perspective of the western balkan countries, which will become an integral part of the european union as soon as they meet the established criteria. it is therefore essentially up to the countries concerned to determine the pace of their rapprochement with the union by aligning themselves with the acquis and by meeting the criteria established by the copenhagen european council and the conditionalities of the stabilisation and association process. to date, only croatia and fyrom have officially submitted their application. as regards croatia, following its application for membership, the european council decided to open accession negotiations in march 2005, provided that croatia cooperates fully with the icty. as regards the fyrom, the commission is still preparing its opinion on the application for membership of that state. the european council meeting in brussels on 16 and 17 december 2004 reiterated its commitment to the full implementation of the thessaloniki agenda, which underlines that the future of the balkan countries lies in the european union. the recent eu-western balkans ministerial forum meetings have assessed progress made and identified challenges to be addressed. the european council recalled in particular that, in this process, regional cooperation will remain an essential element of the union's policy. the council also called for the financial aspects of the accession of a candidate country to be taken into account in the applicable financial framework. therefore, the accession negotiations still to be opened with candidates whose accession could have significant financial consequences could only be concluded after the establishment of the financial framework for the period starting in 2014 and the financial reforms that could follow.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! two news for you: first, the good news is that i'm the last person who wants to interview you today. i'm sorry i have to ask you something. first, you mentioned two countries i didn't ask about, macedonia and croatia. i asked about three other countries. my party and i were in favour of turkey joining the european union, but we wanted to avoid the paradox, which is not understood by the european public, that turkey is joining the european union ahead of other countries that are clearly european. i therefore believe that, in cooperation with these countries, a more precise timetable should be drawn up for their accession to the european union over the next few years. i have a feeling the council won't give us that scenario. that's why i feel a little disappointed.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: investing in science and research, like the whole lisbon strategy, is not an end in itself. in this context, the resolution on science and technology should be taken with a grain of salt. i also appreciate the effort made by mrs locatelli in preparing her report. thank you. of course, the mere declaration that a european research area is being established will not change anything unless it is followed by proper and rationally used (and i want to emphasize this strongly) funds for science and research, and therefore also for the unabated budget of the union. i will briefly touch on a number of issues: firstly, the need to ensure effective methods of attracting young talent and to guarantee an appropriate scholarship system; secondly, the appropriateness of implementing the accreditation rules for higher education institutions in line with the berlin agreements of 2003; thirdly, the simplification of the system of academic advancement while maintaining transparent criteria for obtaining degrees and titles; fourthly, the wider use of private funds in scientific research, both applied and basic, including in the humanities (the commissioner spoke about this). the rapporteur spoke of the facilitation of small and mediumsized enterprises. yeah, but how do you see a software patent in a set like this? someone once said, "knowledge is power" - and looking at the world today, i would add that, unfortunately, ignorance is not the same as powerlessness. thank you, sir.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. of course, this report should be commended, because it is very good that these matters are being discussed - it is extremely important. it is also very good that this is being discussed in the context of the lisbon strategy. but i am afraid that this report will not be like the lisbon strategy, which has mixed economic and social objectives - both are very important, but in the end neither is achieved. as we all know, the economy is stagnant, unemployment is rising. unfortunately, this report combines scientific goals with ideological goals. i don't understand why in three places it talks about the role of women in science, which should be promoted in particular. of course, professorships must be for those who are qualified to hold them. we can try to get women to have qualifications, but if they don't have them, then promoting them by force is completely pointless. i must also say that i am surprised that the only specific scientific topic that has been raised is animal research. i am, of course, a great animal advocate, but this report is not the place to deal with this one issue. i also cannot agree with the idea of imposing a certain ceiling on expenditure on poorer countries. throughout history, poorer countries have benefited from the achievements of richer countries. and that's how it should be now. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the french say, "a little hugging is a lot of embracing". too many goals, not enough achievements. thank you very much, mr. chairman.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. europe faced a major economic challenge, stemming from the rapid development of asian countries and the united states. this requires the acceleration of economic development in the european union based on science and new technologies, which should be supported by the creation of a coherent policy to promote scientific research. the report presents scientific research directions of relevance to the european union as a whole. given the huge differences in scientific potential between member states and regions, in order to ensure the cohesion and harmonious development of all countries, special attention should be paid to poor regions and countries which lack a sufficient base but have a huge human potential. we must combat the notion (propagated by certain groups of people) that it is not worth investing in science where there is no adequate base. therefore, particular attention should be paid to policies to promote research in these countries and regions, so as not to lead to a situation where intellectual differences and development opportunities increase instead of decrease. the policy guidelines for the promotion of scientific research in the union contained in the report on the motion for a resolution correctly identify the main areas of research development, but they cannot ignore the development of science and technology throughout the union. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president! congratulations to mrs. locatelli for preparing a very good report. thank you for being with us, commissioner potočnik. i think that there are mostly former scientists in the room, so we get along very well. i think that commissioner potočnik has never worked scientifically and can take a more distant and cooler view of our proposals. i hope this turns out to be a good cocktail. i would like to point out that the current sixth framework programme, the first in the history of the european union, was already developed and implemented under the lisbon strategy. but the seventh framework programme has another additional feature: it is being developed and will be implemented after enlargement with ten new members. how can this enlargement be used to make science policy more effective and to implement the lisbon strategy? what can ten new countries offer the union? three things: we have highly educated people, often underutilized; research costs are lower in the new countries of the union; we are hungry for success after half a century of being removed from western civilization and development opportunities. how can these strengths be exploited and the research potential of the new member states better exploited? i have five suggestions here. in addition to the criterion of excellence in selecting priorities for funding, additional criteria are needed to create the conditions for the integration of research centres from new countries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. secondly, we're looking to allow smaller projects because our research facilities are smaller. thirdly, simplification of procedures is necessary. for new countries with no experience in complicated procedures, this is a huge burden. we expect clear and transparent rules on the funding of investments in the research structure for new members. fifthly and lastly, integration also means a common market, a full opening up to the movement of people and the flow of services - without this we cannot boost research and win the lisbon strategy. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the uen group. thank you very much, mr president. ladies and gentlemen! there is no doubt that natura 2000 is a pillar of the european union's action for biodiversity, which is why the environment committee's initiative to hold a debate in the european parliament on the impact of the programme's activities and funding is important. the public benefits of this program are undeniable. the most important concerns the health of citizens, but we must not forget the growing potential of tourism and the employment sector, which is estimated to be worth 125 000 jobs in the 15 old member states alone. however, it has long been clear that the development of the natura 2000 concept in europe has not been accompanied by adequate financial security for the construction and maintenance of the network. although the european commission has declared a strategic approach to the funding of the programme, i am afraid that the proposal to co-finance natura 2000 from different sources, including the rural development fund, the structural funds, the life plus financial instrument for the environment, will not provide a comprehensive, coherent and timely way of implementing the network. the need to apply for funds from different funds by different potential beneficiaries will certainly limit the possibilities of raising funds for specific conservation actions. it will also be more difficult to monitor the implementation of the network at national level. there are areas which, according to the criteria currently applied, do not qualify for funding from the available structural instruments, which have different objectives and often concern different types of land use and sometimes specific regions. separate resources should therefore be provided for the creation of the natura 2000 network. otherwise, during the next financial perspective 2007-13, there may be gaps in the funding of the network and, consequently, many conservation measures may not be implemented. as an example, in my country, poland, most of the natura 2000 sites are not eligible for funding because they are, for example, state forest land or land not used for agriculture. i therefore hope that, as the new financial perspective is being drawn up, adequate funding will be provided to support the natura 2000 network. thank you, sir.
the next item is the oral question by mr daul and mr fruteau, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, to the commission: the next reform of the cap in the sugar sector (b6-0013/2005).
i take note of what you have said.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner! the proposed reform of the common organisation of the sugar market is contrary to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, namely to ensure a decent standard of living for farmers and sustainable agricultural development, and is contrary to the lisbon strategy. the proposal for a total reduction of the amounts a and b is inadmissible. it is particularly affecting the new member states, and particularly poland, where the sector has been painfully reduced in recent years. of the 78 sugar mills, only 43 remain. instead of modernisation funds, workers are offered unemployment status and consumers are offered more expensive sugar instead of cheaper. the transfer of quotas between member states will create a real risk of concentrating sugar production in a few sugar factories. as a result, sugar would be produced in regions with higher production costs. it is also false to argue that increased sugar imports into the union market from the poorest countries will improve their financial situation. instead, only commercial enterprises and speculators will profit. the taxpayer and the farmer of the union, including poland, will pay for this. poland will be transformed from a major sugar producer into a sugar importer. the sugar reform proposed by the commission will lead to a monopoly of the big companies, which are already swallowing up more and more competitors. this is to be achieved by reducing the quantities and by dumping, i.e. by temporarily reducing prices. the common agricultural policy is common, but for the chosen few, and that is dangerous. thank you, sir.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the system of national limits unfairly divides the european sugar market, supporting a group of multinational companies and sugar monopolies that make huge profits at the expense of consumers and individual producers. nevertheless, the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar should be approached with great caution. the draft resolution by mr daula and mr fruteau is very balanced and takes account of the interests of all the parties concerned. it rightly draws attention to the difficulties of the new member states in terms of reduced production quantities. the future sugar reform should maintain production and fully compensate farmers and sugar factory workers for the losses incurred, ensuring a decent standard of living for them.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. it is no wonder that the proposed sugar reform is causing a great deal of excitement. it concerns areas which are essential for the further development of the food industry, in which sugar is an essential component of production and which, with its price three times higher, is finding it difficult to develop and compete on world markets. the second important area of this reform is the need to regulate one of the european union's most valuable initiatives - aid to the poorest countries (e.g. the everything but arms programme), where sugar is a major export and revenue component. the third area, and undoubtedly the most important, especially for my country, poland, the third largest sugar producer, is the impact of the reform on eu agriculture. however, implementing the reform today and unlimited transfer of quotas will result in production being shifted to sugar factories in those countries that have previously benefited from eu support. this threatens to completely eliminate the sugar industry in poland, the need to import 2 million tons of sugar per year and the loss of several hundred thousand jobs. the draft resolution prepared by mr daula and mr fruteau not only contains good ideas but also points out to the commission the need for a compromise between these three areas. the commission, however, by issuing a document of this kind, is playing on the social sentiments of our electorate: farmers, consumers, producers, inevitably leading to controversy, and this at a time when the whole of europe is debating and voting on the constitution. the commission must prepare a new document that will help not only brazilian agriculture but also new members of the union who may feel cheated because, as with the budget, the rules change during the game. the need for alternative solutions (such as biofuel or cereal production) for those who may lose. i think it's time to sit down at a round table with all the stakeholders, including especially the politicians, who have to explain to their constituents why they want to take away something they've been used to for years.
member of the commission. mr president, answering all these very important questions within two-and-a-half minutes is not very easy, but i will do my best. it is up to you to stop me when you think i have spoken long enough. i have been listening with great interest to all the various statements. i believe that we need an ambitious reform, a reform that actually brings the sugar regime into line with the 2003 cap reform, allowing farmers to take decisions that are market-driven and not based on political decisions. it must also be a reform that will enable the necessary restructuring of the sugar sector, to secure its long-term viability within the european union. as regards prices, let me be quite clear. maintaining prices at levels three times as high as world market prices is becoming increasingly difficult to justify and will certainly not lead to a sustainable european sugar sector. we also need a reform in order to live up to our international commitments. as for employment, the current regime does not guarantee the maintenance of jobs. over the last decade, 17 000 jobs have been lost as a result of continuous gains in productivity. if the current regime remains unchanged, it is estimated that there would be around 15 000 fewer jobs in 2012, a loss of more than 75%. the goal is therefore to achieve a competitive sugar sector in the community, so that the remaining jobs in the sector enjoy long-term sustainability. there were quite a few questions on impact assessment. the commission has carried out an impact analysis that gives a clear answer to the main questions relating to the reform proposal, including its regional effects. i am convinced that more studies will not provide us with facts that we do not already know. further analyses will just lead to a further delay in the decisions that we really have to take. on the point raised about ownership of quotas, under the current system the quotas for each member state are fixed by a council regulation. the member state then fixes the quantities each sugar producer is allowed to produce under the national quota, and the sugar producers themselves may then distribute sugar directly to the farmer on the basis of delivery rights. under the quota transfer system, as laid down in the commission communication of last july, quotas may be transferred between sugar-producing companies, against payment, across national borders. this would mean that companies have access to valuable quota rights, which can be transferred and then paid for. the normal way to achieve this would be to allocate quotas to companies. however, in the case of the transfer of a quota, the company concerned would not only have to use the money paid for the quota for its own restructuring, but also for compensating the sugar beet farmers for the devaluation of their delivery rights. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, i can envisage a restructuring fund system. such a system could even leave the question of ownership of quotas untouched. the payments out of the fund could take the form of compensatory payments to farmers who suffered from the abandonment of sugar production in a given area. many members have criticised the transfer of quotas. i am willing to explore further the suggestion of a european restructuring fund, which could facilitate a quick exit from the sector by operators who might be interested in going out of business. this is an idea with tremendous legal, budgetary and political implications. however, provided it could be implemented in a safe and equitable way, a restructuring fund could be another tool that might be of great importance to our sugar restructuring objectives. it is clear that the reform will force farmers and producers to take important and sometimes difficult decisions about their future in the sector. we must offer them a clear outlook and, therefore, i consider predictability to be a key issue. i have taken note that this is a concern shared by parliament. i do not, therefore, intend to include the idea of a mid-term review in two or three years in the legislative proposals. instead, a long-term perspective should be offered. finally, let me summarise the main intentions of this reform. it is important to pursue the principles and objectives set out in the july communication. it is also important to have a long-term perspective, to bring prices and european production to a sustainable level and not to reopen the eba negotiations. then, with the help of the european parliament, we must reach a final political agreement before this summer.
i have received the draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12.15 p.m. today. written declarations (rule 142)
the next item is the report (a6-0039/2005) by mrs marie-hélène aubert, drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the european action plan for organic food and farming (2004/2202 (ini)).
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank members for their comments. the action plan gave me an opportunity to listen carefully to the stakeholders and to make use of their practical experiences in the further development of the agricultural sector. let me just mention the main points that we have to keep in mind. firstly, this is an initial attempt to build a comprehensive policy for organic farming within the european union. secondly, organic farming plays an essential role in the reform of the cap. thirdly, it is difficult to see a credible future for organic farming without sufficient market demand. i hope to return to give you my final comments and to listen to those of the members of the european parliament.
thank you very much, especially for your brevity. i am sure the commissioner will have the opportunity to comment on all the speeches at the end. in view of the time limit, i am adjourning the proceedings at this point. we will return to the discussion and concluding remarks after the formal part of our meeting, which is approximately 12:15 p.m. thank you very much. thank you. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
, on behalf of the ind/dem group. ladies and gentlemen! the legal admission of genetically modified organisms to crop and livestock production and to the eu market is a major threat to organic farming and, above all, to consumer health. it is incomprehensible to resort to gmos in the case of overproduction of natural food. the introduction of gmos will lead to environmental destruction. the effects on subsequent human populations may be unpredictable: dangerous allergies in humans, increased resistance of pests and weeds, increased resistance of bacteria to antibiotics, elimination of beneficial insects. the approval of gmos will lead to conflicts between farmers. those who choose to use gmos in production will be charged for any claims. they'll be dependent on biotech companies. the control mechanisms that may be in place for gmos do not guarantee their effectiveness. it is virtually impossible to produce meat without gmos, according to a dutch study. these facts undermine consumer confidence in organic farming. it's impossible for conventional crops and gmos to coexist, it's the logic of biology. by allowing gmos on the market and at the same time prohibiting the cultivation and rearing of gmos in organic farming, the union is falling into a kind of legislative schizophrenia. in the face of the great, not fully understood, risks associated with gmos, the european parliament and the european commission take on a huge moral responsibility for enacting legislation that is contrary to nature and the good of man. organic farming and production based on traditional and natural methods is an opportunity for european agriculture. thank you, sir. (laughter)
in writing. on 10 march 2005, in the vote on the resolution "on the follow of the fourth world conference on women platform for action (bying +10) ", i voted against. it is a very poorly drafted and inadequate resolution, in which a number of proposals are put together, which are both correct and incorrect, and sometimes even absurd. the latter include, for example, the requirement that the principle of gender equality be taken into account in the structural funds (paragraph 20) or the call for a 40% participation rate for women in peace-keeping or prevention (before armed conflicts) missions. i particularly object to paragraph 13, which contains the phrase 'women's reproductive health'. that last wording in the final vote meant that i could not vote for this resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: for decades, china has been seen as an expansionist country that wants to build its position at the expense of other countries and nations. i don't want to be completely blunt here. i would like to recall both the annexation of parts of kashmir by china and the war in the himalayas between china and india and the chinese aggression in vietnam in 1979. the most amazing and shameful of these acts occurred before (and we have already discussed this), namely, the conquest of another country, tibet. events of this kind have rarely happened in the last 50 years and have never gone unanswered and such a conquest has never been sustained. i would like to mention the case of east timor and the well-known case of kuwait and iraq. china and tibet were different. it's not just about conquest, but also that this country is currently undergoing a particularly strong blue-collar campaign. tibet is a place of mass settlement by the chinese, controlled, of course, by the central government. it's a place where tibetans can't find jobs because the new jobs are for chinese. it is also a place where their national identity, their great historical legacy, is being destroyed. of course, the first line of such action must have been a blow to the great tibetan religion. this is evident not only in the way the dalai lama has treated him, but also in the fact that the church's second most important representative, the panchen lama, has disappeared and it is still unknown what happened to him. and you can see this in the mass indoctrination of both the monks and the buddhist monks and their re-education, which always ends with one thing, and that is that either someone signs a declaration that they are going to break away from the dalai lama or they will never return to the monastery. thus, some 12,000 buddhist monks and nuns were expelled from their monasteries. i won't go on here reminding you that the very possession of a picture of the dalai lama is a criminal offence and that the image of the man is to be erased from the tibetan memory. this is all very similar to the actions that were taken in russia when they retouched the photographs of bukharin, trotsky and others. and to say that this is china's internal affair and therefore we should not interfere is very similar to the logic of a person who is on trial for the murder of his parents and is asking for a lenient sentence because he is an orphan. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. i am very pleased that this parliament is dealing with the tibet issue for the third time in a short time, because it is a very important issue. i am also very pleased that the european commission is taking up this matter and i thank the commissioner for his speech. i would like to point out that i heard some remarks in the commissioner's speech that i cannot agree with (and as i understood mr onyszkiewicz's speech, mr onyszkiewicz could not agree with that either). it sounded like this was an internal matter of china, and it's not an internal matter of china violating human rights in their own country. this is a matter for a country conquered by china - that is what mr onyszkiewicz was talking about and i agree with him completely. it was very kind of you, commissioner, to mention that the rights of the tibetan people must be taken into account on the one hand, and the aspirations of the chinese authorities on the other. this will be difficult to reconcile, because the chinese authorities' aspirations will never be limited by anything. we can only agree on one thing: what the dalai lama agrees on, that china can represent tibet on the international stage. inside, it's not just going to be autonomy - inside, tibet has to govern itself. so i think that to say that we need a climate of trust on both sides is to put things on the wrong footing. we need the chinese to behave. the tibetans have given enough evidence so far to show that they are doing the right thing and that they are building a climate of trust. their willingness to have china represent them abroad is a very strong indication that they are worthy of trust, though it is an unfortunate phrase for a conquered and oppressed people. ladies and gentlemen, we must realize that china, having conquered tibet, has identified religious matters with national and cultural matters. in all three respects the tibetan people are persecuted and this persecution must be stopped. thank you very much, mr. chairman.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i thank the president for allowing me to speak. i was supposed to do this on behalf of the unredeemed, but unlike my colleagues, i wanted to thank commissioner kallase very much for his speech. i think that the european commission must take a different approach, perhaps less expressive than that of the european parliament, less spectacular but more effective, to tibet, and i think that the european commission has today demonstrated such a policy and political will, and i would like to thank the commissioner for that. i think what's important is the dalai lama's recent declaration about respecting china's territorial integrity. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, which is the only body that has been able to do so. i think even a step-by-step policy is an effective policy. i am convinced that with the support of the european parliament, the commission, and also on our behalf, can ensure that all the problems which my predecessors have rightly mentioned here are actually solved. what my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about is a certain picture of reality. i would very much like the photography of the future to be something completely different, so that the problems that we're talking about here today, in a year or two, are problems of the past. i wanted to thank the european commission for this statement. i am often critical of the european commission, but this time i think it is a step in the right direction. and i thank the president very much again for allowing me to speak as previously agreed. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. chairman. on the map of europe, belarus is not just a black spot, but a spot that is getting darker. while democracy is making progress in various arab countries, albeit sometimes very slowly and to our dismay, the situation in belarus is deteriorating. belarus is being pushed into an increasingly isolated situation by its 'ruler' - alexander lukashenko. he recently stated that belarus should not send young people to study in the west, because the education they receive in belarus is completely useless, given the political situation in the country. no wonder it is useless, because in belarus, perhaps as the only european country, or perhaps not only european, there is an official state ideology. everywhere there are officers who are to supervise the observance and development of this state ideology in every workplace. that's why it's so important that we send a strong signal. because i say: what is happening in belarus is not a matter of belarus, it is a big issue for all of europe. thank you, sir.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. happy and independent countries often tend to forget the fate of other countries. we were just discussing tibet today. fortunately for tibet, the dalai lama doesn't let himself be forgotten. they don't let you forget they exist. i must say that the history of my country and my people has been bitter too. in the 19th century, europe often tried to forget that poles existed and that they had a right to independence. only a series of uprisings in poland reminded of the so-called polish cause and did not let forget about poland. in more recent history, after the yalta conference in 1945, the world largely forgot about the whole of communist-captured europe. then came 1989, the overthrow of the communist government in poland, and then, not before, the fall of the berlin wall. then came happier times for poland. today we have to realize that what is beyond the eastern border of today's european union is not somewhere far away on the moon, it is in our immediate neighbourhood. when the ukrainian people were determined to be independent, the european union was able to express its support. and that's the way it should be today. today we have a responsibility to defend the belarusian people and the right of belarus to real independence, not the alleged independence controlled by lukashenko and his henchmen. it is necessary to realize that lukashenko, fighting against his people, is also fighting against their culture and religion, and especially against the catholic religion, which has many followers in belarus, and which is identified in belarus with pro-independence and pro-western tendencies. the expulsion of catholic priests became the norm in belarus at some point. that is why we must today give our full support to the belarusian people and the belarusian freedom.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. it is rare for the european parliament to vote unanimously. i believe deeply that we will vote on belarus today. i believe it is possible. it is rare in international practice, and also in domestic politics, that situations are black and white. the situation in belarus is a black and white film where on one side there is truth and freedom, and on the other side there is the regime. i thank the rapporteurs for their draft resolution. i don't know if it's harsh - it's adequate to the situation that exists in belarus, a european country or whatever. this draft resolution is a voice in defence of a free, democratic and european belarus - a country that deserves a better future. the european parliament, while remembering the political prisoners in belarus, the missing, the closed newspapers and universities, stresses that freedom is indivisible and that freedom does not need a visa from mr lukashenko. i think we have the reporters to thank for that. in conclusion, i would like to say that the european parliament is defending belarus today, but it is also defending european solidarity and honour. thank you, sir.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. thank you very much. despite the passing of years since the end of the cambodian conflict, the internal situation in the country remains a cause for concern, also mobilizing for debates in the european parliament, where we recently discussed the violation of human rights and the degrading treatment of women and children. the ruling camp, elected in so-called free elections, lacking a vision of the state, is unable or unwilling to enter into dialogue with the opposition. already in the first local elections, 20 people were killed and the ruling party denied opposition parties access to the media. many activists are currently being arrested. those who were once detained are still in prison without trial. it's common to get testimony by force or promise. corruption is rampant. all of this is a hallmark of cambodia's politics and justice system. notably, the cambodian ministry of religious affairs has issued an order banning christian missionary churches, which has sparked anti-christian protests. religious discrimination, restrictions on freedom of association, freedom of expression, threats, intimidation by political leaders seriously violate the right of the nation and the individual to freedom. we therefore call for respect for human rights, for an end to the persecution and intimidation of human rights defenders and we support the european parliament's resolution. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, i wanted to let you know that i voted against, but unfortunately without an automatic card. i wanted to make a record of it.
mr president, i would like to pay tribute in the european parliament to the holy father, john paul ii, whose last journey was accompanied by the veneration of millions of believers and non-believers in rome, but also by countless crowds through the media throughout the world. pope john paul ii, in close union with god, the totus tuus, showed us by his actions the will of god in the shaping of civilization, life and love. as a priest, bishop, cardinal and pope, he has defended life from conception to natural death, the dignity and rights of every human being and of entire nations, reminding us that democracy without values easily turns into open or disguised totalitarianism. pope john paul ii has said that only a europe that does not erase but rediscovers its christian roots can meet the great challenges of the third millennium: peace, dialogue between cultures, religions and the protection of creation. we pray to god for the holy father and for a united europe of christian roots.
mr. speaker, the house! i would like to make a special appeal to the european parliament, in cooperation with the holy see, to hold a conference this year on a subject of such importance to our pope, the question of work. it's a big problem in europe, in the european union, all over the world. the polish pope was an advocate of helping the unemployed. i think it's something that can bring people of faith and people of faith, catholics and people of faith, together. i therefore call on the european parliament to organise such a conference with the holy see this year. i think it's also a tribute to this great man.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the specific situation in which the treaty establishing a constitution for europe is now found. this treaty, signed in october 2004, is currently undergoing ratification and awaiting entry into force. the question then arises: what obligations do states have that have signed the treaty but have not yet ratified it? these obligations are laid down in international law, in particular the vienna convention on the law of treaties, which provides in article 18 that such a state has an obligation to refrain from actions which would impede or prevent the entry into force of that agreement or would compromise its object or purpose. this means that international law obliges governments to take all necessary steps to ensure the ratification of the european constitution. as a result, the state, the government, cannot in any way support or tolerate actions against the constitution, the pacta servanda sunt - treaties must be kept.
mr. speaker, the house! the greatest man of our time has passed away, john paul ii. the whole world froze, the whole world was in mourning. billions of people have paid homage to him. at a time when the european union is plunging into a crisis of values, it is necessary to say here, in this house, with emphasis, where did the moral and spiritual strength of john paul ii come from, where did the power of the spirit that this great man radiated come from? it was taken, your honor, from what you reject: it was taken from the depths of the teachings of christ, the teachings of jesus christ, the teachings full of love and truth. there is only one truth, and if the emerging european state rejects this truth, contrary to what millions of people around the world think, it will go astray and the building will collapse.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the changes brought about by the recent enlargement of the european union, both in terms of geography (10 new member states) and demography (450 million new inhabitants), are new and very important conditions for consolidating the area of freedom, security and justice. however, despite the fears that accompanied this opening up of the union, that enlargement might lead to the 'export' of the risks of organised crime or uncontrolled migration, today it can be said that internal security in the european union has not been weakened, on the contrary, thanks to the adoption of a new group of countries we can cooperate more effectively in europe. mutual trust is a key issue for the development of effective cooperation and this concerns all issues of the area of freedom, security and justice, including those as important for the legal security of citizens as judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. i would like to remind you that the lack of full confidence in the new members of the community is reflected, among other things, in the sui generis provision of transitional periods for the full participation of these countries in the schengen area. we're already seeing the first signs of appreciation for the achievements of our 10th. we'll find them in the hass program, which was passed last november. the programme sets the start date for the schengen evaluation for the first half of 2006, with a target entry date of 2007. but for this operation to succeed, all the conditions must be met - above all by the european commission, which is responsible for building and coordinating the new schengen information system 2. the system is due to be delivered in march 2007 and i would like to stress that we must do everything we can to keep that date. moreover, cooperation on internal security in the broad context of enlargement will not be possible if decisions are taken in narrow, opaque intergovernmental structures, such as the g5 - uk, france, spain, italy and germany - and the refusal to admit new member states to these bodies is explained by the claim that the new members have a 'different operational culture' and therefore cannot participate in these bodies. this certainly does not promote trust and good cooperation. the last important point i wanted to make about enlargement is the need to develop a concept and strategy for action towards third countries on the enlarged external border to the east, the new judicial and home affairs environment.
mr president, the president of the european commission - mr barroso has repeatedly assured us, including in this chamber, that he will seek to reduce eu regulations by as much as 25%, because there are too many and too many are unnecessary. these assurances have always been applauded by those of us in this chamber, because many of us are aware that we are dealing with a kind of imperialism of european law which would like to regulate everything possible. on the other hand, however, and this is the paradox, once the individual projects have been submitted to the relevant committees, including transport and tourism, the same parliamentarians inevitably fall into these regulatory tracks by multiplying the regulations for which it is difficult to find a rational justification. the regulation on the harmonization of social legislation, which we are debating at the moment, is a good example of this way of thinking and acting. i think that first of all there has been a far-reaching, absolutely unjustified confusion of two codes that does not exist in many other areas of social life, namely the codes of traffic law and labour law. labor law has been mixed up with another code. secondly, there has been too much interference with the subsidiarity principle. thirdly, and this is very important, the over-extended apparatus, or rather the whole control system, which is practically impossible to implement, and here the votes of the members of parliament clearly indicate this - the enormous difficulties in implementing it. fourthly, the detail of the regulations concerning, in particular, working time and rest, their division, their interval, is frightening in its bureaucracy. it creates almost no flexibility. in view of all this, i think that this is the kind of regulation that we can do without in the european union, because it fits perfectly into the 25% of president barroso.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us discuss today an issue which reveals the true face of the world we live in today. it's an attempt to redress the profound disparities in the living conditions of people across our globe. it is also a practical test of our knowledge of the meaning of the word "neighbor", both as individuals and as nations. i cannot fail to refer here and now to the person whose memory was honoured yesterday by the european parliament, the holy father john paul ii, who was particularly sensitive to this problem and who has awakened the conscience of the world. the millennium development goals, which we know were adopted in the jubilee year, have a thousand-year history, because we know that the fight against poverty has been going on for millennia on our planet. the objectives of the programme require effective and expeditious implementation. so i thank mrs kinnock for the effort she has made in producing a report on the role of the european union in achieving these objectives. however, in this context, i cannot agree with the term 'progressive' in paragraph 15 of the motion for a resolution, which refers to measures promoting abortion, but which are hidden behind the definition of reproductive health rights. the shortness of my speech does not allow me to cover the full scope of this extremely important matter. but i'll share a few thoughts. it says, "you're poor because you're stupid", and it adds, "you're stupid because you're poor". it is imperative that we break this vicious circle of impossibility and help poor countries and regions by investing heavily in education in these countries. this is true for the second purpose in relation to the basic level. but i think that is far from enough. we need good secondary and higher education institutions located in these countries and regions. i want to emphasize this very strongly - located there to bring educated people from these nations who want to help their countrymen. what is needed is a deep listening to the needs of local communities, not a kind of happiness-making according to someone's - even a noble visionary's - view. without it, we would be building houses on sand, and our activity would be like giving fish, not teaching them to fish. i'll bring up one more point. to solve these problems properly, the right financial resources are needed - big money, but not one that the wealthier world, including the european union, cannot provide. the ones that are currently available are far from sufficient. i would therefore like to point out to the house the possibility of obtaining substantial financial resources for this general purpose by introducing a tax on inter-currency transactions. i'm thinking of what's called the tobin tax.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers, or rather most of them, for their comments. i think that most of the speeches will be reflected in the communications which i will most likely have adopted in a few minutes at the commission and which i outlined to you a moment ago. as regards the other remarks that have been made, they will, for the most part, be discussed and decided - i hope - in the declaration of development policy that i announced, which is now being discussed, consulted and debated very widely and which should therefore end at the beginning of september. i shall focus on a basic theme: the liberalisation of markets; the last speaker spoke about this issue, which i am sure will surprise you as a liberal. i too believe that market liberalisation can only have positive effects if there is a state capable of enforcing the rules of the game. in my view, in the 1990s, it was wrongly thought that absolute liberalisation of markets, even where there was no state, would spontaneously produce wealth to be distributed. i quite broadly agree with the limits you place on market liberalization. in the coming weeks and months, debates of this kind will take place again. however, i would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether the time has not come for action today. there are a lot of studies, consultations, findings being made. we can, of course, continue to think, to debate about concepts, about categories, about principles: all of these are very important. but i would like my policy to be above all a policy of implementation and concrete achievements. i therefore make an appeal - and i have heard a number of concrete proposals in the speeches today - if you have concrete ideas for the effective implementation of our development policy, i am of course very much in favour of them! without at all disputing the validity of certain rules governing development, i must say that some of these rules, when applied in a strictly technocratic manner, make it almost impossible to achieve certain objectives. it's a question i wish i could discuss with you from time to time. i promise you that i will submit a number of proposals in the coming weeks to try to be more effective. indeed, ensuring coherence between the different policies is one way of being more effective. budgetary support, if properly managed and geared to specific sectors, for example, can of course make us more efficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and these are just a few examples. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for all these remarks and considerations. i promise you i'll make the best of it.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the next item is the commission statement on malaria control.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking most of the speakers for their support for the prospects for european union which i have just outlined. clearly, the fight against malaria deserves more european support than ever before. the commission wants to ensure that this disease remains a political priority at global level and in our dialogue with the countries affected. as i said in my opening remarks, the fight against malaria requires efforts and resources in different policy areas such as research, trade and of course development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. the commission will present an action programme to continue the fight against malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/aids through external action. we will work closely with the council, with the member states, with you and with our strategic partner, the who. europe must continue to help the affected countries to achieve the millennium development goals, including the one on malaria. the european union will make this fight a priority in its policy.
i'm closing the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting of the committee on foreign affairs in brussels, the members voted overwhelmingly in favour of bulgaria and romania's application for membership of the european union. the support of both proposals was also expressed by the members of the committee on foreign affairs from the independence and democracy club, as we do not intend to block the efforts of these two european countries to integrate with the rest of the continent. we see great progress in bulgaria and romania in political and economic reforms, but we feel obliged to warn the citizens of both countries against excessive optimism. although the official documents of the european commission state that 'one of the objectives of the european union is to deepen solidarity between its peoples, while respecting their history, culture and traditions', the reality is far from this. solidarity is no longer a priority in the european union. what counts is the concept of competitiveness, enshrined in the new mutation of the lisbon strategy. the resources allocated to the new member states of the union are insufficient and the policy pursued is therefore geared to widening the gap between regions and countries. there is a serious concern that bulgaria and romania will be contributing to the bureaucratic structure of the european union rather than receiving real development aid.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the debate today is, first of all, i would say, and i regret to say this, of a purely accounting and bureaucratic nature. i am all the more pleased that the commission representative, mr schmidt, has drawn attention to what is being imposed on itself at a great historic moment. it is a great historic moment for bulgaria and romania, because the accession of bulgaria and romania marks the final overturning of the yalta divisions - divisions which were against culture, against tradition, against european justice. we are now welcoming into the european union two countries which have a tradition of european culture. they made a great effort when they got their independence over a hundred years ago, when they consolidated their modern statehood, to just enter western european culture. who among us today does not know names like brancusi, eliade, maria silva, the pseudonym of a very famous writer who was the queen of romania 90 years ago? ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria, too, when it regained its independence and freed itself from bulgarian domination, invited the western european saxe-coburg-gotha dynasty to its throne. the current bulgarian prime minister, a representative of this dynasty, is successfully leading bulgaria into the european union. let us welcome these countries with joy as members of the european family of nations.
mr president, romania and bulgaria are european countries. world war ii was not ended the way it was supposed to be. the accession of these countries to the european union will be a reparation for the tragic yalta agreement and the fulfillment of the wishes of many people, including pope john paul ii. whether it happens on or after 1 january 2007, these countries would not be ready economically and socially for another 40 years. but since our most important criterion is the sincere will to create a common, just europe based on the christian heritage, i propose that romania and bulgaria join us without delay on 1 january 2007. their european zeal should not be dampened, but rather used to carry out the last reforms necessary before accession.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the existing regulations of the european parliament and the council of the european union on the european regional development fund do not provide for the possibility of covering investment costs directly related to housing from eu funds. the non-eligible costs include expenditure on the adaptation, reconstruction or renovation of buildings for housing purposes, whereas this expenditure represents a huge financial burden on the budgets of the new member states. according to available data, more than one third of the population lives in large-scale slab buildings, which were the main form of housing in the former communist states. the apartment blocks are in a state of profound degradation. the lack of funds for their modernisation leads to a steady decline in the living standards of their inhabitants, excessive energy consumption and negative consequences for the environment. the european ministers for construction, meeting in prague in march this year, asked the european commission whether it was possible to allocate funds to at least partially solve this problem, hence my question: what is the commission's position on this matter?
ladies and gentlemen! promoting social, economic and territorial cohesion and solidarity between member states is one of the treaty objectives of the european union. the european union is facing many challenges today. one of the most important, alongside the global competition of an ageing population, the development of a knowledge-based economy, is certainly the growing developmental diversity between and within european regions. the problem is not just the sharp increase in disparities due to the accession of new, relatively poor countries in central and eastern europe. regional disparities have also been increasing over the years in the old fifteen. the european cohesion policy is designed to prevent these disparities. it is also important to recognise that cohesion policy pursues important political objectives in addition to its economic rationale. the process of european integration is based on the principle of solidarity, the most important dimension of which is the pursuit of cohesion. european solidarity is the foundation of european integration, without which it should stop at the stage of a customs union. this is why cohesion policy should be the top priority of the new financial perspective for 2007-13 and why the poorest regions and countries should be the focus of the funds, since cohesion policy must first and foremost be used to compensate for the differences in the level of development between regions. madam president, in order to achieve development objectives effectively, it is necessary to ensure that they are financed at an adequate level. the new financial perspective must take account of the new realities. we have to take into account the fact that last year the population of the european union increased by over 70 million people living in less developed regions. at the same time, the demands for the european union budget to be reduced should be made conditional on regulatory changes. the simple rule should be: less budget, less state in the economy, full implementation of the common market. it is surprising, however, that some of the countries which are demanding a reduction in the expenditure ceiling, such as france and germany, are at the same time blocking the establishment of a genuine common market in services, as is the case with the draft services directive.
it is characteristic that the issues raised in the question on the latest enlargement are being debated on the eve of the final decisions on the financial perspective for 2007-13. we are not surprised by the questions of the parliamentarians of the old countries of the union aimed at revealing the financial consequences of the last enlargement by country and we understand that these questions are also an expression of the expectation that the commission will monitor and assess the effects in the case of new enlargements. in support of the desire to ask this question, i would also like to draw attention to the need to present not only the costs and burdens reflected in the net balance sheet, but also the benefits that the old member states of the european union have received, probably also unevenly distributed - benefits concerning both the growth of trade, the growth of capital investment, the increase in the market for large public procurement, the increase in environmental protection and other elements. it is important not to renounce rigorous financial analysis and at the same time to strengthen the debate on the european union as a sphere of costs and burdens, but also as a sphere of benefits resulting from a fair distribution of costs.
mr president, the european council has again made the lisbon strategy its priority - it is a hobby of the council. this strategy reminds me of a quote by russian writer nikolai gogol, who wrote, "the old is not yet dead, the new is not yet born, but both threaten the living". the old strategy is dead, the new one is in tatters, but both threaten europeans with blank checks, conflicting priorities, empty words. today, the president of the council, the prime minister, says that the europeans do not read the strategy and do not like it, but that it is not the fault of the europeans. many of the council's proposals elicit a 'yes, but' reaction, and that 'but' grows as you read them more closely. this is the case with the r & d framework programme. let it be a springboard for research for the whole of the old and the new union. but it cannot be a gateway to the renationalisation of the membership dues of the richest countries of the community. in the recent council documents, on paper, we have competition, and in practice, in practice, we have moved away from the services directive, which made that competition real and strengthened it. does rada want to have a cookie and eat it at the same time? that's good news for asia, the european competitor is now out. instead of calling for the union to stop creating internal fear, it should do so, and that means that small polish, hungarian, czech, slovak, lithuanian companies are to be treated in the same way as companies in the old union. you know better than anyone that's not true. if the council is talking about reallocating aid, does that mean in practice less money for new members? these concerns were not addressed by the council. if the council is talking about reforming the regional aid system, will this not be a pretext for, let us say, perpetuating the division of europe into a poor - new and old - rich union which would be happy to forget the principle of solidarity - the foundation of the european communities?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at its last meeting the european council admitted that the implementation of the so-called lisbon strategy had produced very poor results on the ground - in fact, it had ended in failure. i would like to remind you that the union has not achieved the 3% economic growth target, and the gap between the per capita gdp of the european union and the united states has widened, and it was assumed that it would be completely closed. expenditure in the key area of research and development increased marginally, employment rates in all the groups mentioned in the lisbon strategy increased far too little. there are still serious obstacles to intra-community trade in goods and services. the liberalisation of the services market would be a prerequisite for growth, which is already a myth, sustainable and lasting, because, despite the long-standing treaty provisions on freedom of economic exchange, it remains a fiction. the process of liberalisation is facing fierce resistance from civil servants and professional bodies in the countries of the old union. opponents argue that the quality of services provided by entrepreneurs from the new countries is poor and that they are engaged in social dumping. thus, opponents of liberalization discriminate against their fellow citizens by condemning them to use services at exorbitant prices. i believe that a very important factor in stimulating economic growth would also be to avoid treating cohesion policy as a mere propaganda slogan. to avoid compromising the lisbon strategy, the council, the commission and above all eu officials need to remember what the principle of solidarity really means and how the free market really works.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. at its last summit, the european council took important decisions that modify the provisions of the stability and growth pact. i want to express my support for these changes. while these changes soften and reduce the restrictive nature of certain provisions of the pact, they do not necessarily mean that budgetary discipline in the member states is weakened. we all know that the rules of the covenant have been violated continuously for a long time. at present, one third of the member states have excessive budget deficits. this is deeply demoralizing and undermines the credibility of the union as a whole. the modification of the pact, and especially the flexibility of the preventive part, actually strengthens the disciplinary power of the pact. it is better to have less restrictive rules that are obeyed by all without exception than to have the most restrictive rules that are ignored and broken. i also welcome the establishment of the summit on the activation of the lisbon strategy. i am pleased that the council's conclusions on this issue take account of the conclusions of the report prepared by the high level group chaired by mr wim kok. the rapid implementation of the reforms envisaged in the lisbon agenda is a necessary condition for the sustained acceleration of economic growth, the increase in employment and the maintenance of the european social model. but let us remember that the main responsibility for implementing the necessary structural reforms now lies with the member states. it is the governments and parliaments of the individual countries that must show political courage and imagination. they must be able to convince their national populations that it is in their own long-term interest to implement the lisbon reforms effectively and quickly. the european institutions can and should support the governments of the member states in this difficult process. the commission should strengthen its role as an effective enforcer of council decisions and should monitor progress of reforms in individual countries in a transparent manner. the european parliament should, on the other hand, establish permanent cooperation with the national parliaments of the member states. mr president, i propose that a permanent institutional forum be set up, where representatives of the european parliament and the national parliaments would discuss the implementation of the lisbon reforms at regularly scheduled meetings. this will increase the sense of responsibility for the implementation of the strategy at parliamentary level and will reinforce the awareness of the importance of the strategy in european societies.
mr president, looking at the results of the spring summit, one might have the impression that the european union has unfortunately taken a step backwards. the achievement of sound economic objectives is becoming more difficult and more distant. the relaxation of the rules governing the operation of the stability and growth pact is very worrying. manually controlling, applying its rules only when it applies to certain countries and not applying to those that regularly break its rules, is a shortsighted policy. what example does this set for member states that have opted for painful reforms to achieve financial discipline and meet the convergence criteria? what example does this set for the new member states? the lisbon strategy declarations are unfortunately still on paper. the need for member states and the union as a whole to move beyond rhetoric and to fulfil solemn commitments with concrete and consistent action. it is not possible to disagree with the presidency's conclusions that the completion of the single market in the free movement of services will support community objectives such as growth, employment and competitiveness. the services directive is one of the best parts of the lisbon strategy. the consistent implementation of the single market is the best service we can render to the lisbon strategy. however, these objectives will be achieved more quickly and better if the services directive under discussion today is not subjected to a process of softening, dilution and delay in relation to its original version. we must ensure that services are provided freely and without restriction throughout the union. we must work with the utmost common sense and the minimum of restraint when we work on this directive. the union needs strong growth-enhancing incentives to achieve its economic objectives. the enlargement of the eu to 10 new countries in may last year was one such stimulus. we must now move on, we must think beyond the horizon of the next generation, and not just of the current political calculations, electoral calculations and referendums, it is our duty, we owe it to the citizens of the member states. we cannot be charmed by words and rhetoric and deceive ourselves about the reality of the lack of will to reform, open markets and weaken macroeconomic discipline. let's not be afraid to face the future!
mr president, i have a – positive – last-minute oral amendment to the report, which the council supports. it states that we approve the declaration attached to the report as agreed in the last-minute trialogue held a few minutes ago with the council. now this paragraph of the joint declaration should replace the report as such. this is a message signifying agreement with the council on the financial implications of the accession of bulgaria and romania. the substance is this: ‘we approve the joint declaration attached to the report, as agreed a few minutes ago with the council’.
mr president, the intention of our oral amendment is to replace the resolution as a whole by the declaration of the european parliament that states that the european parliament approves the joint declaration attached to the report as agreed in the trialogue of 13 april 2005. with your permission, i shall read the joint declaration agreed between the council presidency and parliament’s negotiating delegation, which is very short: ‘1. without prejudice of the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europea. the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting with the council declare that the amounts in title iii ‘financial provisions’ of the act of accession, annexed to the draft accession treaty submitted under the assent procedure of the european parliament, are mentioned without prejudice to the european parliament’s rights and the powers and prerogatives of the budgetary authority conferred by article 272 of the ec treaty and the relevant provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999. b. the council, the commission and the european parliament confirm that the classification of the expenditure in articles 30-34, title iii ‘financial provisions’ of the act of accession, annexed to the draft accession treaty will constitute non-compulsory expenditure after 2009.’ the second paragraph has caused the most controversy and reads: ‘2. the commission confirms that its proposal for a financial framework (2007-2013) is based on the assumption that bulgaria and romania will be member states on 1 january 2007. the european parliament and the council take note of the indicative amounts, for bulgaria and romania, provided by the commission in march 2004 and considered by the council in its conclusions of 22 march 2004 on ‘the financial package for the accession negotiations for bulgaria and romania’. the financing of the accession of bulgaria and romania will be ensured without jeopardising the commitments for existing multiannual programmes and the decisions on the next financial perspectives. 3. the european parliament, the council and the commission recall the importance of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 in the functioning of budgetary procedures and that this can only function if all the institutions comply fully.’ this is the joint declaration attached to the amended paragraph.
mr president, here in the european parliament we have a strong feeling that the past year has brought significant progress in the field of european security and defence policy and that it has made it possible to break the deadlock which has been the result of the dispute over iraq. we have a feeling that the european defence agency has been established and that it will be of great importance for the acquisition of new weapons. we feel that the constitutional treaty has introduced measures which give the esdp a future, in particular structural cooperation and the solidarity clause. it is also very important that the european commission has announced the design of a european security research programme, which from 2007 would have a budget of at least 1 billion euros, and finally, perhaps the most important event of last year was the takeover of the stabilisation mission in bosnia from nato - in fact, the first major military operation of the european union. in this context, we also have the feeling that the four questions we asked ourselves six years ago when the concept of a european security and defence policy was announced in cologne are still relevant. first, how do we ensure that our defence capabilities keep pace with our aspirations and our challenges, the challenges that are now enshrined in the european security strategy? secondly, how can the european security and defence policy be given the necessary coherence? thirdly, how can the esdp be developed without compromising the defence commitments of most of the countries of the european union, which are also members of nato? fourthly, how can we manage the resources rationally, both at national and community level? these are questions which are addressed primarily to the commission and the council, because the answers to these questions must be found together in the triangle of parliament, the council and the commission. if we do not find them, the european security and defence policy will be nothing but a fig leaf for our european impotence.
mr president, the common foreign and security policy of the union is not, as the sceptics would have it, a virtual policy, but it is also worse in practice than on paper. if the will to implement it is to be based mainly on the opinion polls cited by the authors of the draft resolutions, then this is a risky way to go. if tomorrow not 60% but 45% of the people in the union countries will support a common foreign policy and not 70% as is said today but 47% for a common defence policy, then should we suddenly abandon this concept? i'm wary of such a polling policy. we are divided in parliament, let's not hide it, as to the extent of support for the idea of a common security policy, a common foreign policy. but all of them agree on a few points: firstly, islamic terrorism is a real threat; secondly, the solution to various problems cannot start with military instruments; thirdly, let us closely follow experiments such as the joint military action of eufor in bosnia and herzegovina, of course the union had earlier a concordia mission in macedonia, but it was relatively small, or also police action, for example also in bosnia and herzegovina, or recently in africa. finally, we can all stress today the need to insist that the council comply with article 21 of the treaty on european union by consulting the main foreign policy activities for the coming year. this is not a favor from the council - it's an obligation!
mr president, we have received a document which is the record of the european strategy in the field of security policy, the most difficult policy that a state or an intergovernmental institution can carry out. it is a document that will be the basis, it will be the reference for formulating the consolidation of the policies of the member states, creating a more effective foreign policy. let us remember that the most expensive form of foreign policy is no foreign policy, and in many areas the european union is thus boasting of its capabilities without having a foreign policy. and the second banal truth, especially for those of you in this room who have been brainstorming for a while about militarization: there is no effective policy without defense capability, without military capability. let us also remember that if we have formulated our principles of building a concern for our security - a very broad concern for our security - we are in a good position to start talking to our american partner and to build, to rebuild a new kind of transatlantic relationship, where on one side of the atlantic are the united states, sometimes lost in the differences between what is "leadership" and what is "hegemony", and on the other side is the european union, which is only now finding its identity in this particular area. this process requires imagination, patience, but also qualifications, and i think that mr kuhni's report is a very good commitment for all the european institutions to think about european security in this way. secondly, it is characteristic that mr kuhni's report is discussed together with the annual report on foreign policy in the european union. it is a beautiful contribution, it is the perfect contribution of parliament to finally talk about european politics as something real and not virtual.
your honour, the european union has recently become an increasingly important actor in shaping the international political order, especially after its enlargement last year. the success of european integration translates into the attractiveness of the european political system for societies outside the union. in the united states, some analysts speak of european soft power, of the 'european dream' that is emerging before our eyes. terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, the collapse of states and organised crime require, on the one hand, a global character of the union's external action and, on the other, an increase in democratic accountability for these issues. to this end, it should already refer to the spirit and the provisions of the constitutional treaty in matters relating to the common foreign and security policy. the future european external action service should play a key role in this area, assisting the european union minister for foreign affairs. every effort should be made to give real meaning to the clause on solidarity in the field of defence provided for in the constitutional treaty as soon as it enters into force.
vice-president of the commission. i shall pass on that question to my colleague, mr mandelson, who is in charge of the file. i should like to say to mrs mann that i take note of and fully accept the recommendations. i will ensure that the issue is discussed at european-american business round tables and in other fora.
mr president, mr commissioner, in less than three weeks, the european union will have been enlarged for one year. for millions of citizens in central europe, it was the fulfillment of a dream of a common europe of fair rules and equal opportunities. in preparation for expansion, the new countries have opened their markets wide to the influx of western companies, goods, services and workers. they have done so very often in the atmosphere of heated internal debate and despite strong protests from many quarters, mainly workers, emphasising the need to protect domestic markets from unequal competition from the west, fearing the loss of their jobs. however, we understood that membership of the european union meant first and foremost participation in the common market, which guarantees freedom of economic activity throughout the community. at the same time, we were convinced that the european treaties set up fair rules for everyone, regardless of their country of origin. however, the last 11 months have provided numerous examples of discrimination against entrepreneurs and their employees from the new eu countries who intend to start their business in some of the 'old' eu countries. the most striking examples of discrimination occur in the netherlands, austria and italy. in these countries, the law allows for different treatment of companies and employees depending on whether they are from the "old 15" or the "new 10". this is particularly evident in the requirement to obtain work permits for posted workers before they start their activities. this procedure is always time-consuming, lasting up to 6 weeks in austria and is only applied to companies and workers from the new eu countries. the 'old 15' operators do not have to apply for a similar consent. in their case, a single page of information, together with a list of the staff seconded, lodged with the appropriate office shall suffice. they can therefore start the service without undue delay and any administrative control can be carried out during the execution of the order and without stopping the company's activities. this is therefore a clear example of discrimination sanctioned by national law, and the consequence of such regulations is to undermine the conditions of fair competition in the common eu market. in several other countries, however, despite the formal absence of discriminatory legislation, the behaviour of administrations and officials effectively prevents companies from the new member states from operating freely. i have in my hand complaints from businessmen who, despite meeting all the formal requirements, have been treated extremely negatively. control measures such as hand stamps, handcuffing, use of dogs, and even arrest, including abuse, were used against business owners and employees hired to carry out the orders. i regret to point out that germany and france are the countries where this type of behaviour is too common. i therefore ask the commissioner what action the commission intends to take to ensure that the treaty guarantees equality between companies and citizens. has the commission already analysed the member states' rules in order to guarantee fair conditions of competition for operators from the new eu countries? if so, what are the conclusions? if not, when will such an anti-discrimination review procedure be initiated? i would also like to stress the view, shared by many of my colleagues in this house, that without the commission's full commitment to combating discrimination against companies and workers from the new eu countries, the economic objectives of the lisbon strategy will not be achieved. in conclusion, i hope that the european commission is aware of this, and the presence of the vice-president of the commission, commissioner verheugen, in this debate gives us reason to hope that this is indeed the case.
vice-president of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if anyone in this house knows what the problems are in the new member states, it is i who was responsible for enlargement for five years. you don't have to lecture me. as regards the case in question, the commission has complaints concerning only one member state. the applicant claims that the new member state is required to issue a work permit to workers from the new member states who are posted or are to be posted to that member state in the course of providing services. this is contrary to community law. the commission has therefore taken the necessary steps against this member state, initiating infringement proceedings and will ensure that remedies are put in place. the commission has no further complaints. in particular, the commission has no complaints whatsoever concerning the freedom of establishment you mentioned, which did not come into force until 1 may 2004, but was already achieved in the mid-1990s. if you are aware of any cases of discrimination in relation to freedom of establishment, the commission would be grateful for information. the commission has only received formal complaints concerning the freedom to provide services in one member state and the necessary steps have been taken in that one.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. one of the most important foundations of the european union is the principle of equal treatment of operators from different member states. today we are talking about cases of discrimination against entrepreneurs and workers from the new member states in the markets of old europe. i therefore wonder whether it is appropriate for the french administration to ask a polish entrepreneur seeking to provide a service in france: 'what are you good at so that you can work in france?' my extensive research has shown that in most cases, smes in the new countries rarely report discrimination to the competent authorities. these entrepreneurs are usually on a limited budget and deliberately shy away from costly and lengthy legal proceedings; they simply fear further harassment by the host countries, because the position of the average entrepreneur in the face of the entire apparatus at the disposal of the state is extremely weak. the fight to defend the discriminated is one of the roles entrusted to us by our voters, which makes us the true guardians of the fundamental principles of the union, and it is worth asking ourselves: what would europe look like if we had not fought discrimination earlier? two issues are of key importance for the future of the union: firstly, the lisbon strategy and, secondly, the draft services directive. we all know that the emergence of discrimination paralyses the internal market and prevents it from functioning properly, and that without a well-functioning market the objectives of the lisbon strategy are unattainable. it is therefore in the interest of all of us to build a genuine internal market as a single economic body free of discrimination, which is impossible when numerous national barriers are created. in conclusion, i would like to say that the examples of discrimination in the internal market of the union which we have discussed here today are a sad indication of the failure of our common efforts to integrate, and if we do nothing to eliminate them, we will be the ones to suffer the consequences.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the union has pursued a consistent policy of encouraging the development of enterprise and competitiveness in relation to economically backward countries which were late to join the european union, such as spain, portugal, greece and ireland. this was reflected in the facilitation of access to community markets and, consequently, in the surplus in the trade balance of the acp countries. this was one of the most important foundations for the rapid growth of employment, tax revenues, investment and, consequently, rapid economic growth. the facilitated access to community markets has enabled the least developed countries to significantly reduce the gap between them and the most developed countries. have the post-communist countries aspiring to the european union been given a similar opportunity? the answer is no. instead of solidarity and help, the union used its own strength, capital advantage, the subservience and corruption of the authorities, and the very fact of adoption delayed by forcing additional concessions. the most obvious manifestation of this policy was the negative balance of poland's trade balance with the european union, amounting to over eur 10 billion per year. it was not in poland, but in the union that jobs and profits were created. it was in poland, not in the union, that unemployment and poverty increased. what, then, was the opening of the polish market to eu companies and the subsequent accession of poland to the european union for polish companies? first, they allow for unequal competition with companies with technological and capital advantages. secondly, by allowing the takeover of polish companies, banks, financial institutions by the companies of the union, often not paying taxes in poland and not investing in poland, and worse, transferring profits abroad. thirdly, they were willing to bear the enormous costs and sacrifices of modernising companies to comply with the requirements, norms, standards of the union. fourthly, by agreeing to costly and burdensome administrative and bureaucratic procedures and regulations, by agreeing to tax arrangements that impair the competitiveness of polish companies and increase labour costs, an example of which is vat. fifthly, by accepting the quotas, limits and production restrictions imposed by the union in relatively competitive and modern sectors such as the polish shipbuilding industry or in products of attractive quality such as food. today, almost a year after poland's accession to the eu, it is clear that despite the restrictions and difficulties imposed, polish companies are able to be competitive, export and work better. this also applies to individuals. in this situation, the governments and local administrations of the member states are making further attempts to restrict the access of polish operators to the union market. this is reflected in the rules on services, i.e. the part of the market which generates 70% of the gross national product and at the same time creates almost 100% of new jobs. another manifestation is restrictions on polish companies or their construction workers, where restrictive regulations go hand in hand with the zeal of local officials. complaints against such proceedings to local offices are not answered. surprisingly, this bureaucratic overzealousness is lacking where polish workers are employed in low-paid positions, either in the informal sector or in jobs of low social prestige. so the question is: what is the european union and what does it want to be? is solidarity, the eradication of differences, rapid development, the common market, all just propaganda and phrases? poland and the other post-communist countries can no longer back down from their concessions to the union, because they have nowhere else to go. that is why polish entrepreneurs, and we in the european parliament, the members of parliament, will fight to defend them. we expect swift and decisive decisions to remove the causes and manifestations of discrimination. we don't want too much, we just want equal rights and equal playing field. we will fight until victory or the collapse of the european union!
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, let me thank my colleague from the district, jack protasiewicz, for taking up this case. lower silesia is represented here by as many as four speakers, which gives the position of the leader of the defense of this case, it is glorious, thank you very much. enlargement has brought many economic benefits not only to the new countries, but also enormous economic benefits to the union as a whole, in particular potential ones. this happened because the new countries offered a little bit lower taxes, a little bit cheaper labor, while stabilizing the legal environment for doing business, also through integration. these countries are therefore the hope of the european union, not the threat, as is often the case in the tone of some speeches. this is why we strongly oppose the situation in which polish, czech and hungarian entrepreneurs encounter deliberate administrative obstacles to their business activities in the countries of the old union. unfortunately, that's true in all 10 states. closing the common market to these entrepreneurs is not only detrimental to the new states, it is not only detrimental to integration by reducing the level of confidence of the european peoples in the process of integration, but above all it is detrimental to european prosperity. in the background, of course, there's the tax and social policy debate. the socialist idea that the competition of tax or social systems is 'dumping' is directed against the welfare of all europeans, and we will not agree to that. we can either opt for a plurality of tax and social arrangements in europe, or we can lose out to a partner far more distant than the new countries, china and india. we can continue to close the door to polish and other entrepreneurs, but let us remember that this is the way to the ossification of europe in a deepening economic stagnation. the european commission should not be concerned with the vague ideas of harmonizing the various areas of economic law, including tax law, but rather with completing what has been fundamental for almost 50 years - the completion of the common market.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on your election and on your participation in this first session. commissioner, today's outcome of the debate is most timely for all those businesses and citizens who believe that the enlarged union is a level playing field and who want to sell what is most important to them, namely their jobs. for all those who have tried, they face unequal treatment, lawbreaking by government and regional administration in the form of onerous checks, often with the use of dogs, police officers including interference in the personal property of every man, like arrest with handcuffs and putting blindfolds on their hands, it means the end of work in the european union. these companies, these people, they'll never want to work, to provide services in these countries again. is this what the services market and the provision of jobs in a united europe should look like? how can we, the representatives of our constituents, not defend their rights in the european union? i've never heard of such treatment in poland, where there are many thousands of foreign companies, and most of the industry and banks are in the hands of foreign capital. polish organisations, businesses, ministries and embassies have been hit by numerous instances of discrimination against polish companies and polish citizens who provide services as subcontractors to european companies. the standard example that struck me is the example of one of the companies in poznan, the company apoli, whose employees and representatives were intimidated, arrested, harassed by the police, the french administration in the department of gard. in many cases, it's human nature or inhumanity, officials, and misreading of the rules. it is not a matter of complaining, in a general sense, to nations or governments, but it is a matter for parliament to discuss. therefore, after today's debate, a resolution should be produced condemning and stigmatizing such examples of lawbreaking. finally, and to add to this another example of discrimination on grounds of nationality, would you allow discrimination against polish nurses and midwives who, as a result of the commission's introduction, for poles only, of the obligation to have completed five years' professional experience within the seven-year period before the issue of a certificate of qualification, cannot practise in the union. the requirement of three years' experience over a five-year period applies to nationals of all the other 24 countries. this not only deprives them of the opportunity to work, the loss of their existing rights, but above all it undermines their professional dignity in accordance with the provisions of european law. i have been waiting for weeks for a reply from the commission and for several hundred thousand nurses and midwives to respond to a petition from the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's economy is in a bad way, especially the economies of germany and france, and it turns out that everyone is to blame: the united states is to blame because the dollar is too low, the far east is to blame because it uses slave labour, the new accession countries are to blame because they are pursuing a really healthy, competitive economic policy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european union's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. ladies and gentlemen, when commissioner bolkestein's good draft directive was drawn up, all the supporters of the so-called social economy threw themselves at it, and all it took was an angry wink from paris and berlin to throw the good draft directive into the trash. of course there are other methods, there is the possibility of discrimination and this discrimination is being used and my predecessors have spoken about this, citing a long list of these discriminated persons and companies. i am surprised that commissioner verheugen, who, i stress, enjoys great sympathy in poland, should say that he has received only one complaint concerning one country. i, as chairman of the committee on petitions, have drawn up a list of cases of discrimination and have forwarded it to you, commissioner, to the dutch presidency and to commissioner bolkestein. i regret that one commissioner is not in a position to pass on this information to another. if you, commissioner, who, as i emphasize, is very popular in poland, claim that you know nothing about this, then we are helpless, because who are we to tell, since there is no circulation of information within the commission. the lisbon strategy and the stability and growth pact were intended to make the european economy a leading economy, but they have not made it a leading economy. today, it is only said enigmatically that it is to be one of the leading economies - this is the fundamental difference. we've heard a great deal of complaint here about the bridgwater company moving from england to kansas. well, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want companies to move to poland or the czech republic or slovakia, you'll have them move to kansas or move to the far east. europe was to be built on internal solidarity and external competitiveness. there's no one or the other. we're sorry about that. there's an indian proverb that says, "if you find out your rider is not a mustang, but a dead mare, you stop riding him". i urge that we stop riding on the dead mare of the social economy, the inefficient european union, and especially france and germany.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is europe a, the old union, and europe b, the new union. and europe is a europe that is mindless, short-sighted, uncompetitive, a europe that cuts the branch it is sitting on. europe b is the new union, which is formally invited to the eu's salons, but is actually discriminated against. you want this game!? please keep doing that! i wonder what the result of the constitutional referendum in the czech republic and poland will be! are these two different things to you? of course, formally, yes, but how will you convince the citizens of the member states of the new union? "younger cousins, support the constitution of a united europe, but the united market of the union - you're out!" that's a very short-sighted way of thinking. the countries, governments, societies and companies that do this are funding euroscepticism in europe. they don't overwhelm the old, they create new divisions. it is not even national or sectoral selfishness, it is just stupidity with fatal political consequences, but also economic, it is a foolish action, also from the point of view of consumers in the countries of the old union. it's time to sober up, ladies and gentlemen!
ladies and gentlemen, the issue of discrimination against workers and companies from the new member states in the internal market of the european union has been raised here on many occasions. i personally drew attention to this problem more than seven months ago, but i regret to say that nothing has changed since then. so once again today so many members from the so-called new union are drawing your attention to the clear cases of breaches of european law in this respect. in addition to the so-called transitional periods for the new ten, we are increasingly faced with the legal and administrative barriers applied by the old fifteen. this practice interferes with the right to freedom of establishment and the freedom to conduct a business, guaranteed by the treaty, of legal entities established in the territory of the european union. there are already many proven cases of discrimination in the national legislation of the old member states, which is also unacceptable in the light of european union law. the clear opposition of countries such as france, belgium and germany to the discussion on the liberalisation of services in the bolkestein directive is also evidence of another attempt to discriminate against companies from the new member states. it is surprising that the countries that agreed to enlarge the european union and integrate with the countries of central and eastern europe, an integration aimed at building a unified, strong economic and social body, are now making it difficult to achieve this goal. this is not the union we voted for in the referendums before last year's accession. i would like to call on the european commission to intervene in this matter and to take appropriate action to put an end to discriminatory practices against the new member states.
the next item is the oral question by mr nikolaos sifunakis to the commission on the fight against doping in sport (o-0036/2005 - b6-0168/2005).
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the culture and education committee says that at the athens olympics, it was clear that doping in sports was a real threat, and that the number of doping cases at the last olympics was so high because the international olympic committee, with its new head, jacques rogge, had finally started to really fight doping. it's often a matter of political will. we remember how the u.s. olympic committee covered up for its athletes who were doping, especially the lightweight athletes. it's only recently ended. let's be clear, the fight against doping is not just a fight against the ambitions of some athletes, coaches, activists, it's a fight against the big doping industry, a powerful lobby with big money. the measures in this fight are: firstly, the severity of the penalties - immediately, for example, an absolute ban on racing for life; secondly, the unambiguousness of the rules - so that there are no equal and more equal ones; and thirdly, new methods of detecting increasingly sophisticated, as the previous speakers have said, forms of doping. sport, like politics, will probably never be completely clean, but it can certainly be cleaner, and that is the direction the proposed resolution is taking, and i thank the authors and the rapporteur for that.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened very attentively to the comments of the members present. your commitment is clearly strong, as is ours, to do what we can to have an effective campaign against doping in sport. as has been pointed out, doping has far-reaching effects on our societies, not least on young people. the commission will have a clear legal basis with the entry into force of the constitution. in the meantime, we will continue to take the necessary action to prepare the groundwork for this. parliament has rightly pointed out a number of levels on which the issue can be tackled. the commission believes that prevention is an important facet of our efforts. our actions must therefore focus on education, research and information. commissioner figeľ is committed to moving this issue forward within the context of budgetary means and in preparation for the constitution’s entry into force. i now turn to some specific points that have been raised. firstly, with regard to relations with federations and with the world anti-doping agency – wada – mr figeľ is keen to develop such relations and has already held a number of meetings to that effect. on the possibility of financing wada, i should like to point out that we finance wada on a case-by-case basis through projects. we do not finance the structure of wada owing to certain problems of which we are all aware. regarding research, as i mentioned, commissioners figeľ and potočnik are working together and we can be hopeful of a good outcome in that regard. on the point raised concerning a european plan, i wish to remind you of the existence of the support plan of 1999. the constitution’s entry into force will give us a more solid basis for moving forward. a point was raised with respect to equal opportunities in sport. commissioner figeľ is committed to this aspect and takes it very much into account. our source of inspiration is the fraisse report adopted by parliament in 2003. a point was raised concerning the unesco convention on doping. the commission follows the work of this body and will continue to do so in the future. i have also taken note of the suggestion made by mr beazley and will forward it to mr figeľ. the commission welcomes parliament’s resolution on combating doping in sport. the commission has been very active and has been taking initiatives in this field for the last six years, as i pointed out in my introductory remarks. we intend to continue our efforts, with the support of the member states and the european parliament. parliament’s resolution will help the commission, in cooperation with parliament, to continue its work and actions on doping. the commission has no objection to amendments 1 and 2. amendment 2, in particular, could contribute to an effective fight against doping.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral question by mr sifunakis to the commission on the draft unesco convention on cultural diversity (o-0037/2005 - b6-0169/20005).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing culture today, but there is a problem: what do we call culture? is culture the whole environment of a person and his whole way of life, or just the cultural products? the kind of products like paintings, sculptures, architecture, music, and most of all, movies that we've been talking about today. we realize that the role of public patronage has always played a significant role in culture, but we must realize that it is not the decisive role. when we talk about the great art of the italian renaissance, we naturally think of the role of the medici, or the role of the popes. but that's not what made the renaissance in italy really flourish at that time, and it's not what made the german princes' patronage of music in the 18th and 19th centuries great. no one decided that chopin was born and created in poland. culture cannot be managed and we must realise that all our actions are not a determinant of european success. we have to realize that there is also a market and why today we remember and remember the great italian films of the 50s, 60s, 70s, and today we are talking mainly about american cinema. italian and french films from the same period, or even polish cinema, despite communism, which was quite good at the time, were successful. american movies are having a big success today. of course, the public media plays a huge role here, but unfortunately they don't always play their role because they often fall into a commercialism. we have to realize that this is a complaint that european films in america are almost non-existent, and american films in europe are definitely dominant, so let's not worry about it too much. let's remember that american art and culture is, in fact, a version of european art. and we don't give up james or hemingway or steinbeck because they were americans. let's be positive, the world is influenced by european culture, even if in some cases it is an american edition.
in writing. the majority of this brilliant text is related to provisions of the constitutional treaty. i consider this step premature and undermining the sole competence of the member states in pushing still undecided adoption of the treaty. therefore i vote against the report.
mr. president, bangladesh is a very young country, exactly 34 years and 19 days old, and it is a very poor country. although poverty has decreased by about 1% per year over the last 10 years, about 50% of the population still lives below the poverty line, and child mortality is 325,000 per year, or 900 per day. 26,000 women in bangladesh die every year from complications of childbirth, on average every 20 minutes. between 30 and 50 percent of newborns are underweight, 30 percent of the population has no access to clean water at all. of course, we can be happy that in the last 10 years, access to sanitation has doubled to 43 percent. today's debate is political in nature, but i see it as an excuse to show the drama of the former east bengal - today's bangladesh. it is good that the european parliament is dealing with this.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many things in this report that we like and some that we would like to improve. the question of the arms embargo on china is certainly one of them, but let me deal in my speech with some of the amendments which were tabled to this report and which were rejected by the committee on foreign affairs and which have now returned to the plenary. in the last few months, almost every time we talk about aids, almost every time we talk about women's rights in the world, in europe, almost every time we talk about the goals of our humanitarian policy, some of us invoke reproductive health rights, and this implies, as defined by the world health organization, a vote on abortion. i cannot understand, in recognition of the goodwill of all of us here in parliament, of all of us in europe, that the issue of abortion, which is morally unacceptable and cruel to so many people in the world, can be brought up so often, so lightly and so unceremoniously. this is a case of very many amendments to this report. even if we are not all sure that we are dealing with human life at its very beginning, in the early stages of pregnancy, then certainly no one can rationally assume that we are not dealing with human life in those first days, weeks, months of pregnancy, with 100% certainty, we cannot be so sure. no one today can rule out that abortion may mean an attack on a defenseless, defenseless human life. if we are not sure, we should ask ourselves, is it worth the risk? do we want to be seen by future generations as we see those who support racism or slavery today? do we want to be seen as people who recognized the problem of inequality because of race or background, but were completely blind to the fact that they treated people unequally because of their developmental stage? if we don't want to take that risk, we should avoid abortion and reproductive rights in our documents. certainly all the goals of our humanitarian policy can be achieved without invoking abortion and reproductive rights. we'll be able to do it much more unanimously and in solidarity. thank you for your attention, but please accept these words not as a declaration of political confrontation, but as words of good will from someone who believes in european unity, who believes that europe has a vocation to pursue a moral policy that does not offer the world the recipes that we ourselves in europe are so divided about. (applause from the right)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we citizens of the new accession countries are very pleased because this great problem of which we are speaking today, the problem of human rights, fortunately no longer directly concerns us, in the sense that in our countries it can be said that human rights are being violated as they were violated during the previous 50 years under the german occupation and then under the communist regime. but we have to say with the greatest shame that there is still an incredible amount of human rights violations in the world, and for very basic reasons, unacceptable reasons that should not seem to exist in today's world. religious issues: catholics are persecuted in many countries, in china today catholics have no rights, in many other countries it's the same. we remember what happened with the burning of churches, we remember what happened in indonesia. national issues: how is it possible that a state like china can persecute people who it calls its citizens, but who are not its citizens, because the people of tibet have the right to their own state. how can the world look at this calmly, how can you even raise the issue of lifting the embargo on china, which of course has no decisive influence, but is a testimony of the morality that we should preserve in this case. members of the public - chechnya: how is it possible that today it is believed that russia can be a normal partner in political relations, when russia not only kills a moderate chechen politician, but barbarically refuses to release his body and says that this body is buried in an anonymous grave, because it deserves nothing else. the persecution of our own citizens, as in cuba, as in belarus, as in darfur, as in the case of the common bandit, is almost unnoticed by the world, although i know that we have discussed all this in this house. if we can imagine that it is possible to persecute the pygmies like this, to hunt them down just to treat them like ordinary game. ladies and gentlemen, we have a very serious problem. in colonial times, states took more or less responsibility for the order of their colonies. today we see very often the collusion of entrepreneurs who, without any control of their own state, on the contrary, with the support of their own state, corrupt local rulers in order to exploit these societies, formerly colonial, in a way that they were not exploited even in colonial times. in this light, the case reported in the press that a request was received from the paris military tribunal to open proceedings on the complicity of french soldiers in the genocide and crimes against humanity committed in rwanda in 1994 would require clarification. it is bodies such as our parliament that are obliged to stand guard over these fundamental human rights and to check the great powers of the world whether they are not complicit in these very worst violations of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are not only an important issue in africa, asia and latin america, but also in europe. we must emphasize this in the context of russia, belarus, ukraine, moldova, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and montenegro, because human rights are being violated in the countries that are neighbouring us, in the union. it's not far away, it's not exotic, it's happening in the same european house, in the apartment next door. the second issue is the fight against terrorism, the greatest transnational threat facing us. the need for solidarity between european countries is lacking, for example in the case of the blacklisting of terrorist organisations. what is really needed is a united european voice, not the particular interests of the larger states of the old union. i am sorry to see that this report does not highlight the persecution of religious minorities, especially christians, in some countries of africa and asia.
your honour, we are witnessing a new wave of democracy in eastern europe, the middle east, the caucasus, central asia and africa. the elections in ukraine have revealed the enormous potential of citizenship in the european union's neighbouring countries and in countries for which the european union is the main political, economic and cultural reference point. this process includes the adoption of a constitution and elections in afghanistan, free elections in palestine and iraq, as well as large-scale civil demonstrations in lebanon and liberalization processes in other countries. in belarus, a country neighbouring the european union, the people are rebelling against authoritarian rule and it is to be hoped that a democratic breakthrough will soon take place there too. the european union should now pay particular attention to helping civil society in belarus, its struggle for fundamental human rights and democracy. in some countries, we are seeing improvements in human rights. in uzbekistan, an amnesty decree was issued in december 2004 which provided for the release of 5,400 persons. in august 2003, the oliy majlis, the parliament of uzbekistan, amended the criminal code to make torture and other inhuman treatment of persons a crime punishable by law at every stage of criminal proceedings. the european parliament, while calling for the release of all remaining political prisoners, the strengthening of an independent judiciary and further reforms in the field of human rights, should also take note of uzbekistan's efforts to combat the use of torture and to improve the situation of detainees. the measures to end press censorship in the country should also be welcomed.
mr president, the european union can be proud of the importance it attaches to respect for human rights in the world. it's one of her main calling cards. and just as we once listened behind the iron curtain to the voice of the free world, which came to us on the radio waves of free europe, bbc, radio france international, or voice of america, giving us hope that the dawn of freedom and civil liberties would one day dawn on us, so today we want all those who suffer persecution for their beliefs, for their religions, who are imprisoned under various pretexts in the prisons of the grim dictatorships, to hear that here in the heart of europe we remember them and we demand their release and the end of persecution. in thanking the rapporteur for his work, i would like to add a few comments to this text. the report, paragraph 12, calls on moldova and ukraine to solve the problem of transnistria, when it is clear that it is impossible to finally solve the problem of this self-proclaimed republic without the participation of russia, which supports it. libya has held bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor for five years on the absurd charge of knowingly and willfully poisoning 450 children with hiv in a hospital in benghazi. they've been sentenced to death, and there's an appeal in a month. the european commission should demand their release. i would also like to call on the european commission to pay particular attention to the discrimination faced by christians and christian churches in muslim countries. the report only mentions eritrea as a country that persecutes christians, and does not mention the fate of christians in sudan. i am asking the european commission to draw up a detailed report on the situation of christian churches in the middle east, africa, china and turkey.
mr president, i would like to refer to this paragraph in the report which concerns belarus. according to the report, belarus is increasingly becoming an island in the middle of the continent. the kidnappings and murders of opposition members, electoral fraud, the imprisonment of protesters and the muzzling of the press are being followed by the recently imposed bans on studying abroad without the permission of the authorities or restrictions on traveling abroad to work legally. polish citizens, whose trucks and cars are confiscated for carrying three cartons of cigarettes, are also experiencing the "benefits" of this collective-farm communism. how can we look at the union's immediate neighbour in peace and even develop european rules for crossborder cooperation when we hear every day about human rights violations in that country? just yesterday, more than 40 protesters were arrested for commemorating the anniversary of the chernobyl nuclear reactor explosion. the efforts of the european commission and the council can be seen as a brake on the transformation process in belarus, as it has been almost six months since the parliament's resolution on the matter and nothing is really happening. projects to support civil society are being analysed, discussed, and quietly debated at subsequent seminars and summits. the commission does not see any added value in the need to finance radio stations broadcasting from neighbouring countries, i.e. it does not see any benefit from the value of free media and alternative information to belarusian propaganda. there is talk of a common policy with russia towards belarus, so i ask the question: what human rights and how can we protect them together with russia in belarus? does this mean we're waiting for a hysterical dictator to hurt more and more of his own citizens? or should the problems of the union's immediate neighbour be dealt with by the americans, because the union is closer to the problems in madagascar?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the first days of my mandate as a member of the european parliament, i have been hearing discussions and statements concerning the roma, or gypsies as they are known in polish. who are the gypsies and who are they? is it the ethnic group mentioned in the draft resolution, or is it a nation without a state? if we are talking about an ethnic group whose members are citizens of all european countries, then the solution to the problems is relatively simple, because every european country must have the same rights and the same treatment for its citizens without discrimination and xenophobia. but remember that while citizens have certain rights, they also have certain obligations to the state and to other citizens. it's worse, or it's pretty bad, when we're talking about a stateless nation. who's gonna defend him? so with those answers, let's start solving problems. recently, the debate has intensified with the accession of two new countries to the european union: romania and bulgaria. romania is widely considered the largest homeland of the gypsies, who originally came from distant india. for over 600 years, the roma have been unwilling or unable to assimilate into the societies of the countries in which they live. during this period, the animosities between the two groups grew rather than diminished. despite the many measures taken, the disparities in development, education and living standards among the roma are not diminishing, but increasing.
member of the commission. i think that the debate we have just had was extremely deep and concerned the issue of the roma ethnicity, the discrimination against the roma and the social and political position of the roma in a number of respects. i think the range of opinions or perspectives was quite complete and is a good basis for further consideration of the resolution you propose. the questions raised during the debate underline the importance and urgency of action in favour of the social inclusion of roma at european, national and regional level. the support of parliament, and i consider your initiative to be extremely important, will help us to mobilise all the actors involved and to build the necessary political will. the presence of roma members in your assembly is valuable because it is a kind of introduction to a european debate on the real lives and status of roma communities. as for the commission, it will continue its efforts to ensure that all relevant policies and programmes contribute coherently and effectively to the inclusion of roma as well as other disadvantaged groups. we need to deepen our analysis in terms of the real needs of the different groups, as well as in terms of the areas where action in the european regions can bring added value. i think it would be useful for the commission to seek advice from a number of personalities and experts in this area and i will consider the best way of setting up such a group. i will also propose to president barroso that the situation of the roma be discussed at one of the next meetings of the group of commissioners for fundamental rights, non-discrimination and equal opportunities. ladies and gentlemen, 2007 will be the year of equal opportunities, with a series of actions by the commission and, of course, with a corresponding emphasis on the roma issue. ladies and gentlemen, there have been some historical excursions and reflections in your discussion, and i think it is right to remember that the history of the roma in europe is a history of persecution, and a history of persecution so cruel that we often cannot even imagine it. let me paraphrase a decree of the austrian emperor leopold i from the end of the 17th century, which said that if roma enter the territory of a village, they must be killed, including children, and that anyone who does not act in this drastic way will be punished. the history of europe is very cruel in this respect. ladies and gentlemen, in one of the speeches it was said that the european union is the only hope for the roma. i think that to formulate this idea as the only certainty is certainly not a position that i would take, because there are undoubtedly many other organisations and other political efforts, but in any case the european union, and we can be proud of that, has advanced in the field of equal opportunities for human rights in a way that is exemplary despite all the imperfections and inconsistencies and despite all the work that we still have to do.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the next item is minute speeches on significant political issues.
mr. chairman, together with mr. roszkowski, we asked the house to remember and pay tribute to the officers who were brutally murdered in an act of terrorism by the soviet nkvd in katyn in april 1940. the president of parliament replied that we must not forget such dates, such historical tragedies, and i thank him for that. at the same time, he wrote that the presidency of the parliament had decided not to use a minute of silence for these victims. i'm sorry for that. before i make my proposal to parliament, i would like to take 10 seconds of my time to pay tribute to those officers and the families of the katyn people, and perhaps some of the members of parliament will join me in the silence. mr president, i propose that the 5th of march be proclaimed by this parliament as the day of the struggle against totalitarianism of all kinds. on march 5, 1940, stalin's team was arrested for this barbaric decision of genocide.
mr president, even during the communist era in my homeland, poland, the intoxication of children and those parents who, for the sake of peace of mind or recklessness, gave alcohol to minors were condemned, which was especially the case in families from the social margins, unaware of the harm caused by alcohol and other addictive substances. addiction at any age, but especially in the young, leads to destruction and self-destruction, responsible for immense mental and physical suffering. the fact that alcohol is produced in various forms, for children as 'alcopops' or in powdered or sacheted forms, which, as we heard at the envi meeting, is accepted by the european commission as part of the defence of the free market, is therefore reprehensible and even calls for vengeance. even in a liberal world, the intoxication of children and young people cannot be tolerated, and we therefore demand that the eu institutions also respect the law it has established and impose strict penalties for non-compliance with the rules prohibiting the consumption of alcohol by minors and the production of fictitious alcoholic beverages that are prepared with children and young people in mind in order to make them dependent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we, the representatives of the new member states of the european union, are concerned by the latest information on the luxembourg presidency's proposals for the european union's budget for 2007-13. they are unfavourable to the new members, especially the czech republic and hungary, but also to my country, poland. this is particularly the case with the reduction in the percentage of gdp allocated to the union budget by the member states and, what is particularly unfair, the reduction of the financial aid ceiling below 4% of gdp. i would emphasize that this would be a unilateral change to the accession treaties with poland and the other new countries. is this the famous european solidarity that was talked about before the accession referendums in our countries? is this an example of european cohesion? to these questions, you will give yourselves, and let us all give ourselves here together, an honest, reliable and sincere answer.
i'm closing the session on the minute-long speeches.
the next item is the report by milan cabrnoch (a6-0085/2005) on the modernisation of social protection and the development of good quality healthcare [2004/2189 ((ini)).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, the guarantee of health care is the primary role of the state, derived from the subjective rights acquired by each citizen. the state should be obliged to maintain and financially secure the necessary forms of medical assistance. liberal approaches and the privatisation and commercialisation of services stimulated by various legislative acts will not adequately safeguard areas such as prevention, maternal and child care, civilization diseases, geriatric, palliative, which are deficient but necessary and very important from the point of view of public health. we know that investing in health is investing in people, just as we are investing in education. with only a few minutes to present our position, we consider the need for public health care and its development to be paramount, with access for all, both those who have the means to treat themselves and those who do not. so far, no ideal system of healthcare organization or healthcare financing has been invented, and every system, both insurance and budgetary in general, has its advantages and disadvantages, so it seems that the best solution is a mixed system, with strong guarantees of the social rights of healthcare workers and patients. public hospitals, prevention and all deficit departments must be financed with public money. the modernisation of social protection to develop and improve healthcare has been the subject of many lofty slogans, especially in eu legislation, but they are often contradictory, which only exacerbates the already difficult social and health situation in many countries, resulting from rising costs, bloodthirsty capitalism and a lack of respect for moral principles. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that the health services are not covered by the directive. in order to guarantee good care, health cannot be treated as a productive part of the economy and health services as mere commercial services. for example, one company, after obtaining approval in europe for one of its cancer drugs, expects to sell a huge sum of 13 billion swiss francs. i hear from people in this building that poor europe cannot afford long-term treatment and that euthanasia is better, that is, simply getting rid of the trouble by killing. this is not the way to modernise social protection in order to develop and improve health care. there is one piece of advice for an aging society, and that is to change the way we think about and protect the unborn, and everything else, along with moral standards, will lead to an improvement not only in the quality of health care, but also in the way it works. moreover, the enormous administrative growth, corruption, bureaucracy, and the constantly printing of new laws, reports, opinions, declarations, and similar or identical lists do not help to improve health care, adding to the costs and time of not only the administration but also the doctors and nurses who are supposed to serve the sick.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, as the report says, health care accounts for only 10% of a person's health, the rest is a lot of other factors, such as social status, unemployment, lack of a satisfactory sense of security for people who are left without means of subsistence. i therefore believe that, although the member states are responsible for the health care of their citizens, the european union should develop a minimum social model that does not prevent richer countries from having better social and health care systems, but guarantees all countries a certain minimum. i think the european union should have the right to see what the minimum social security benefit is in each member state, in poland it is 100 euros and we are dreaming of 250, and what the situation is in health care. polish doctors make 400 euros a month and they're paid in bribes.
member of the commission. mr president, as i indicated earlier, this report marks the start of a new era in financial services. i thank mrs van den berg for her very stimulating report and the considerable effort that has gone into producing it. based on this report and our consultation with other stakeholders, next week, on 3 may, i intend to present to the college of commissioners a green paper on financial services policy for the next five years. i will present this paper to the committee on economic and monetary affairs in more detail on 9 may. the commission’s green paper will be open for public consultation until 1 august. our final policy conclusions, deriving from all this work, are planned for the end of this year. a number of issues were raised and i will try to respond to some of them. mrs van den berg and mrs kauppi referred to the ‘himalaya’ report. the commission thinks integration needs to be accompanied by matching supervisory structures: the more integrated the markets, the more integrated and convergent the supervisory structures must also be. for the time being, i consider the lamfalussy structures to be sufficient, but they need to be closely and continuously monitored and adapted, or further developed if needed. only after careful assessment might future initiatives be necessary, with strict application of the subsidiarity principle. a number of speakers, including mrs van den berg and mrs kauppi, mentioned the so-called 26th regime. that regime may sound attractive in its simplicity, but in practice it will require some degree of harmonisation across the board, whether legal or in terms of tax, language, etc. the benefits of those 26th regime schemes remain to be proven, and reaching an agreement on optional european standards designed for only certain products will be difficult. however, i take note of the current debate and will respond to the call to explore such 26th regime schemes further, as explicitly expressed in the van den berg report. both mrs van den berg and mrs berès mentioned retail markets. we agree that there are important barriers to integration of retail financial services markets. the integration of retail markets is complex and demanding. however, this should not be the conclusion but our starting point. product characteristics, distribution systems, consumer protection, contract law, differences in consumption, culture or other economic or structural realities play a prominent role in the retail area and create considerable complexity for cross-border supply and demand. these barriers, however, have their origin in the fragmentation of the european market for historic reasons. the commission does not accept the argument that, as european integration increases, this fragmentation is there to stay. in ten years from now, the retail market will look completely different to the market of today. our role is to anticipate and facilitate this development and not shy away from new initiatives. mr purvis and mrs berès raised the question of asset management. we will look to act only after the issues have been identified and potential solutions found. where objectives can be achieved by non-legislative action, we will obviously choose this route. we might also need to address this question of legislative changes if they present the only way to secure single market freedoms in the area of investment funds. mr radwan raised a number of issues, including one on the standards issued on clearing and settlement. i must point out that the commission is not bound in any way by the escb cesr standards, and any policy decisions which might be enshrined in a possible future directive on clearing and settlement will take precedence over the escb cesr standards. mr radwan also raised the question of the democratic governance and political accountability of rule-setters. last week i was in the united states. you will note that we are working hard to influence the reform process under way within the international accounting standards board. we are looking carefully at the arrangements proposed for the international accounting and auditing standards board, which will elaborate national standards and auditing. during that recent visit to the united states, we made good progress in some of these areas. mr wohlin raised the question of the new framework for capital requirements. they offer a range of approaches. for those banks moving to the simplest approaches, the changes from the existing standards of basel i are not huge, so the costs of implementation are reasonably small. banks moving to more sophisticated approaches will have to spend more, but they will do so only if this is a sensible business decision and the benefits will outweigh the costs. members raised other points, which i hope will be taken up in the time ahead. in conclusion, i refer to what i said earlier: there is a considerable degree of convergence between the thinking in the european parliament, the council, industry, consumers and the commission. i am convinced the coming five years will be extremely challenging. as the foundations for good collaboration between the institutions have been laid, i am sure we will be successful. (applause)
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for his overall support for the commission's proposal. this proposal has its origins in two observations. firstly, reciprocity is a key principle in the field of visas. second, the mechanism provided for in regulation no 539/2001 to ensure that reciprocity is respected is inadequate, mainly because of its rigidity and automatic nature. as a result, the mechanism has never been used for more than three years, since the regulation actually entered into force, even though non-reciprocity situations persisted with regard to former member states and the number of non-reciprocity cases increased dramatically with the arrival of new member states. the commission has therefore proposed a more flexible and realistic mechanism, which is thus more credible and effective. each case of non-reciprocity will be notified. the commission will play an active role vis-à-vis the third country which introduced the visa requirement. it shall report to the council on the situation of non-reciprocity thus created and, if appropriate, propose the reintroduction of the visa requirement for nationals of the third country concerned. the amendments proposed by mr lax pursue three different objectives. the first objective is to extend the mechanism to cover a range of situations which are not only covered by the visa exemption but also by the conditions for issuing visas. this extension is contrary to the legal basis of the regulation. moreover, by attempting to cover a whole series of issues which are in reality of lesser importance, it would risk weakening the reciprocity mechanism which must remain focused on a key issue and felt as such by citizens: namely the maintenance of the visa requirement by third countries which are themselves exempted from this requirement by our member states. the hague programme confirms that this is a problem which must be tackled as a matter of priority. the second objective is to avoid situations of non-reciprocity lasting indefinitely and to include the possibility of responding with measures under the foreign policy. i share the general approach of this amendment and i must say to the rapporteur that the political orientation which emerged at the jha council on 24 february is along the same lines. however, i cannot accept that the commission's right of initiative be limited to a proposal for interim measures, nor, for reasons of legal basis, that the commission's right of initiative in this context be extended to proposals for measures in areas other than visa policy. the third objective is to involve the european parliament at all stages of the procedure. of course, the necessary transparency must be ensured, but the reciprocity mechanism must remain a flexible instrument which can be used quickly and which, and this is the essential point, must allow for an interim measure. the provisional reintroduction of the visa requirement for a third country is different from the transfer of that country to the list of visa-exempt countries annexed to regulation no 539/2001. such a transfer is an amendment to the regulation and as such is decided, of course, by the council after consulting the european parliament. finally, with a strengthened reciprocity mechanism, the commission will be equipped to respond to the solemn invitation addressed to it by the european council of 4 and 5 november 2004: to continue our efforts to ensure that citizens of all member states can, as soon as possible, travel without a visa for short stays in all countries whose nationals can travel to the union without a visa.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, the visa reciprocity mechanism that has operated so far in the european union's visa policy has meant very strict sanctions that could be applied to a third country after the notification of the country affected by the visa requirement. after the accession of 10 new countries, the european commission relaxed the rules of the regulation on 7 july last year, effectively eliminating the reciprocity mechanism in its draft. this has led to an absurd situation where 9 out of 10 new member states would have to accept third country nationals, such as the united states, without a visa, while our own citizens need a visa to travel to these countries. the report by mr lax, which i generally regard very highly, introduces some additional procedures and deadlines which can be applied by diplomatic means, but it does not impose on the council and the commission an obligation to apply more stringent sanctions. the fact that the european commission has the choice between imposing a visa requirement on third country nationals or introducing other measures which are much less effective is, in my view, too weak and does not sufficiently protect the citizens of the new countries. this approach clearly means that, when new countries join, it is difficult to speak of mutual solidarity between the countries of the union vis-à-vis third countries, and that, when new countries join, there is a double standard - a different mechanism for the union of fifteen, a different, less solidary one for the union of 25. this also exacerbates the differences in status between citizens of the new and the old union, with citizens of the new union subject to additional restrictions on travel outside the union. how can we talk about a new concept of european citizenship in this context if one part of the union's citizens enjoys completely different duties and rights than the other, inferior part? from the perspective of the new member states, the balance of costs and benefits of enlargement appears to be strongly skewed. on the obligations side, we have undertaken a costly operation to align with the union's visa policy, introducing visas for our eastern neighbours. on the positive side, we have little, we cannot yet issue schengen visas, we cannot count on the union's help in the matter of visa reciprocity. in addition, the member states of the union which require us to implement a common visa policy are themselves having problems with its implementation, as is evident in the case of germany. commissioner frattini, if the amended mechanism comes into force, i would like to state that we will enforce the commission's obligations. i also want to know specifically whether the commission can be expected to present an action plan with clearly defined deadlines for achieving the objectives of visa abolition for the usa and using the readiness of new countries to join the schengen area as a benchmark. this is in the vital interest of all citizens of the new member states.
commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr lax for the work he has done, which has enabled us to discuss and decide on the visa reciprocity mechanism. i would just like to draw attention, as did mrs kudrycka, to one point which mr lax has just mentioned - the risk of unequal treatment between member states and their citizens. this is particularly the case for the granting of visas to enter the united states. in principle, the commission and council's powers in this area are a very good proposal, but i think that a little more power should also be given to member states which consider themselves to be affected. i would like to emphasize that in this case, as in others, but perhaps above all in this case, and as other colleagues have also mentioned, we should invoke one of the fundamental principles of the european union - the principle of solidarity and equal treatment of the member states and their citizens, who are after all equal citizens of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the idea of reciprocity goes back to a very long history of international relations, to a tradition of mutual respect and equal treatment of citizens of different countries. for the countries of the so-called old european union, this was an obvious and non-discussed principle until 1 may 2004. however, the atmosphere around this principle began to change rapidly with the accession of 10 new members to the union. the realpolitik emerged, whose fundamental characteristic is not so much to try to make reality fit the rules, but on the contrary to blur the rules so that they can fit the reality. and that, in my view, is the nature of the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the reciprocity mechanism. the polish citizens cannot accept this change; firstly because they have always considered the lack of visa reciprocity in relations, especially with the united states, to be harmful; secondly, because they had the right to expect that when they become part of the european union - the commonwealth of nations, it is this community in the name of broadly understood subsidiarity, will take over in part the duty of representing polish interests. but once again, this is not the case, the beautiful, well-known call of the musketeers, "one for all, all for one", has become a literary fiction. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report, even though, and perhaps precisely because, i am not only a polish but also an american citizen, and quite apart from this, i cannot help but question the integrity of the european union's international policy. what is the strength, mr commissioner, mr president, of the international european community, when even in a matter that would seem simple, we are making far-reaching concessions? (applause) (laughter)
the problem of groundwater pollution due to human and industrial demand is a very important factor in the existence of any agglomeration and all countries. as regards the draft directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution, it appears that further work is still needed, in particular to identify pollutants that are major sources of environmental hazards, together with the need to establish a limit value for naturally occurring substances that have been reported as active ingredients in biocidal products and for which the natural background level is higher than the proposed standard. it should also be noted that these are substances that affect the physiological activity of living organisms. therefore, monitoring and studies are needed to determine their exact effects on the human body. i also think that it should be made clear that, in order to protect groundwater, prevention is needed, as well as education, which would consist in informing the public about the state of water pollution, informing them about methods of protection and their implementation. also economic action to protect water through not only charges for use but also penalties for waste and pollution, and finally enforcement action through legal provisions, provisions that should be enforceable.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, groundwater is exposed to all kinds of pollution in ways that are unimaginable to citizens, and that is why education and prevention are of the utmost importance. it should be conducted in schools, but also among the main users who poison the environment as if they were immortal. it is very important that the cohesion fund, which is doing a great deal of work to protect the waters of the new countries in the european union, is maintained at the level originally planned by the european commission. you can't save on infrastructure, sewage and sewage treatment plants. it's the only way we can even out the huge differences between countries. the natural environment of central and eastern europe was exploited by heavy industry, subordinated to the arms industry. it is extremely important to meet the deadline for member states to report on groundwater status. only such a map of the waters will allow for a close and accurate monitoring of them later. the quantitative status of groundwater is an important issue raised by parliament. the draft directive is by definition only concerned with chemical status (article 17 of the water framework directive), so no new quantitative status solutions should be introduced at this stage. amendments 7 and 10 should therefore be rejected. the new solution is the proposal in amendment 54, which concerns the protection of health spaces and medicinal waters. in substance, it should be supported, since the existing community legislation does not take account of these special waters of very high quality. but this problem certainly needs to be developed, and i would like to draw the commissioner's and the european commission's attention to this.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission believes that, given the current lack of knowledge about the environmental quality of groundwater and the great variety of natural conditions in europe, it is not technically feasible, nor even desirable, to establish new standards for an extended list of substances on this basis at european union level. this is why the commission has proposed a small number of quality standards at european union level and has allocated member states to establish their own threshold values for other dangerous substances which have been identified as posing a risk to groundwater. the term 'threshold prices' was used merely to distinguish these national standards from standards at european union level. we accept, however, that the introduction of the term 'threshold prices' may cause confusion. we are therefore prepared to accept the principle behind amendments nos 17 and 57 and the related amendments nos 30, 31, 34, 69, 70 and 71. the use of the term 'groundwater quality standard' throughout the text clarifies that for some substances these quality standards will be established at european union level and for others these standards will be established by the member states. the commission also welcomes amendment no 65, which calls for the adoption of a common methodology in the proposal so that groundwater quality standards are established using common criteria. as regards the compliance regime, the commission is able to agree with the authority behind amendments nos 28, 29 and 58, in order to give some flexibility in the determination of good groundwater chemical status. however, greater flexibility cannot mean compromises on environmental objectives, and the text must be as clear as possible on this point. amendments nos 1 and 2 propose that the scope be clarified to include the non-degradation of the chemical status of groundwater, a proposal which we can support. however, references to parameters relating to drinking water, as set out in amendments 3 and 4, seem to be out of place, since the proposal focuses on environmental objectives relating to groundwater, while drinking water measures are adequately covered by article 7 of the water framework directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the proposed changes may lead to confusion and weaken the existing rules in the water framework directive. i am also unable to accept amendments which touch on matters already covered by the water framework directive. this includes amendments nos 7, 10 and 15, which deal with quantitative aspects of groundwater management, amendment no 16, which concerns the classification of groundwater, and amendment no 52, which refers to the 'polluter pays' principle. amendments nos 21 and 22, which concern the new definitions of degradation and background levels, can be accepted by the commission. however, the acceptance of amendments nos 23 and 49, which propose a new definition and a separate regime for very old contaminated sites, cannot be supported, since the management of these sites does not fall within the scope of this proposal. the commission agrees with amendments nos 14, 41 and 43 on monitoring, which stress the need to strengthen the requirements in relation to the provisions of the water framework directive on the harmonisation of measurement methods and the compatibility and representativeness of the data involved. as regards the prevention and reduction of discharges of pollutants into groundwater, the commission is able to accept in principle the majority of the clarifications proposed in amendments nos 19, 20, 43 and 48. as regards the identification and reversal of trends in groundwater quality, the commission agrees with amendment no 37 on the attention to be paid to increases in concentrations resulting from anthropogenic activities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial' and to extend the scope of the term 'commercial'. finally, amendments nos 74, 75 and 79, which concern technical specifications, can be accepted by the commission, while others such as amendments nos 76 to 78 and 83 to 85 are accepted in principle, but require further clarification. amendments nos 108 and 109 on the possible revision and repeal of the nitric acid directive cannot be accepted by the commission. the nitrates directive has helped to reduce pollution from agriculture and will continue to do so in the future. the water framework directive, the nitrates directive and this proposal for a groundwater directive are complementary and mutually reinforcing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nitrates directive is applied in all member states, and that the nitrates directive is applied in all member states. amendments nos 111 and 112 are not acceptable to the commission because they introduce standards at european level for various pollutants which the commission believes should currently be left to the member states. in conclusion, i would like to stress that many of the amendments provide useful clarification of the proposal and improve its relationship with the water framework directive and the previous groundwater directive. i am pleased to say that the commission is able to accept 31 amendments in full and another 44 amendments in principle or in part. however, 48 amendments cannot be accepted by the commission. i am submitting to the secretariat of parliament a full list of the commission's positions on the amendments (commission's position on parliament's amendments: see annex). the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the quality of my report by providing valuable feedback. your involvement, which has been expressed in proposing amendments and in initiating numerous discussions and contacts, has been a testimony to me that the subject of my report is important to many of you. it's worth mentioning that this report is not just a collection of facts and statistical analysis, but also a use of my experience. for the last 15 years, i have run medium-sized businesses and learned firsthand what the conditions are for their continued growth and development. the internal market must become a single economic body, the driving force of the economy, and this will only happen when all member states correctly implement the directives relating to the internal market and all the others which are designed to improve it. it cannot be that some countries transpose and implement the directive and others do so laxly. the success of the internal market is closely linked to cooperation between countries and only joint efforts can bring about the results we all want. the european council, aware of this, set a deficit limit for all eu member states for the transposition of directives at 1.5%. the report examines the extent to which national transpositions of directives, and in particular of newly adopted ones, have performed surprisingly well. the lowest deficit at the beginning of november 2004 in transposing directives was 2.1%, compared with an eu-wide average of 5%. analysis of the same data, but one month later, at the end of november 2004, shows that the level of non-compliance in the new member states has fallen to 1.8% and the union average to 3.6%. the data provided clearly show how the transposition situation is improving. it took a month, a month of effort and commitment. and only then, when all countries transpose and implement the directives, can the remaining barriers to the movement of goods, people, services and capital be quickly removed, making the internal market a reality. i therefore propose, firstly, that the special infringement procedure introduced by the commission against new member states which have not transposed community legislation should become a universal norm and apply to all member states; secondly, that the 'scoreboard' of internal market performance be made an official document of the european council and be recognised as the main reference point for the state of transposition and that up-to-date data on the state of transposition of directives be made available to all member states on a regular basis; thirdly, that all member states which are lagging behind in transposition be marked by the 'scoreboard'; and fourthly, that an appropriate financial instrument be provided to support the out-of-hours resolution of solvit disputes, as this form of resolution has already proved to be a success. in addition to the transposition and implementation of directives, it is worth noting the additional conditions that contribute to the development of the internal market and thus to the growth of the european economy. the key element is that new countries increase their investment in research and development, which is currently below the european average. they should also create better conditions for contacts between research institutions and businesses. as a citizen and former entrepreneur from the new member state, i also see the need for a more effective education and training system and for more information on the legislation and functioning of the union in the new member states. this was confirmed by surveys among businessmen. in many of the new member states too, education systems are outdated, teaching students subjects and professions that are nowadays not adapted to the needs of the market. and let's remember that a better educated and informed society means a better quality of work. the existing union legislation should also be simplified, which will help to develop businesses, trade, services and the growth of the european economy. another element essential for the proper functioning of the internal market is the services directive. for new and old economies alike, the services directive is an opportunity to reduce unemployment, reduce regional disparities, create new jobs, increase competitiveness, improve the quality of services and increase consumer choice. it is therefore worth abandoning the emotions and fears that have accompanied this directive from the beginning and instead working together constructively to ensure that it comes into force in the form and at the time that is best for all of us. finally, i would like to thank mrs kallenbach for her commitment and for the amendment she tabled. however, given that the services directive is currently being discussed and we do not know what the final form of the directive will be, i propose that this amendment be rejected. i hope that my solutions and suggestions will be accepted by you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs handzlik for her interesting report on the situation of the internal market in the new member states. i would like to make two comments on the report. first, the social assessment of the internal market by poorer societies is perceived primarily through changes in the prices of goods and services after accession to the union. the prices of many basic goods and services have risen significantly without economic justification. there was no competition mechanism or consumer protection system in place. in the days of socialism, people used to say, "the price of bread has risen, but the locomotives have sunk". what are we supposed to say in this situation? the second problem is the problem of market monopolization. many factories double their profits through price policy, not through productivity growth. there are many examples, such as fuel. it seems that this problem requires a quick solution. we are a large and attractive market as a union. we should use these values to regulate... (speech is suspended)
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking and congratulating my clubmate and fellow countrywoman, mrs. małgorzata handzlik, for producing such an interesting and important report. it is important for us not only because it was the first to be prepared by a polish member of parliament, but also because it deals with a very important issue, one which is crucial for the economic development of the european union, namely the functioning of a genuinely common, free market in services in the european union. if we realise that services account for 70% of the eu's gdp, we realise how important this is and how important it is to develop the services market in the eu. at this point, in the various debates on the constitutional treaty in different countries, the question of services, the question of the services directive, the question of a truly free, open, competitive market for services in europe is one of the key arguments in the discussion. there are many fears and concerns about the real opening of the european market for cooperation services, and the possibility of companies and service providers from the new member states operating on it. we have heard the statements of mrs kallenbach here - amongst others echoes of those discussions. i just want to refer to one important piece of information that we had the opportunity to hear from president chirac, who is taking part in an important discussion that is taking place in france. president chirac said that thanks to enlargement, french exports to the eastern countries that joined europe had quadrupled. this means almost 10 billion euros and 130,000 new jobs in france. this is the consequence of the functioning of a truly wide and free european market, and we should not fear enlargement and genuine competition on this market.
mr president, a few years ago most of the countries that joined the european union a year ago were in a different political camp. we had almost everything to separate us and very little to unite us. the common denominator was living in europe. but that wasn't always a positive response, either. today we're discussing the details of living together, removing barriers, overcoming difficulties. the excellent report by mrs małgorzata handzlik identifies the problems facing all member states and the ways in which they can be solved. i would like to thank the honourable member for her contribution and the work she has put into this report. it is to be hoped that all 24 points will be fulfilled as soon as possible. we have achieved a lot of successes, but the bitter words that have been spoken in various debates, for example in the debate on discrimination in the internal market or in the debate on the reciprocity method, indicate that there is still a lot to be done, but nothing is perfect, improvement is a continuous process. but remember that the best rules will not solve problems if member states do not make the right efforts to implement them. this is very different. every day we are confronted with attempts to circumvent directives or to burden the european union with decisions that are unfavourable to citizens. sometimes we act as if we've forgotten where we're going and what the constitutional treaty says.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr simon coveney on the annual report on human rights in the world for 2004 and the european union's policy on the matter because, despite the opposition of a large number of members from the left and the liberals, the report included demands for the extension of so-called reproductive rights (according to the world health organisation, this term also includes abortion) as a means of preventing aids and a direct demand for rapid access to abortion for victims of rape. i consider abortion to be a morally unacceptable and cruel practice. given the fact that opinion on abortion is divided in europe, i believe that we should not introduce such controversial demands into any european parliament documents. even with the divided opinion on the matter, i do not think that anyone can rationally assume that abortion is certainly not an attack on human life. that is why i could not support a report which contained such a record.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr simon coveney on the annual report on human rights in the world for 2004 and the european union's policy on the matter because, despite the opposition of a large number of members from the left and the liberals, the report included demands for the extension of so-called reproductive rights (according to the world health organisation, this term also includes abortion) as a means of preventing aids and a direct demand for rapid access to abortion for victims of rape. i consider abortion to be a morally unacceptable and cruel practice. given the fact that opinion on abortion is divided in europe, i believe that we should not introduce such controversial demands into any european parliament documents. even with the divided opinion on the matter, i do not think that anyone can rationally assume that abortion is certainly not an attack on human life. that is why i could not support a report which contained such a record.
as we mark the 60th anniversary of the surrender of the third reich and the end of world war ii in europe, it is worth remembering that not only was hitler's national socialist germany responsible for this world conflict that claimed tens of millions of lives, but so was joseph stalin's internationalist soviet union. the agreement between the two nations in august 1939 - called the molotov-ribbentrop pact - called for a joint armed attack by the two socialist dictatorships on the other democratic nations of europe. the soviet union joined the allies in 1941, when it was attacked by its ally. unlike the allied armies in the west, the red army, in driving the germans out of central and eastern europe, introduced a system of communist enslavement, a de facto new, sometimes even worse than german, occupation. political approval for this was given by stalin to the representatives of the western countries, including the united states, at the conferences in tehran, yalta and potsdam. this is an unfortunate but real historical truth which must not be forgotten in the process of creating a political vision for the unification of europe.
mr president, i have repeatedly drawn the european commission's attention, both orally and in writing, to the problem of soft fruit in the countries of the european union, and in particular in poland. i asked the european commission on 28 october 2004 and, on 13 december, i asked you, mr president, directly to intervene and to take protective measures. i thank you for your intervention and would like to inform you that i was pleased to receive the information from the representative of the european commission, who was attending the meeting of the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament on 19 april 2005, that a delegation would be going to poland to examine the problem on the spot, and that delegation did go. given that there is little time left before the first harvest of soft fruit, i would ask the president to intervene so that the delegation in question can submit proposals for solutions before the harvest begins. otherwise, intervention on the soft fruit market will not be possible until a year later, and polish producers will have to make further starts. i would like to point out that poland produces 50% of the total soft fruit production of the european union. i beg you, mr president, to intervene again.
i wanted to draw attention to the irregularities in the pension benefits. in some countries, there are trends towards raising the retirement age, reducing or even not paying benefits, which is explained by economic considerations and the ageing of the population, which in turn is the basis of a long-standing anti-family policy. the insured person should be sure, when starting the period of earning, that he will receive benefits after meeting certain conditions and after a certain time, and the state should take such measures to ensure the financial means necessary for the implementation of constitutional rights. on the other hand, changing the rules in the meantime, not paying benefits, limiting their amount, is a violation of fundamental social rights that derive from the inherent dignity of the human person. social rights, especially in the countries of the union, where respect for them is emphasized, should not be violated also because of the principle of citizens' trust in the state.
today's moscow commemoration of the end of world war ii was supposed to be a symbol of world reconciliation and unity. however, it is impossible not to get the impression that the kremlin is trying, on these occasions, to manipulate history, questioning the crimes in katyn - where thousands of polish officers were murdered, the genocide in the camps, or the illegal annexation of the baltic states. that's why the leaders of lithuania, estonia, and georgia boycotted the celebrations. so we must remember that world war ii began with the almost simultaneous attack of hitler's germany and the soviet union on poland, that the author of world war ii was not only adolf hitler and hitler's germany but that the soviet union had a supporting role in it. we must not forget, finally, that the end of the fascist occupation in eastern europe was the beginning of soviet enslavement. otherwise, today's russian celebration of victory over fascism may turn into a celebration of soviet imperialism.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the 17 previously agreed positions of directors general, deputy directors general, directors, chief advisors and head of cabinets, have not yet been filled by poles. it was supposed to be seventeen, it's zero. no positions are also taken by lithuania, with four agreed, and cyprus, with two agreed. in addition to these three countries, three others - estonia, latvia and slovakia - still do not have a director-general or deputy director-general. this situation is disturbing public opinion in the new member states. i'm asking the president to intervene personally in this astonishing case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are receiving some very bad news from france, where, in the run-up to the constitutional referendum, there were violent protests by journalists from the public media, particularly television, who accused the authorities and the media's management of presenting facts relating to the european constitution in a very biased manner. this is a blatant case of bias. i think that the european parliament, mr president, should rise to the challenge, because if not us, who should take care of the truth in the message before such an important political decision is taken by the french people? i think you should intervene or we should send a delegation of observers to investigate on the spot what undemocratic rules are being followed there.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. i would like to tell you about the catastrophic situation of polish fisheries caused by the european union's welfare measures. this activity is likely to lead to the elimination of baltic fisheries in poland. it is already a fact that after poland's accession to the european union, unemployment in coastal towns has increased significantly due to these facts. we have been forced - the poles have been forced - to fish with irrational limits, limits that have nothing to do with the conservation of resources, limits that have no biological or economic justification, and i am convinced that there were certainly political considerations involved. the european commission is not proposing any solutions today to enable polish fishermen to catch up with their colleagues in western countries. the main problem is that there is no way to modernise the fishing fleet with eu funds.
the agenda includes oral questions to the council on the financing of the transeuropean transport networks on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (b6-0238/2005) and oral questions to the commission on the financing of the transeuropean transport networks on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (b6-0239/2005).
mr president, commissioner, let me first thank mr cramer for his beautiful vote of solidarity. it is said that the creation of a european transport network requires three things - firstly, money, secondly, money and thirdly, money, but i think there is more to it than that. mr. president, there was a time when all roads led to rome, because that's how the romans built them, to the center of the civilized world. and where do the paths of today's increasingly united europe lead? but behind this question, which i do not intend to answer at this stage, there is another question: does the transport system of the present and future even more enlarged europe really constitute a system, or is it a certain whole? i do not think that the european network is that. the 14 priority projects that existed until recently have been joined by 16 new projects taking into account the accession of new members of the community. and we will probably continue to do so, i.e. during the next accessions - we will add piece by piece, a bit like the construction or creation of this american patchwork. and now my question to the european commission: is it not time to look at europe from a bird's eye view? is it not worthwhile to start developing a comprehensive, holistic study of the european transport network? and in this study, we have to include not only the balkan countries, but also moldova, and ukraine, and belarus, and georgia, and probably russia. i think it's high time for this kind of holistic, systematic work - to look at europe from a bird's-eye view, to join.
due to the limited financial resources allocated to transport policy, it was necessary to establish a list of projects to be prioritised under the trans-european transport network. however, it is clear that the list is still too long in relation to the union's financial capacity. therefore, in view of the recent enlargement and the huge delays in infrastructure development in the new member states, i believe that special attention should be paid to projects to unify the transport network in europe. when assessing the level of funding proposed by the european commission for the 2007-2013 financial perspective, it should be noted that the increase in expenditure for this purpose was entirely misjustified by the enlargement of the european union, as only 10 out of 30 accepted projects and only 10% of the budget concern the new member states. the attractiveness of this budgetary proposal for the new ten countries is also diminished by the fact that european co-financing is extremely low. despite these shortcomings, i believe that everything must be done to defend the level of spending on the trans-european transport network as proposed by the european commission.
president of the council. mr president, i should first like to thank all those who have spoken and have shown that the implementation and realisation of the transeuropean networks projects is a high priority for your parliament. perhaps i should correct a little the pessimism or the negative analysis expressed by some, since while it is true that progress in implementing these projects has been insufficient since the maastricht treaty, a number of them have nevertheless been implemented or are in the process of being implemented since the european council in essen in 1994, if my memory serves me right. so a first step in the realization has been taken or is being taken. the council no doubt shares the concern of your parliament when you say that the transeuropean networks are an essential element from an economic point of view, or from the point of view of territorial cohesion as the speakers have said, as the vice-president of the commission has pointed out. of course, as someone once said, the lifeblood of war is money. so we must ensure that our political priorities are also translated into budgetary priorities. the financial perspective is a crucial meeting point in this respect. as the president-in-office, i can only say that the luxembourg presidency, until june, attaches paramount importance to this part of the financial perspective and would not want it to be reduced, because the political priority itself would be reduced or even delayed. but that is a commitment the presidency cannot make. it is up to the member states and your parliament to decide on this first, since the financial perspective is not decided by the council alone. the financial perspective is decided jointly by the council and your parliament. i think that if you attach a high political priority to transeuropean networks, you should let it be known. you have done it today, the lesson has been learned, the message will be conveyed in the coming weeks, as discussions on the financial perspective will certainly intensify.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the members and speakers who have shown their great interest in this subject by their presence. i would also like to point out that we have a practically complete scheme for 27 member states, both present and future, and that the cofinancing rates will be the same for all member states. we will fund studies at roughly 50% of what we do today. as far as projects are concerned, we will go from a rate of 10% for, say, normal projects to possibly 30% if they are priority projects. for crossborder projects, which up to now have been eligible for a rate of up to 20%, they will eventually be eligible for a rate of 50%, since we will indeed give them a high priority with you. i would also like to return to the question of the neighbourhood and the links you want with the whole of the european continent. you know that i asked loyola de palacio to give a thought to the extension of the transeuropean network to the neighbouring countries: the balkans, the caucasus, russia, ukraine, moldova, the eastern and southern mediterranean. i expect a lot from this work, which will enable us to think about the future of connections across the european continent and will also contribute to our reflection on neighbourhood policy. i would also like to say that we will have to be very careful, because we will still have to ensure that the nation states and the member states can commit themselves deliberately to the projects. overall, we contribute one seventh of the effort, a contribution which has a fundamental leverage effect. i shall not go into all the speeches that have been made, particularly by the members of the committee on transport. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. that is why, mr president - and i would like to emphasize this point this morning - i decided to propose to the council and parliament the appointment of coordinators who will be responsible, precisely, for ensuring that, along the entire length of the corridor - which is essentially a railway corridor or even a river corridor - every effort is made to ensure the coherence of the corridor within the time limits. i think, mr president, that parliament should give its opinion on the proposals quickly. can the commissioner take this opportunity to reiterate that he is looking forward to this opinion from parliament? i can then pass on to the council this proposal on the strategy of the coordinators, which the council has also informed the minister of its agreement to. i should then be able to present to the commission, with the support of parliament and the council, the appointment of these coordinators, from whom i really expect a great deal. they will have both the technical expertise and, i believe, the political and moral authority to really get everyone moving and, if necessary, to ensure that two neighbouring states can, through bilateral links, engage in the implementation of the extension. i thank parliament once again, i thank the presidency for pointing out that, of course, all this was suspended in the financial negotiations. that said, i believe that it is also up to the members of parliament to remind their leaders, the leaders of their member states, that they too must, if we want europe to be fully competitive, to achieve its territorial cohesion, accept to play the full game of these major projects which may prove to be a real chance for the europe of tomorrow. i also thank mr costa, who, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, took the initiative of this debate, which has been very useful to me as well.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report by mrs jeanine hennis-plasschaert on improving port security (com (2004) 0393 - c6-0072/2004 - 2004/0031 (cod)).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is not a party to the treaty of rome. i am personally against bureaucracy, as are all of us, and the surplus of documents on port security can lead to an increase in bureaucratic structures, and the regulation of this issue by the european union will lead to the existence of two overlapping acts and legal systems. one of the community's principles is the principle of subsidiarity. it is not possible to take away the member states' powers and suggest that the directive should also apply to areas outside the port. it is not possible to restrict the judicial system of the member states and to indicate what constitutes a crime and what constitutes an offence. i am in favour of strengthening port security, but in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the choice of how to achieve this objective should be left to the member states and the ports themselves to the greatest extent possible. the ports cannot be subject to continuous control by multiple authorities. as i said at the beginning, we cannot go too far in bureaucratising the regulations, directives and laws that apply to us here.
i think it's a good thing that we're talking about this, because it shows that we're trying to be smart about the potential harm. secondly, we are treating ports as real multimodal nodes in transport chains. it'll finally build the trust of the customers. what is the advantage of the proposed directive? it's that we have clear goals and flexibility in pursuing and achieving those goals. issues such as the funding of institutional competences and inspections and their impact on whether or not ports are disrupted have been controversial in my club. we found a compromise, we found a good compromise that we should support. finally, i would also like to say that i consulted the port authorities in my constituency, szczecin and świnoujście, on these projects. the reviews are overwhelmingly positive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the proposal to the council. the issue of working time is a very sensitive one, given the scourge of unemployment and the economic difficulties faced by employers, especially in the new member states. i was surprised a few days ago when in poland on may 1st - labor day, and on sunday, people could shop at ikea until 8pm. supermarkets are open on weekdays often until 22.00 or all day. in the face of job losses, in the face of weak economies, it's not clear whether to support the position of a group of employers or workers, which are inherently contradictory. i therefore consider mr cercas' report and the amendments of the committee on employment and social affairs to be a sensible compromise for the general good of man. on-call time at the workplace should be considered as working time and time spent away from the workplace should be paid for on a flat-rate basis. we need some common rules in the union, for example on working time.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0119/2005) by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the recognition of professional qualifications (c6-0008/2005 - 2002/0061 (cod)) (rapporteur: stefano zappala).
on behalf of the uen group. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the common market. unfortunately, this principle is not always respected, as evidenced by the huge number of complaints addressed both to the european parliament's committee on petitions and to solvit. in many european countries, there are various restrictions and deliberate obstacles which inhibit competition, hinder the development of the common market, limit the fall in prices and reduce the quality of work. i am in favour of the simplest and fastest possible way of recognising professional qualifications in order to ensure the greatest possible mobility of the citizens of our countries. the compromise reached between the council and parliament will probably lead to the adoption of this directive. it is a pity, however, that once again parliament seems to be the brake on the necessary and courageous reforms proposed by the european commission. i am thinking here, among other things, of parliament's proposals for five levels of qualification and the division into different types of occupation, which were put forward in the course of the commission's work. where there are differences in the period of qualification between the country of origin and the country of employment, a system should be established to allow the verification of the qualifications of the person concerned or to supplement the missing qualifications. i would like to stress that the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is in line with the draft directive on services. i believe that it is in the best interests of the european community as a whole that these directives should be adopted as soon as possible. i regret that the commission's initial proposal to allow professionals to provide services temporarily without the unnecessary formalities of the country of origin principle was not accepted. i hope that the report adopted by parliament tomorrow will be another step in facilitating the provision of work and services between member states and in facilitating the movement from one country to another. i believe that the directive adopted, together with the services directive, while respecting the country of origin rule, will be the next step towards completing the work of creating a common market and bringing about economic growth and new jobs throughout europe.
ladies and gentlemen, we must ask ourselves today, and we must ask ourselves continuously, whether the european union is a union of institutions, a union of states, governments, parliaments, or a union of citizens, a union of people, a union of europeans, because behind every such problem of non-recognition of qualifications is someone's individual problem, someone's individual injury. it is not just our common fault that we are undermining the competitiveness of the eu institutions by extending a protectorate over the selfish interests of corporations, guilds, unions and institutions. no, it's the people who are being hurt whose qualifications are not being recognized, who are being prevented from working at the level of their qualifications. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i know how many cases of this kind are taking place in europe, although this is only the tip of the iceberg, but the tip of the iceberg is huge. the people who are being harmed, the doctors, the vets, the nurses, even the lawyers and the butchers. they protect the interests of their corporations, which the european commission directive - and i congratulate commissioner mccreevy on that - was intended to correct and has largely corrected. unfortunately, the european parliament has ruined this directive, and although we will support it because it is better than none, we do not think it is good. i must also say that the speech by the socialist representative, who said that these are not european standards for the recognition of qualifications of countries of origin, is unacceptable. it is completely incomprehensible to me why such a criterion of europeanness. ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of europe - in order for europe to become truly competitive with the united states, with the far east - we must allow people and institutions to be competitive. this directive is needed, unfortunately in this broken form. thank you, commissioner mccreevy, for what you did.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the honourable members for their contributions. this debate has shown that it is possible to find a broad consensus on an issue that provoked a good deal of controversy at first reading. this makes me optimistic for other initiatives before this parliament. some members raised the question of the craftsmen or meister. let me clarify that. the new directive in no way affects the national regulations on qualifications in the craft sector, nor does it entail any levelling down of national quality standards. two existing regimes for the recognition of professional qualifications in this sector are maintained: fully qualified craftsmen can apply either for recognition of their professional experience or for recognition of their formal qualifications, where appropriate, subject to an aptitude test or a supervised traineeship. moreover, the special structure of certain courses, amongst them the german meister qualification, is fully acknowledged. i confirm that this special status can be extended to further courses through the adoption of implementing measures within the framework of the committee set up by this directive. i wish to underline again that the valuable efforts made by the european parliament and in particular by the rapporteur, mr zappalà, and the shadow rapporteurs have been essential for the successful outcome of this negotiation and the final adoption of this important proposal. the commission will hand over a detailed overview of the amendments that the commission can accept for inclusion in the record of this part-session see annex. this overview confirms that the commission fully endorses the agreement reached by the co-legislators.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. 34 amendments can be accepted in their entirety. these are amendments 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54 and 55. 21 amendments must be rejected. these are amendments 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30 and 32.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs maria esther herranz garcia (a6-0121/2005) on simplifying the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (ini 2004/2193).
i would like to express my deep concern about the possible importation of red fruit from asia in 2005. there are 450 000 farms producing red fruit in poland. last year, the import of red fruit from asia led to a disaster. prices dropped so much that the fruit was not even picked. another year like this and 200,000 farms will be liquidated. five people per family will mean a million people without income this autumn: an unjustifiable social catastrophe! a farmer who loses his land, and therefore his job, also loses his home because he sells the land on which his house is built. he also loses his roots because he has to move far away to the city to find work. but in poland, there are no jobs to be found in the city. officially, 20% of the population is unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of farming. the other consequence was a massive emigration to the west and a realization of the colossal lie that the european union was based on the principle of community preference. if you want the poles to reject the european constitution, continue to import red fruit from asia, but be honest and tell the polish farmers that no one cares about their fate. that will at least have the merit of clarity.
mr president, madam rapporteur, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome this draft resolution and thank you for taking account of the situation in the new member states. farmers in poland complain of production restrictions and difficulty in selling their products. i have a short time to make one small but important point: fruit and vegetables are too expensive in the union, especially unfresh and unflavoured fruit. let us improve the quality of our products and preserve the richness of varieties, especially seasonal fruit. there are still some very tasty varieties of apples in poland that i've never seen in brussels, and probably never will again. i only eat tomatoes and cucumbers in poland, because the ones in the old union are tasteless. let us offer our citizens cheaper, fresher fruits and vegetables, while ensuring that producers are paid fairly, without losing the richness of local varieties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the great enlargement of the european union in 2004 has brought new challenges and new problems. although a year of joint experience has passed, we have unfortunately not been able to eliminate the mistakes made during the negotiation of the conditions of accession of the new member states. we all understand that time and consideration are needed in making decisions, but we also know that there are many urgent matters that need to be dealt with. one is the need to regulate the fruit and vegetable market. it is important for the new member states to have the soft fruit and apple markets covered by the safeguard procedure. the influx of soft fruit, including strawberries, raspberries, raspberries and cherries from china, morocco and serbia, has caused enormous difficulties and drama for european producers. polish producers and processors were particularly affected. poland accounts for around 50% of the european union's total production of soft fruit and is a major producer of apples. i am pleased that, after several interventions by myself and other members, this problem has been brought to the attention of the president of the european parliament and the parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, which has professionally dealt with this problem. as a result, the european commission also took the matter seriously and sent a commission to poland to investigate the matter on the spot. i hope the committee will complete its work before the takeover begins and we can get the necessary help and intervention in time. ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs maría esther herranz garcía, member of the european parliament, which has been tabled for debate in this house, deserves special attention. the european commission should therefore draw the appropriate conclusions from this report and act swiftly. postponing the problem means avoiding the necessary solutions, complicating the situation for many european farmers and producers and contributing to misunderstandings and social unrest.
ladies and gentlemen! the recent enlargement of the european union has created a new situation on the fruit and vegetable market. the union seemed fully prepared for this change, as the candidates were thoroughly 'scanned' in the annual reports. the european commission's analysis found that the new members will bring in as many as 19 fruit and vegetable species, which will increase the union's food self-sufficiency and consumer satisfaction. this knowledge, however, has not led to any change in the organization of the market, but we are faced with a curious situation: there is a special support mechanism for one variety of plums, and there is no such support for apples, the number one fruit, which accounts for 32% of the total fruit harvest. there is a support mechanism for nuts and bananas, but not for the whole range of soft fruit, which is inherently very fragile and therefore subject to price fluctuations. commissioner, the next season is running out and there are no responsible solutions. two policies are still in place: better for the old fifteen and worse for the new ten. instead of concrete solutions, the european commission seems to be acting in a false light. a special inspection was sent to poland. playing dead. this is a very dangerous game for the stability of the fruit and vegetable market, for the livelihoods of thousands of producers and their families, especially in the new member states, and finally for consumers exposed to price fluctuations and the need to import from third countries fruit of poor quality and posing a health risk. the point is simple: if the new member states guarantee the supply of soft fruit and high-quality apples, they must be supported as a matter of urgency, including by restricting imports, unless someone sees european solidarity differently and wants the common agricultural policy to cover other continents as well.
the enlargement of the european union to include ten new member states has made it necessary to modify the instruments of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables in order to speed up the process of setting up producer groups and organisations and their effective functioning in order to prevent a disaster on this market. the degree of organisation of producers in the new countries is very low. in poland, it currently represents around 1,5% of the market. the new member states should receive increased aid for the maintenance and administration of the provisionally recognised producer groups. concrete financial support instruments are needed. the establishment of producer organisations should also be allowed for categories such as fruit for processing and vegetables for processing. it should also be noted that the market for soft fruit is characterised by a high price sensitivity due to the volatile level of their production and the increasing imports from third countries outside the union. as a result of uncontrolled imports, european farmers, including polish soft fruit producers, are now in a disastrous situation. action is needed to stabilise this market in the long term, including through the introduction of greater import controls to also prevent the influx of low-quality products. this check should be accompanied by the mandatory issue of a certificate of origin. the european commission should consider introducing import quotas for these sensitive products. what does the european commission propose? analysis and more specifically, indefinite actions, which means waiting and doing nothing.
the debate on simplifying the fruit and vegetable market today is giving rise to a more general reflection on the direction of changes in the common agricultural policy. as a member from the new member state, poland, i am surprised, as are many of my colleagues, that the philosophy of the eu approach to the economy, and agriculture in particular, is changing rapidly. when we were outside the union, we remember the union as a closed structure, as a closed market, which was very difficult for us to enter. and now that we are in the union, we hear the word liberalisation all the time. we're going to liberalize, open up our markets for fruit and vegetables, sugar, milk and everything else. we entered another union, and we are in another. as meps from poland, a country which produces half of the eu's soft fruit production, such as cherries, apricots and raspberries, we have asked the european commission several times in various forms to apply safeguard clauses to the soft fruit market and each time we have heard 'we, because liberalisation'. we must open our market to show solidarity with poor countries that want to export to our market. solidarity is a beautiful word, we value it especially in poland, but solidarity cannot be about transferring someone else's poverty to us. it cannot be that our farmers go bankrupt, that they themselves become poor, so that someone else in the union can sell their products instead. this cannot be the case, especially since there are serious concerns that liberalization will benefit speculators more than farmers in poor countries. i support the view that it is appropriate to apply safeguard clauses and restrict the import of fruit into the union market. i support mrs herranz's report in its entirety and appreciate the work she has done.
member of the commission. once again i should like to thank the committee for its own-initiative report on the simplification of the common market organisation for fruit and vegetables. i have listened carefully and i can assure you that the commission will analyse this final report very closely before presenting proposals for the fruit and vegetable sector. the presidency’s conclusions of november 2004 recognised that the path undertaken with the 1996 reform should be continued in the fresh fruit sector also. however, the commission was also asked to carry out an impact analysis on all aspects of processed fruit and citrus. that analysis will be available at the beginning of 2006. for the sake of coherence, the commission decided to present a global proposal covering both fresh and processed fruits. on crisis management, in the framework of the communication on risk and crisis management in agriculture, as well as the horizontal options identified in this context, the commission considers that specific needs should be looked at on a case-by-case basis in the context of the cmo reviews, even for the fruit and vegetable sector. accordingly, the commission will consider carefully the creation of a mutual stabilisation fund based on public and private co-financing. with regard to soft fruit, the council has also requested that the commission carry out the appropriate analysis of the new situation in the european market resulting from enlargement and, if necessary, bring forward proposals specifically to address these issues. the commission has already started the analysis of the soft fruit sector in the new member states. officials from the agriculture and trade directorates have just come back from a visit to poland. when this study is finished, we will analyse the results and, if necessary, appropriate measures will be taken in due course. as a member of the wto, we cannot adopt protectionist measures considered obstacles to imports. the most effective and efficient way to respond to market signals is to focus on the quality of our products and improve the competitiveness of our sector. we could do that using two different tools. as i have already said, one involves strengthening producers’ organisations, so that we prevent producers from competing against one another; and the second, the possibility of strengthening our promotional initiatives, which could be helpful. some of you raised the issue of the import of fruit and vegetables from third countries, in particular red fruits. third country imports have to meet the standards that we apply in the community. member states must check products entering into the community and should notify the interception of non-compliant products to the commission through our rapid alert system. based on the information that we have, provided by that system, only three interceptions of fresh and frozen fruit, which did not meet our standards, took place in the period from january 2002 to april 2005. given the large quantity that is imported, it is my opinion that this is a very small amount. as regards the introduction of special labelling of origin, i can assure you that i will be positive in my approach to that. i can only stress the great importance of this specific sector to the member states, both from an economic and a job-creation point of view.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr janusz wojciechowski (a6-0096-2005) on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1868/94 establishing a quota system for the production of potato starch (com (2004) 772 - c6-0014/2005 - 2004/0269 (cns)).
member of the commission. mr president, i shall start by thanking mr wojciechowski and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all the work they have carried out on this report. i would like to place this proposal in its context. on 26 june 2003, the council adopted a fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy which significantly changes the way that the european union supports the agricultural sector. as far as potato starch is concerned, 40% of the aid paid to the producer has been decoupled and included in the single farm payment scheme. after enlargement, six of the ten new member states have been involved in the potato starch quota system for the first time in 2004-2005 marketing year. since the potato starch production quotas were introduced in 1995, we have been trying to define a strategy to secure, enhance and promote the development of this very important sector. i return to the proposal discussed today. it is of vital importance to preserve the stability of this fragile sector, while at the same time taking into account the fundamental changes due to the reform of the cap and enlargement. firstly, to roll over the quotas for two years instead of the three years foreseen in regulation (ec) no 1868/94. this time-frame should allow us to analyse the initial effects of the cap reform and enlargement on the potato starch sector and enable us to act quickly should the need arise. secondly, to roll over the existing quotas which have provided a stable market in the eight old member states taking part in this regime. i am well aware of the fears in certain new member states that their quotas negotiated in their accession treaties and based on a historical reference period might be too small. as usual, the development of the potato starch sector in all member states will be closely monitored in the years to come. the commission appreciates the contribution of the agriculture committee to the development of this area. several of the proposed amendments, however, go beyond the scope of the commission’s proposal, especially as far as the time-frame for the proposal is concerned. because a prolongation of four years would not allow us to react quickly to possible imbalances in the european starch market, the commission cannot accept this amendment in the context of the proposal at hand. the amendment concerning the transfer of quotas to new member states certainly raises issues of great importance to the countries concerned. however, experience has shown that the starch potato yield fluctuates a lot, depending on climatic conditions. allowing for the possibility of transnational balancing-out, with priority given to the new member states, might incite starch producers in these member states to increase the areas under contract, hoping for a transfer of unused quotas from other member states, which could lead to a significant overshoot of their quotas in years when the climatic conditions in the european union are favourable for potato growing, thus aggravating their situation. in conclusion, the commission cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report.
the house of lords! the committee on agriculture has had a problem with this report - firstly, how long and secondly, how much? how long is the current quota system to be extended for, and secondly, whether to make adjustments in the amounts? on the first point, the committee on agriculture considered that the wine quota system should be extended not for two years, as proposed by the commission, but for four successive marketing years. the argument prevailed that this period should be sufficiently long to allow potato and starch producers to establish their production plans in a timely manner. the two-year period proposed in the draft is insufficient for this and therefore the committee on agriculture has adopted an amendment and proposed a longer period of four years. the second issue, whether to adjust the amounts, was an emotional one. much of the discussion focused on the unfair treatment of the new member states, which were allocated amounts inadequate to their production potential in the accession negotiations. of the total quota of 1 947 000 tonnes allocated to the 25 countries of the union, 89% is allocated to the 15 countries and only 11% to the 10 countries. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to see from the statistics that back in 1999 the ten had more potatoes than the fifteen, 1 600 000 hectares, whereas the fifteen had about 1 400 000 hectares. in the following years, this has changed somewhat, as potato production in the g10 countries has declined sharply, but it is still very high. the example of poland, which is the largest potato producer in the european union and, despite the closure of a large part of the plantations, is still the largest potato producer, with production quantities several times lower than those of germany, the netherlands or france, was given in the discussion. as a result of the undercutting, poland, the potato powerhouse, produces less starch than it needs to meet its domestic demand and has to import significant amounts of starch. other new countries have similar problems, most notably lithuania. on the other hand, it was pointed out that the countries of the 15 with high production quotas of starch have not used up their quotas in full for years, e.g. in the last 6 years only in one year 2001 we had 100% utilization of quotas, and in the other years the non-use was between 3% and 17%. it was pointed out that it was unfair that some countries were not using the quotas while others were suffocating because they were not getting enough. however, the committee on agriculture considered that there could be no question of increasing the global quota or of changing the quota allocated to individual countries, mainly because of the fear of a market collapse in the event of higher production. the committee on agriculture, on the other hand, has come up with a different idea, the result of a broad compromise, to propose what is known as balancing - the possibility of carrying over amounts when they are not fully used. in view of the difficult situation of the new member states, the committee on agriculture proposed that if the allocated amounts were not used - as has often happened recently - the unused part should be transferred to the new member states in the first instance. that is, madam president, a very good solution - we are not increasing the overall production quota, we are not endangering the market, we are not undermining the delicate structure of the system, but we are creating the possibility of equalising the unfair distribution of quotas, at least when some countries do not use their quotas. i would like to thank very warmly the members of the committee on agriculture from all the political groups for having accepted this compromise proposal without a single vote of opposition and i recommend this compromise to the house and to the commission, commissioner, with the deep conviction that the balancing proposal should be included in the new draft regulation. i would like to stress once again that this is a very wise and necessary compromise, which is an expression of the solidarity of the old and new member states, a solidarity which we so badly need.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, one of the small parts of the reform of the common agricultural policy is the reform of the starch market. the report and the explanatory statement, although it concerns a very narrow section of the common agricultural policy, is the best example of the differences and irregularities between the individual countries, which the candidates unfortunately agreed to in their accession treaties. poland has been europe's leading potato producer for years, second only to germany and france. this is due both to generations of farming tradition and consumer habits and to the structure of poor, sandy soils, where farmers can only grow wheat and potatoes. however, the production of starch in poland, which is estimated at 144 000 tonnes, does not correspond to the production potential of the 13 potato plants, which is currently estimated at 220 000 tonnes, nor to the size of the crops, since poland has the largest potato area in europe, nor to the proportion of the population living or working in agriculture. the limits thus set have resulted in poland, the third largest potato producer, becoming a starch importer. it therefore seemed natural for the polish government to submit reasoned requests for an increase in the amounts in relation to those previously wrongly estimated and agreed. i think it's not shame to admit a mistake, it's shame to be stuck in it. the proposed amendment only concerned an increase of 40 000 tonnes, for lithuania and poland combined, with 20% of the quota, i.e. almost 200 000 tonnes, originally notified by the rapporteur member of the committee on agriculture not used by the union in recent years. the amendments proposed were precisely those amendments, previously proposed by the two governments of lithuania and poland. it was like putting a stick in an anthill. this caused a storm and a protest by the commission, but also a long and sharp discussion in the committee on agriculture. at one point, i felt as if i were in a match between poland, lithuania - the applicant - and the new member states and the rest of europe. today we are debating the final form of a new report that is the result of a wise compromise. in talking to you today about the history of this report, i want to draw your attention to a dormant problem that has exploded and exposed the inequalities between individual countries within the common agricultural policy, resulting from the mistakes of the treaty negotiators, but also the changing image of european agriculture and the countryside after accession and reform. i also mention this because i want to emphasize the prudence and compromise of the report by mr wojciechowski, which reconciles all the parties to an unnecessary conflict. the club of the party of european socialists, which i represent, also agreed to a compromise concerning the carry-over of the amounts for two more years, i.e. until 2009, and the distribution of the four-year amounts by the member states on the basis of the 2004-05 amounts. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, which i have just read, and i would like to thank him for the excellent work he has done.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. poland has been a starch powerhouse for years alongside countries such as germany, the netherlands, france and denmark. considering that in poland starch plants are only using about 60% of their production capacity due to a limited starch quota of 145 000 tonnes. we are now in a situation where we have to import this product because we are not producing enough of it and we have the raw materials and processing capacity to do so. for poland, the desired production of starch is a minimum of 180 000 tonnes, and this is the amount proposed by the polish side in the negotiations. in western europe, strong producer organisations have been in place for over 30 years, while in poland starch plants have adapted well, but are only just emerging. in addition, the fact that in 2003 producers made a number of costly investments to meet eu standards while respecting environmental requirements is a reason for the increase in quotas for poland. it should be added that these enterprises employ several thousand people and are mainly located in those regions of the country which are affected by high structural unemployment. i do not think that the proposed amendments solve the problems, but they are moving in the right direction. poland, which grows 50% of europe's potatoes, will continue to import starch. how do we explain this to potato growers, processors and consumers?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is not a party to the treaty of rome. in speaking about the quota system for potato starch production, i would like to draw attention to three points which i consider important. firstly, it is very common in agricultural debates to get the impression that the commission representatives do not have, or do not want to have, full knowledge of the productive potential of the new countries. in the case under discussion, namely potato starch production, the production potential of the new member states amounts to 30% of the production of the whole union, whereas the production quotas for starch represent only about 10% of the production quotas of the whole european union. there is therefore no doubt that the distribution of these amounts between the old and the new member states is grossly unfair. secondly, it is very common in discussions to hear that everything that has been achieved in the accession negotiations cannot be changed, because any change that is beneficial for one country would trigger the desire of the other countries to improve their situation - an approach that cannot be accepted. thirdly, the commission's reaction to the speeches and motions of the members of parliament is extremely slow and often takes weeks, and months, to act in practice. this is also unacceptable. i hope, therefore, that despite these reservations, at least on the production quotas for starch the commission, the council and parliament will be able to reach a compromise. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. this solution does not guarantee the new member states certainty about increasing their starch production quotas, but it does at least provide an opportunity to do so, especially since the amount of starch produced in the european union has been on average 7% below the current production limits per year for the last six years. so it is likely that the future will be similar. under the new regulation, unused amounts will be able to be transferred to the new member states. this will create an opportunity for farmers growing starch potatoes in these countries, in particular in poland, to improve the income situation of their holdings and allow the starch industry to make better use of production capacity.
member of the commission. thank you for your contributions to this important debate. one of the points raised by several members concerned the question as to why the new member states did not get a higher quota from the very beginning. the potato starch quotas for the new member states were negotiated in copenhagen in 2002 and agreed by the candidate countries and the eu-25. they were calculated in exactly the same way as quotas for other member states, taking an average of the production during a three-year reference period. as regards the example of poland that was mentioned, let me offer a few figures. average production in poland from 1999 until 2001 was 107 317 tonnes; nevertheless, a quota of 144 985 tonnes was granted to poland. therefore, to talk of unjust quota does not seem entirely justified. i fully recognise the importance of poland as a producer of potatoes, but let me remind you that starch quotas are based on historical production and not on the potential of the different member states. the other issues concern the extension of the time frame to four years and the possibility of quota transfer to the new member states. in my opening statement i made it clear that i cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the oral questions to the european commission by lapo pistelli (o-0045/2005 - b6-0231/2005) on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe on the situation in sudan.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the european union is not only a major donor to the sudanese people, but also a major contributor to the development of the country. the union cannot give money indiscriminately without asking the charter to meet basic standards. meanwhile, there is still no clear answer to the question of respecting the rights of religious minorities in this country. it is about persecuting christians, as has happened before in some other african countries. the european union, africa, the caribbean, the pacific are asking this question in the parliamentary assembly. sudan has been silent in response, africa has been silent, but i would not like the eu to be silent on this issue either. giving money without verifying the human rights, including the rights of religious minorities, is a mistake. this case should and must be connected. compliance with standards in this area must be the foundation on which to develop the current and future relations between the european union and the african union. i think that's the main takeaway from this debate. i share the reservations that were raised earlier here by mrs kinnock.
member of the commission. mr president, on the specific question of darfur, the commission has repeatedly called on the two warring parties to put an immediate end to the violence and the suffering inflicted on the civil population and to the inexcusable acts committed in clear breach of international law and conventions. we believe, however, that even if desirable in absolute terms, peace in darfur alone would not be sustainable and that it should be part and parcel of a political solution for the entire country. it should be stressed that nothing short of full compliance with the ceasefire agreement by all the warring parties will facilitate resumption of the political dialogue between the sudanese government and the rebels in abuja. it is important that these negotiations resume as soon as possible and that all the parties stop insisting on unrealistic preconditions that block the whole process. the commission also considers that the post-naivasha political agenda is the right framework for reaching a lasting political solution for the whole region. the commission favours a balanced approach towards the sudanese government and the main political actors in sudan. this balanced approach consists of positive and negative measures, depending on the course of action taken by the government and the other main political actors. following the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement, the commission has decided gradually to resume its development cooperation with a contribution of eur 400 million. the commission is also ready to support the parties seeking a peaceful solution for darfur and other regions of sudan through the political framework of the naivasha process. however, as the commission stated at the recent oslo donors’ conference on sudan, the speed at which it resumes its cooperation will depend largely on the degree of progress in effective cpa implementation and a real improvement in the situation in darfur. at the same time, the commission supports the recent un resolutions, including the threat of sanctions and the referral of cases of perpetrators of crimes against humanity to the international criminal court as a necessary means of putting an end to impunity and to violence in darfur. an au evaluation mission carried out from 10 to 22 march, with the participation of the united nations and the european union, assessed the need for enhancing peace-support efforts in darfur, including exploring ways of strengthening amis 2. the mission’s findings acknowledged the positive role of amis in the areas where it has been deployed. however, as i mentioned previously, it estimates that amis is currently operating at only about 50% of its operational capacity. it is important to bring amis up to full operational capacity before deciding on its reinforcement. the commission is ready to contribute to meeting the challenges in darfur, together with the au and its partners. the sustainable reinforcement of african capabilities could be fast-tracked if the lessons learned from this operation were applied to the security sector as well.
the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday.
on behalf of the uen group. i would like to begin by congratulating the presidency on its excellent, in-depth analysis of the situation in central asia, particularly in kyrgyzstan. i would like to make a few additional comments on the situation in this country. more than a month and a half after the coup in kyrgyzstan, the situation is far from stabilized, and it is causing significant concern among kyrgyzstan's neighbors. we could see positive signs of normalisation and i would include the avoidance of dual power at both the level of parliament and the heads of state. i refer here primarily to the resignation of president akayev in april. there have also been events that could cause great concern, and these include, first and foremost, a number of incidents, including a mysterious death with a political background. these events have led to a rise in voices about the credibility of the changes being made. i think the crucial test of the credibility of this change will be the way the upcoming presidential election is conducted. i would like to emphasize the very positive role that the osce has played, is playing and will probably continue to play in the kyrgyzstan plan. particular attention should be paid to those elements of the electoral process that were the direct cause of the protests in kyrgyzstan, which led to the overthrow and elimination of candidates, as well as vote buying, in the monitoring of the pre-election situation and during the elections themselves. the will of the authorities in kyrgyzstan to hold early parliamentary elections will also be a key test. i would like to make one more comment, and it comes from my personal experience of polish public life. if society starts to fight for its own identity, however long that fight may last, it is an irreversible and inevitable process, and this should be the direction of the european union's support for change - above all, support for civil society. i am in favour of the european union's financial commitment, but it should be conditional on the fulfilment of human rights and the rule of law criteria.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. i remember my visit to kyrgyzstan a few years ago - a country of natural beauty and great natural wealth, such as water in this region of the world. recently, kyrgyzstan has been in the news again for the overthrow of long-time president akayev. some people, including some in this room, have interpreted this quite naively as an event similar to what happened earlier in georgia and ukraine. this is not the case, because in those countries the new authorities are doing a lot to ensure that their countries pursue a policy of independence from moscow. meanwhile, in kyrgyzstan, the new political system is just as pro-russian, if not more so, than the previous team. the situation in the country is still unstable, as evidenced by the recent assassination attempt on presidential candidate erkinbayev. certainly, the film about modern kyrgyzstan that we are watching now is not a black and white film, although some western observers would like to see it that way. it is important that the union should be more active in this region of the world, without leaving its peoples at the mercy of the russians and the americans, although we should cooperate with both of them in this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the european parliament is keen to cooperate with kyrgyzstan, as it is with other central asian countries. this interest is confirmed by the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded in 1995. particular attention should be paid to those areas of concern which concern human rights and the democratisation of life, environmental protection and energy. the constitution of kyrgyzstan was adopted in 1993 with great hope and despite having been amended four times since then, it seems that this document can still provide a good basis for further changes to democratize life in the country, but according to the constitution, the judicial system, which is responsible for respecting human rights, although formally independent, observers stress that it is not reformed enough and there is too much corruption, and the judges are paid too little. they point out that it is not in line with the principles of democracy for the president to appoint members of the constitutional court, to appoint judges of the supreme court, or to appoint arbitrators to the arbitration court. they warn that the slogan of fighting terrorism should not be used to curtail human rights. the european union can and should help to eliminate these negative phenomena, as it always does, financially and morally, by being present where it is needed, to support democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. my position is that the regulation of such an important aspect of the socioeconomic system of european countries as the weekly working time should not be regulated at european level. working time is a matter of labour law, which in every democratic country is decided by a parliament representing all the parties involved in the labour process. this is a sufficient guarantee for respecting the rights of workers and employers. today's vote is a dark day for european business and prosperity. the left-wing and liberal parliaments voted to tighten the working time directive, which will now be one of the most damaging pieces of european law. it was decided to transfer the bad experience of the french and german economies to all countries, even those that, like poland, the united kingdom or ireland, do not want to do so. the restrictions on weekly working hours and the inclusion of shifts in working hours will hit doctors, nurses and some journalists the hardest. they will then be reflected in a further decline in the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. the european parliament's reference to the lisbon strategy is the height of hypocrisy.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr. speaker, your honor, world war ii began in september of 1939 with the invasion and occupation of my country, poland, by germany and the soviet union. this partition of poland was the result of the molotov-ribbentrop pact, signed a week earlier in moscow. poland was enslaved not by nazi or communist party militias, but by the regular armed forces of neighboring countries, by the german wehrmacht, luftwaffe and kriegsmarine and by the red army. let us add that at that time in germany the national socialist party and chancellor hitler were in power, having come to power as a result of the democratic decisions of the german electorate, and in russia stalin and the communist party were elevated by revolution. the german surrender on may 8, 1945, the 60th anniversary of which we are celebrating, has become the symbolic date for the end of the lawlessness committed by nazi germany in the conquered territories. but this did not end the lawlessness that had begun with the soviet union's invasion of poland in 1939. we won the war with germany, but we lost the war with russia. this defeat meant that we were forced to accept a foreign power, a foreign economic system and a foreign ideology. we were on all the fronts of world war ii, from the first shot to the last. we had allies in the war with germany, and since 1941 also in the form of the soviet union. we appreciate russia's participation in the defeat of nazi germany and the enormous russian sacrifices that resulted, but that does not change the fact that russia treated us as a conquered country, not to mention that our western allies in the fight against germany were also allies of the soviet union and agreed at yalta to be enslaved by it. we had to get out ourselves, one step at a time. first by removing the collectivization of agriculture, then by liberating the church, then by gaining tolerance for small, private enterprise, and finally by gaining freedom of association, freedom of speech and politics. the only external help in all this was the gradual us-led arms race and especially the success of the regan star wars, which weakened the soviet union. the presence of american troops in europe and the existence of nato have ensured peace in western europe for 60 years. today, the countries of eastern and central europe - whether in nato or the partnership for peace - also enjoy these benefits. the desire for peace and freedom, to shape the future as we see fit, is common to all of us. soon my generation will be gone, remembering world war ii with personal experience. we must ensure that she is remembered for generations to come as she was. how painful for us poles is the fact that in so many western media there is a constantly appearing harmful wording: polish concentration camps, or even, as the british guardian has allowed itself, polish gas chambers and crematoria. yes, there were also these death factories on polish soil, but they were not polish, but german. we appreciate that the german people have cut themselves off from the vile legacy of the nazi era, but we want to ensure that in the minds of future generations, nazi crimes are not associated with poland, because poland is not responsible for them. it is not the russian people who are responsible for the crimes of stalinism, the deportations, the gulags, the katyn genocide and the subjugation of central and eastern europe, but the communist leaders of the soviet state. this enslavement has also affected the russians themselves. we want to be reconciled with the russian people and the russian state. we expect it to be a clear break from the legacy of the communist era. meanwhile, the leaders of germany and russia, the countries that started world war ii, in a joint interview with the bild newspaper, are trying to focus the memory of that war only on the relationship between them and their own victims. today we would like to build good neighbourly relations with both germany and russia. as early as 1961, polish bishops addressed the german bishops with a famous message that included the words: we forgive and we ask forgiveness. and that's the same attitude we have today towards russia. but forgiveness and reconciliation do not mean that we can forget, so we cry out: no more genocide, no more subjugation of one nation by another, no more aggression, no more war!
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the experiences of the nations in world war ii were extremely varied, and that is why the debate we are having is perhaps the most important debate on european identity in years. if we really want to be part of a european spiritual community, then we must all try to understand the full historical experience of the peoples of europe, and therefore we must speak openly about certain things. the resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the war is the result of a difficult compromise, and it contains many phrases that reflect well the effects of the war. however, it lacks reflection on the relationship between the beginning of the war and its end, as well as reflection on the present assessments of the war in russia. munich and the breakup of czechoslovakia were hitler's first impulse to aggression, but there's no denying that the real invitation to war was the ribbentrop-molotov pact. poland fell victim to the collaboration between the third reich and the soviet union in september 1939. then came the german invasions of norway, denmark, belgium, the netherlands, luxembourg, france, yugoslavia, and greece, as well as the soviet invasions of finland, lithuania, latvia, and estonia. stalin did not go to war against germany of his own free will, on the contrary, he refused to cooperate with france, with great britain. it was only after the nazi aggression of june 1941 that he received british and american help, joining a new coalition that eventually defeated the third reich. although the red army bore the brunt of the war, the soviet system did not change, the gulag archipelago continued to expand, and its casualties are comparable to the soviet union's war losses. that's why the big three's cooperation was based on the illusion of shared values, and that's why that cooperation proved impossible after the war ended. shortly before his death, roosevelt himself admitted that stalin was no businessman, that he was breaking all the agreements he had made. but it was too late. europe was divided and the eastern part of europe was pushed into the arms of stalinist totalitarianism, including poland, which was the first to resist hitler when he was stalin's ally, poland, whose armed forces were the fourth largest allied power, and poland, which suffered the largest relative population losses in that war. unfortunately, russia today does not want to acknowledge the ambiguous role of the ussr in the war. president putin has returned to the stalinist interpretation of world war ii and its aftermath. he called the molotov-ribbentrop pact an ordinary international treaty. official russia denies that stalin made aggression against poland in 1939, denies that katyn genocide was committed, that the ussr occupied the baltic states, and claims that yalta brought the poles democracy. the famous russian writer viktor yerofeyev recently wrote that enlightened russia is equating stalin's totalitarianism with hitler's regime. enlightened russia would give hope for reconciliation with europe, while stalin's rehabilitation should be a warning to all. why is this important today? president putin has announced that the russian-german reconciliation can be an example for europe. unfortunately, reconciliation on the basis of stalin's interpretation of history is a poor idea, and in warsaw, vilnius, riga or tallinn it sounds particularly false. we poles and the other nations of central europe believe that there will be no peace and reconciliation in europe, from which the nations between germany and russia will thus be excluded. you must understand that when the western european powers and russia are pressing on our heads, we in poland and central europe are feeling suffocated.
your honour, today in the european parliament we commemorate the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war, the most terrible war in history, which brought the death of millions of people, the extermination of the jews, which plunged europe into the abyss of barbarism, economic ruin and moral decay. we bow to that time and honor the memory of the victims of that war. your honour, there are moments in the memory of societies that are special, really important, that allow us to be together in the work of building a political community. the european nations have their own memories of the 20th century. this is the result of the historical experience of the various political events in our countries and our societies. but there is a memory that unites us, the memory of the victims of war, the memory of the struggle for freedom and democracy, the memory that forms our common european identity. today we remember the victims of nazi terror in the countries occupied by the third reich. we commemorate the victims of the shoah, the genocide of the european jews during the second world war, a crime of a unique character in the history of all mankind. we celebrate the victory of the allied powers over the third reich, and especially the role played by the united states of america in the liberation of europe. we remember all the soldiers who died to free the world from nazism, the 14 million soldiers of the red army. we honour the memory of the victims of all sides in the second world war, we commemorate the wartime victims of stalin, whose symbol was the massacre of some 22 000 polish citizens and prisoners of war in katyn and other camps and prisons in the soviet union in the spring of 1940. we pay tribute to the fighters for freedom, democracy and human rights, and we remember in particular the heroic resistance movement fighting in individual countries against fascism and occupation. a resistance movement whose ideals and sacrifice in an unequal struggle are today our true heritage, a cause of common pride and an example for the younger generations of europeans. today i would like to commemorate the resistance movement in the warsaw ghetto, the insurgents of the jewish combat organization, who took up the fight on april 19, 1943, on the territory of the ghetto for the jewish population created in warsaw by the occupying authorities. a fight which, in the midst of war, in the midst of nazi-ruled europe, had no chance militarily, a fight which, however, had a deeper meaning, whose heroism is for us today the highest testimony of the human spirit and one of the moral foundations of the europe we are building. as the jewish fighting organization put it, "the fight is for your freedom and ours, for your and our human, social, national honor and dignity". your honour, we remember that not all european nations saw the end of the war as a true liberation, independence and democracy. for central and eastern europe and the baltic states, the end of the war meant new forms of oppression, the loss of sovereignty and democracy, the violation of basic human rights under the totalitarian status quo imposed on that part of europe by the soviet union. for estonia, latvia and lithuania, also the loss of independence and incorporation into the soviet union. socialists, social democrats, the democratic left, in the 20th century, were against all forms of dictatorship, against all non-democratic regimes. we are a political movement that has always stood for democracy and human rights. in the baltic states, in central and eastern europe, and in those countries of southern europe which were ruled by dictatorships after world war ii: portugal, spain and greece. your honour, i say this in the european parliament, in strasbourg, in a territory marked by war and the collapse of europe. our ancestors met on this land, facing each other as soldiers. we are here today as citizens, as members of parliament representing a united europe. the answer to the wars since the 1950s has been european integration, the creation of the european community. the creation of the european institutions has been and is the process of overcoming the conflicts between the peoples of europe. the european union today is the product of three great democratic processes: the defeat of fascism in war, the fall of dictatorships in southern europe in the second half of the 1970s and the triumph of democracy in central and eastern europe and the baltic states. our continent is building an international order based on peace and cooperation. a community is being established based on the principles of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the european union, a union of 25 countries, today embraces a society with a diverse history. the ratification of the constitution for europe will mean the creation of a united europe, committed to peace, justice and solidarity in the world, a europe which can become, as the preamble to the constitutional treaty states, a privileged area of human hope. together we have walked this path from a europe oppressed by war and totalitarianism, human misery, to a democratic europe, where free peoples together in the union create the european future.
mr. speaker, the house! the future of europe sixty years after the end of the second world war depends to a large extent on the fulfilment of two basic conditions: first, the recognition by all of the historical memory of the events of the second world war, and second, on the basis of this memory, the construction of a common vision of european integration. historical memory can differ depending on whether the end of the war was or was not a true liberation. from my country's perspective, it's a reminder of a few key dates that sealed the tragic history of world war ii. september 1, 1939 - hitler's invasion of poland and the beginning of a nightmarish period of occupation, repression, camps, occupation activities leading to the destruction of the nation and society, but also a period of heroic acts of the state and underground society. september 17, 1939, a date unfortunately less known in western europe, but painful and significant for us - the soviet invasion of poland under the pact ribbentrop-molotov, which means: hitler-stalin and the further dismemberment of poland. 1943 - the disclosure of the katyn crime committed in 1940 on stalin's orders by murdering several thousand polish officers and officials, only because they were in the service of the polish state. 1943 and 1944 - two more heroic uprisings: the uprising in the warsaw ghetto ended with its bloody stream, or rather extermination, and the warsaw uprising, whose stream was passively watched from the right bank of the vistula by soviet troops. 1945 - yalta conference, which for 44 years lowered the iron curtain dividing europe and cutting my country, poland, off from democracy and the process of european integration. so much for historical memory. i would like to make a fundamental statement on the question of a common vision of european integration: this memory is the memory of the crimes of the systems and their victims, but it should not and cannot in any case divide peoples and societies. it is a message that refers to the solidarity of the polish social movement, which started the process of liberation of this part of europe, and whose 25th anniversary we are also celebrating this year. this movement is at the root of the reconnection of the two parts of europe that were divided by the yalta decision. i would like to refer to this movement and say with all my strength that solidarity must be the keyword of our common future. in conclusion, i call for the adoption of a resolution.
president of the council. like the commission and parliament, the council has stressed throughout the enlargement process the particular importance of the protection of minorities and equal opportunities in the political representation of these minorities. in particular, at the last meeting of the eu-romania association council, before the accession treaty was signed, the union noted that political pluralism was an essential principle of any democracy and that it was fundamentally linked to compliance with the copenhagen political criteria. it urged romania to amend all restrictive legislative provisions concerning political parties and the organisation of local elections which in the past prevented certain parties from taking part in the elections. the council is well aware of the problems encountered by some new political parties representing ethnic minorities in romania in registering for elections. the development of these issues will continue to be monitored in the light of the copenhagen political criteria in the enhanced monitoring exercise of romania's preparation for accession.
president of the council. the council would remind the honourable member that it considers that the convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, concluded at the hague on 19 october 1996, makes a valuable contribution to the protection of children at international level and that it is therefore desirable that these provisions be implemented as soon as possible. it is in this spirit that the council decided on 19 december 2002 to invite the member states to sign this convention in the interests of the community. as regards the ratification of this convention, the council would like to inform the honourable member that there is general agreement on the advisability of ratifying this convention and that one last problem remains, which concerns gibraltar. the council expects all efforts to be made by the two member states which are able to find a solution to this point, so that the convention can be ratified by the member states in the interest of the community, if possible before the end of 2005.
president of the council. in reply to this question and to the suggestions made, i can only repeat that the luxembourg presidency remains firmly committed to reaching a political agreement on the financial perspective in june 2005. the same applies to the vast majority of members of your parliament. no other scenario is therefore envisaged and the current presidency has no doubt that, whatever the outcome, future presidencies will take their responsibilities seriously.
mr president, i thank you for the determination that the council representative spoke of, and i am glad. i am pleased with the terms of the compromise we are hearing about, which is very unsatisfactory from the point of view of the new member states, poland, but perhaps especially the czech republic, hungary. i think it would be extremely important for this compromise to be implemented during the luxembourg presidency, in this six-month period, and i wish this to the presidency and to all of us, but i think it is important that this compromise is acceptable to public opinion in our countries.
president of the council. the luxembourg presidency is counting on the firm and resolute support of your parliament to reach an agreement. i hope that with the good will of all governments we can achieve this.
president of the council. the european crossborder cooperation grouping is the subject of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council submitted by the commission on 14 july 2004. this proposal for a regulation is currently being examined by one of the council working groups, which is concerned in particular with structural measures. following discussions within this group since last summer, the presidency presented a compromise text on 19 april, which is available to the public and serves as the basis for the work of the group responsible for structural action. it is therefore impossible at this stage to say what the council's position will be when this discussion is concluded. of course, as this is a regulation adopted under the codecision procedure, parliament is a party to the procedure.
thank you, mr. chairman, thank you, mr. minister. i have of course read the draft regulation, but there are a few points i would like to put to the council and to get its views. the third paragraph of article 159 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that, in order to achieve the objectives of economic and social cohesion laid down in the treaty, it is possible to take specific measures outside the funds, so i wanted to ask what measures are these, and outside what funds, and is there any provision for creating new funds for this purpose? in addition, the draft regulation refers, in particular in its preamble, to transnational, interregional and crossborder cooperation. the following articles, however, only focus on crossborder cooperation, so i would like to know whether this is a limitation of this cooperation or whether it will be possible to cooperate as it has been possible so far under the interreg iiia programme.
the commission budg. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today's presentation is probably routine for many absent members, but not for the commissioner, who can understand my polish, and not for me. what's so special about 2006? firstly, it is the last year of the current financial perspective. as such, it accumulates new, costly and unforeseen tasks which create tension, especially in chapter 3 and chapter 4 - which will probably require additional arrangements with the presidency, which will be british. secondly, it is a bridge to the new financial perspective and as such it poses a problem because the level of payments - almost 7 billion euros below the ceiling of the financial perspective in relation to national income - is lower than in 2005, when it was 1.03%. we should carefully analyse how much this corresponds to the real needs of 2006. in addition to the continuity elements, the 2006 budget has new emphases. it is an attempt to revive the lisbon strategy through a cash flow which, according to the commissioner, is increasing by 8%, which also means cutting other expenditure in chapter 3, and which cannot be a substitute for the real reforms which are at the heart of the lisbon strategy. some external challenges are also under new emphasis, notably the reconstruction of the devastated countries affected by the tsunami and the european union's support for this democratic, civil awakening that is taking place beyond the eastern border. it's probably going to require the use of an instrument of flexibility. our rapporteur adds a new priority - youth - and this will be the hallmark of parliament's budget strategy in 2006. i have noted the relationship between the annual budgetary agreements and the multiannual financial perspective. it is certainly true that if the luxembourg presidency succeeds in agreeing a multiannual perspective, it will be easier for us to agree the 2006 budget with the british presidency in a better climate. i don't know how realistic that is, but it should be our common wish.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i take the floor on the european parliament's preliminary draft budget for 2006 and mr dombrovskis' report on this subject, given that the draft general budget of the european union for 2006 was presented in this chamber a few minutes ago. so, to start, i have three comments on this project. first, the very low level of payments in this budget, which amounts to 1.02 of the european union's gross national income, is a cause for concern for the representative of the new member state, poland. it should be noted that the maximum payment ceiling for 2006 resulting from the current financial perspective is 1.08 of gross national income, and thus in absolute terms it is as much as eur 7 billion higher. secondly, this level of payments was proposed by the european commission, which only recently confirmed the average annual payments in the financial perspective for 2007-13 at 1.14 of gross national income. i think it will be difficult to explain to the citizens of the european union how it is possible to finance all the union's expenditure with 112 billion euros, and already in 2007 payments are to amount to almost 130 billion euros. thirdly, it is difficult to understand why in this budget we have such a marked increase in administrative expenditure - by 6.2% - when the appropriations for external action are down by 2% and for the pre-accession strategy by as much as 4% compared to 2005. this last statement leads us to consider the european parliament's budgetary expenditure in 2006 - it is to account for 20% of total administrative expenditure, corresponding to eur 1 342 000 000, an increase of 5.5% compared to 2005. it should be emphasised that these increased appropriations are primarily intended to ensure the completion of the financing of the enlargement of the european union by 10 new member states and to enable the preparation of the enlargement by bulgaria and romania from january 2007, for which the appropriate financial resources should be secured. it should be noted that only 78% of the enlargement posts created in the 2004 and 2005 budgets will be filled by the end of 2005, which is a very worrying situation. finally, i would like to congratulate mr dombrovskis on the preparation of a comprehensive report on parliament's expenditure for 2006, which takes into account not only enlargement issues but also issues relating to the quality and efficiency of parliament's work, including in particular the work of members on documents in their own language, and the issue of bringing parliament and the results of its work closer to the citizens.
chairman of the committee on budgets.– mr president, i am responding to mr martin’s reservations relating to the legal aspects, not to the substance. the set of oral amendments he mentioned was submitted the day before voting in the committee on budgets to its members and there were no reservations regarding these amendments. after voting for several of them, mr martin started to raise reservations, but without clarifying on which rules he was basing his reservations. therefore, i went ahead with the vote, having the unanimous support of the committee on budgets. that is my clarification. (applause)
the creation of the european external action service raises many doubts and reservations. i would like to highlight three of them, which i think are fundamental. the first concerns the empowerment of the european external action service in community legislation. although the relevant articles of the treaty on european union are cited, the main reference for the creation of this service remains the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe. in the light of this project, the establishment of the union diplomatic service is a direct consequence of the conduct of the so-called common foreign and security policy and the establishment of the union minister for foreign affairs, which was discussed here today. it should be noted that the draft constitutional treaty has not yet been adopted and there are serious indications that it will be rejected by the citizens of the member states. is it not therefore premature to talk about a european external action service today? and is this not an arrogant attitude towards the citizens of sovereign european countries? but if the institutions of the union are going to give themselves the right to foresee the future, i ask whether the commission has a plan b in mind if the draft constitutional treaty is rejected. the second question is the implications of the commitment made by the governments of the member states when they signed the draft constitutional treaty last november. namely, they have undertaken to refrain from, and i quote: ... from any action that could impede the entry into force of the constitution ... , end of quote. does this automatically mean that we are making uncritical propaganda for the adoption of this treaty, and is this contrary to fair and objective information about what constitutional provisions contain and what effects they may have on the lives of the peoples of europe? and thirdly, and lastly, the question of the structure of the european external action service. it may mean the creation of a new army of officials with unclear or partial competences. it is almost certain that, in a structure designed in this way, the same matter will be dealt with by the directorates-general, the external action service and other agencies of the commission. the result will be a reinforcement of the eu's bureaucratic machinery, which is already opaque and only places an undue burden on the taxpayers of the member states. what are the financial implications of the creation of the european external action service? how will they be spread out and who will feel them the most? i would also like to ask how many officials are currently working in the commission services responsible for the union's external policy? what is the expected number of external personnel in the future?
commissioner, i believe that the european commission must respond appropriately and swiftly to three issues. the situation on the textiles, clothing and footwear market is a clear example of market distortion by imports from china, which causes related problems in other areas as well. the first is that the commission is too slow and late to act, and its wrong decisions have a destructive effect and are unfortunately, in some cases, irreversible. the second issue is the liberalisation of the union market, which has led to a sharp increase in subsidised imports of subsidised coal, for example, which is linked to questionable price competition. this leads to a deterioration of the market for the trade in this raw material and further degradation of the extractive industry, which is after all working for the energy needs of the union. and finally, the third issue is trade agreements based on preferences that were concluded when the union was still made up of 15 countries. the customs arrangements and the quota preferences should now be revised for the whole of the enlarged union. the commission has also found that the us producers are not able to compete with the union producers in the union market.
member of the commission. mr president, this has been a very useful, rather balanced and proportionate debate, but i well understand the huge anxieties and sensitivities that are excited by this issue of textiles. let me say that, of all the contributions made since the opening remarks, if i had to identify one contribution with which i was most in sympathy and which most corresponded to my own views and approach, it would be that of mr calabuig rull, because stressing that we need to see china as an opportunity as well as a potential threat and that the containers that are heading towards europe with all these textiles and other goods and produce need then to be sent back to china filled with european goods and produce hits exactly the right note. when i talk about goods and produce i also mean a huge potential and expanding market for european services. i agree that we need to help the textiles industry in europe to restructure and adapt, and we are giving that assistance. i agree that, if china is to have its own growth accepted by the international economic community, then it needs to reciprocate by opening its own markets to others’ produce and to comply with international agreements. however, i also agree that, if, in the circumstances of this very sudden and very dramatic surge in chinese exports, we have to take action on our side in order to manage this transition and to smooth these changes, then that action is open to us to take. it may be limited in terms of its content and its duration. none of us should exaggerate – especially for those who are directly concerned with these changes – what is at our disposal to do in order to counter this. at the very least, we can limit the growth of chinese exports on a temporary basis. it is not open to us, under the wto rules, to do more than that. however, where the facts justify our doing that, i, certainly, and my colleagues in the commission will not shrink from doing so. it is easy in a debate like this to talk in generalisations. what we cannot do is act in generalisations. we have to act on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of the facts. why? because we must act in a way that is legally defensible. the worst course of action for us in the commission would be to act in a way that we could not subsequently defend, only to find ourselves challenged in the wto and forced to reverse the actions we have taken. that would be a tremendous disappointment and setback for those who are most directly affected, and we must be careful. therefore, we must enforce the rules, but we cannot invent the rules. that is what we must bear in mind throughout this. also, there is a mixed picture developing in terms both of the impact of import levels on particular commodities and categories of textiles and of the impact on production levels and employment within different parts of the european textiles industry. not just in the united states, but in some cases also in europe, import levels are falling. in other cases, chinese imports and their growth are displacing the imports from third countries. so it is a mixed picture. in terms of the impact of these trade flows on european production and employment, it is true that, in some cases, the impact appears to be dramatic, based on the facts that i was reviewing with my services only yesterday, facts, for example, from greece, portugal and italy. there are some very disturbing developments. i have to take note of those and i have to base my future actions on those facts. in the case of some of our other member states, i have yet to receive the relevant data and the relevant information. even certain member states at the forefront of the demands for me to adopt emergency and urgent procedure have not sent me the facts on which i could base such urgent action. however, i am sure it will be forthcoming. mr caspary, mrs mann and mr martinez raised interesting questions and ideas, and i will write to them in response in due course. finally, the statement made yesterday by the chinese premier wen jiabao, in which he seems to have decided to give instructions to relevant government departments in china to prepare effective action to curb chinese export growth, is welcome to me. we need, however, to look at the reality of these actions, when they are agreed, and consider the impact they will have. in the light of those, the commission will consider what future action it will take from here on.
i'm closing the debate. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mr luis francisco herrero-tejedor, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of the european union information and communication strategy (2004/2238 (ini)) (a6-0111/2005).
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. today's debate shows how much more needs to be done to ensure that citizens of the union and its institutions are properly informed and communicate with each other. the point is, it's reliable information. it's about our citizens being treated as unique, as individuals. the important thing is that the information reaches the people who need it or just want to know. access to information in all official languages is also a problem. i would add that the information must be provided in a transparent, non-bureaucratic way, which unfortunately does not happen very often. i would also like to refer to matters relating to the constitutional treaty. i believe that what is needed is good, objective information on this issue, not just any kind of propaganda, for or against. the treaty is very extensive and is the result of many compromises. our citizens should therefore be given reliable information on this subject, starting with good translations.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, it is definitely an extraordinary challenge to communicate in a european union of 20 official languages, with a very complex structure, which is an evolving project. it is also a political arena with all the different views reflected, as is demonstrated here all the time. in ending this debate, i would just like to repeat my thanks to you for your views. from much of what has been said, and some of the very good ideas we have heard, i can see there is convergence with what we are now preparing in the white paper. but i must just repeat that communication – and this is also addressed to mr portas, for example – is a two-way process. it has to be a dialogue; it has also to involve listening to citizens. that is my second point and i mentioned it in my introduction. one of the guiding principles has to be to listen better to citizens and their concerns, otherwise we will not succeed. i agree with those who have said that propaganda will not work. scaremongering will not work either, so i think we have to be very careful in designing our information activities. i underline what has been said by mr karas and others. this is something for all players. it has to be integrated at the very start of the process of preparing different proposals. we have also received some very good ideas including journalist awards. a number of things have been mentioned that we will follow up. when our white paper has been published, we will soon have a chance to come back with a number of these principles and very concrete proposals. thank you for the debate. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
chairman of the committee on budgets.– mr president, i wish to clarify the situation. the oral amendments contested by mr martin were submitted to the committee members one day before voting. we had voted on several of them, when mr martin started to raise reservations on two occasions, without giving a clear rule as a point of reference. therefore, i went ahead with the vote with the full support of my committee. (applause)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we're discussing another, shall we say, sensitive subject. we're discussing a subject that is imposed on us by life and imposed on us by the tragedy of a small nation, let's be honest - conquered by russia. russia has grown since the 16th century in a different way than the colonial states. colonial powers gained power in various territories around the world, but they generally did not think that these territories should be completely integrated with them and deprived of their cultural, national, linguistic identity. russia developed differently, russia decided to immediately russify any territory it conquered, to take away its identity, to take away these people's religion, to take away their language. the poles on the russian side experienced this in the 19th century in the most painful way. and it was usually done in a cruel way, because tens and hundreds of thousands of people were taken, sometimes they were forced to leave, but very often they were forced to leave in a brutal way, and the russians came to this place. these processes were radically intensified under communist rule after the so-called october revolution. and then russia decided to russify all these territories that were under its control. russia also victimized a small ugrofin nation, the one we are talking about today in the republic of mari el. the russians came and now the russians have completely taken over this small republic, and they have pushed the original inhabitants of the ugrofin people into a position of a persecuted minority. your honor, the same situation exists in the areas that have liberated themselves from russia, not to the extent that it is the russian majority, but there is a powerful minority that does not feel integrated with these countries, where the majority is still the indigenous population. this is the situation in lithuania, latvia, estonia, where the russian minority today wants to have influence and wants to have that influence against the interests of the countries in which they live, where you just have to open the newspapers in those countries to see that this russian population is opposed, is hostile to the countries in which they live. these people often demand rights that we would otherwise think they have, but they have them on one condition: that they show some loyalty to the country in which they live. in the republic of mari el, the situation is even more tragic, where russians are simply the majority today, and the indigenous population is a persecuted minority, murder of journalists, lack of schools, inability to educate, persecution of anyone who speaks on behalf of the ugrofin population. ladies and gentlemen, we must balance the rights of the original hosts and the rights of the democratic majority. it cannot be that the democratic majority - the de facto majority of the occupiers - tyrannises and persecutes the indigenous minority.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. the violations of human rights and democracy this time concern a small republic of the russian federation called mari el, which unfortunately means only by name the country of the marians. the republic of mari el is one of many countries and peoples that have been subjugated and annexed by russia, fighting for years to preserve their identity and independence, like the armenians, chechens and many others. despite the establishment of the mariana asrr declaration of sovereignty in 1990, the nation's situation is unfortunately deteriorating. the inhabitants known from russian and polish literature, such as the cheremesis, belonging to the ugrofin language group, were subjected to many repressions, especially during the stalinist period, when the komsomol brigades cut down their sacred groves and the marians were sent to siberia, which became the reason that today's republic is inhabited by only half of the mari nation, the rest is dispersed and subjected to russification. this republic is led by a controversially elected president who does not identify with the people. president markelow, born in moscow, who doesn't even know the language of the marians, systematically restricts the rights of this nation, especially the freedom of speech. the marians have problems accessing education in their own language, the marian schools are closed, they are missing, as are the universities. officials of maricadian origin are being fired, and opposition journalists are being persecuted, as well as independent, private media, which has led to the search for help not only from culturally close peoples of rural finland, estonia, but also from the european parliament. like other countries and peoples of the former soviet union seeking independence, as well as others fighting for independence, the marians have the right to sovereignty, independence, preservation of identity, therefore we do not agree with the persecution, attempts to corrupt, violation of human rights in this republic. while the history of occupied countries shows the spirit and strength of survival, often crowned by victory, they have been often paid for by suffering and loss of life. i would like to recall the words of the recently deceased holy father john paul ii: 'never can one nation develop at the expense of another, never at the cost of another, at the cost of its dependence, conquest, enslavement, exploitation and death. if different countries and peoples are forced to live together under one government, it will always, sooner or later, endanger peace, the struggle for independence and sovereignty, which should also serve as a warning to the emerging superpower of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european standards should be respected everywhere, throughout europe, including in russia. one of these standards is the right to use one's own language and to preserve one's cultural identity, to promote one's own culture, even if it is the language and culture of a very small nation. exactly four years and two days ago, russia signed the european charter for regional or minority languages, so it is no favor to demand that it be recognized as the official language of the republic of mari el - the mari language is respected especially in secondary and higher education. it's not like that. in this context, they are concerned about the repression of school principals and journalists who defended the sovereignty of this small nation. we do not want to lecture russia, we want to work closely with it, but we cannot be blind and deaf to human rights violations wherever they occur in europe. and we cannot sacrifice human rights, minority rights, on the altar of cooperation with moscow.
member of the commission. the commission is generally aware of the situation of the indigenous populations of finno-hungary, such as the mari. we are also aware of the problems raised by some members of the european parliament regarding the treatment of the mari - the same ones we heard today - and, in particular, regarding the mari language in schools, harassment in the media and the recent presidential elections in december 2004. the commission considers common values, including respect for human rights, to be the cornerstone of its relations with russia. at the eu-russia summit in the hague in november 2004, presidents putin and barroso agreed to hold regular eu-russia consultations on human rights and minority rights, as well as on fundamental freedoms. the commission aims to use these consultations to enhance an open and constructive dialogue with russia on all relevant issues. a first round of these consultations took place on 1 may 2005 in luxembourg. the meeting discussed a number of issues, including the situation of human rights, the rights of persons belonging to minorities and fundamental freedoms in the russian federation and the european union. we also engage in constructive exchanges of information on issues related to human rights cooperation in international fora, in particular the united nations commission on human rights, the council of europe and the osce. the commission considers that these consultations with russia provide the appropriate framework for more detailed discussions with the russian authorities on the situation in the mari. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to inform you that the next round of consultations with russia on human rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities, as well as on fundamental freedoms, will probably take place in the second half of 2005 under the uk presidency.
the author. the human rights situation in burma is unacceptable to the international community. during the 40 years of military rule and the implementation of the so-called burmese road to socialism, burma has fallen from being one of the richest, most educated countries in southeast asia to one of the poorest. the burmese generals, who have been at the head of one of the world's worst dictatorships, have resisted all pressure from the international community for the past ten years. in burma, the fight between burmese generals and the opposition, the use of chemical weapons by the burmese army, the complete lack of cooperation with international organisations, the persecution of ethnic minorities and political arrests are particularly to be condemned. as of december 2014, the number of political prisoners in the country was estimated at around 1,300, and the number of political prisoners in the country was estimated at around 1,100. forced labour is a daily reality, with 800,000 burmese victims every day. in addition, citizens' freedom of opinion, freedom of movement, information, assembly and political participation are restricted. burma's education system is in tatters. since 1988, universities have closed more often than they have reopened, for fear of student involvement in politics. half the state budget is allocated to the military and to maintaining an army of 400,000, even though the country is not at war. 77,000 children are forced into military service, often as young as 11. only a tiny fraction of the budget is spent on medical care, which is in a terrible state, lacking basic medical supplies and qualified personnel. sexual exploitation of young women, girls and children from ethnic minorities is also a serious problem. it seems that only strong economic sanctions - targeting strategic sectors such as oil, gas, forestry, mining and seafood - all of which are monopolized by the regime with the un's diplomatic initiative - are a chance for the regime to start evolving towards the necessary changes. the un and the european union have a moral obligation to intervene and interfere in the internal affairs of a state that so blatantly violates human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. there is no doubt that the new framework agreement between parliament and the commission is needed by both institutions. i fully share the conviction expressed in the decision to introduce the agreement that deepening democracy in the european union requires not only closer contacts between parliament and the commission but also closer control by parliament over the executive, i.e. the commission. i also noted with satisfaction that the second sentence of the decision refers to the european constitution, even though the constitution is not yet in force. moreover, the final provisions of the agreement contain a revision clause, which presupposes the need to amend the agreement after the entry into force of the constitution. these facts show that both the parliament and the commission not only recognise the importance and the importance of the european constitution, but also that they are aware of the need to put it into practice as soon as possible. the second point i would like to raise concerns the status of the commission's experts and expert groups. transparency of the composition, openness of the activities of the expert groups, and an updated and publicly available list of names are the basic principles enshrined in article 16 of the agreement. this is the right direction. i hope that these arrangements will contribute to the necessary transparency of the union, to its better perception and to the prevention of conflicts of interest and, as easily thrown, of suspicions of corruption.
on behalf of the alde group. it goes without saying how important cooperation with russia is for the european union and, for example, how important energy security is for the european union, which russia can provide in part. but it's hard not to be concerned about the way the big energy companies in russia are operating. it is enough to remind the house that the head of gazprom is the head of president putin's cabinet, that his first deputy, mr. sechin, runs rosneft, that mr. ivanov, mr. surkov and mr. prichodko run transneft, aeroflot, etc. therefore, the question clearly arises whether these companies are actually operating on the basis of market mechanisms or are they not rather an instrument of russia's foreign policy. and that's true, as evidenced by a number of recent events, such as the problem of oil supplies to ukraine. and there is also the question of where russian policy will go. well, we cannot but be concerned that in the duma, mr. dmitry rogozin has put forward a proposal for a legal solution which, if adopted, would allow russia to accept whole new territories into the russian federation without asking anyone's consent. the reasoning for this step is very clear about what territories are involved. and that is abkhazia, south ossetia, transdniestria and so on. the problem is that we should not, from time to time, bring our concerns to russia's attention, because these are completely unfounded concerns. what our relationship with russia will look like, what russia will look like, will be decided by russia, of course, but i think that the attention to some concerns should be there all the time. (laughter)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. today's russia has inherited the historical legacy of the soviet union, and feels itself its rightful heir. in relations with its neighbours, including poland, it stubbornly refuses to make any attempt to settle accounts with its criminal past, which consists of: the ribbentrop-molotov pact of 23 august 1939, the genocide that was the murder of polish officers in 1940 in katyn, kharkiv and mednoye, and in numerous nkvd kazams in the following years. the current relationship between the member states of the union and russia is also marked by the unresolved communist dictatorship imposed on the countries of central and eastern europe after the end of the second world war. in the context of the adoption of today's document, it is worth mentioning that the arrogance and deceit of the russian authorities in these matters, and their current policy towards, among others, chechnya, georgia, moldova, the baltic states, are in clear contradiction with democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and therefore with the values to which the european union is so eager to refer.
when we talk about relations with russia, we often think about the russians, about russian culture, about doing business with russian businessmen. and no wonder we think positively. but there is a problem with the policies of president putin, who violates human rights, restricts economic and political freedom, who reverts to a stalinist interpretation of history, who marks general jaruzelski, co-commander of the invasion of czechoslovakia in 1968 and the massacre of solidarity. the kremlin's policy of "divide and rule" has been around for a long time. russia has close and even friendly relations with some of the countries of the union, while others have been adversely affected. you could say that this is an age-old political strategy, but the question is, why would the other side allow this? and who's the other side? is it just some western countries whose governments believe that, contrary to historical experience, friendship with russia is worth paying for, or is it eastern european countries that are under increasing pressure from russia, or is it the whole of the union? there has been a lot of talk lately, particularly in the context of the constitutional treaty, about the union's common foreign policy. so we have a test of this policy. the union should today give russia a strong signal of solidarity, a signal that it will regard its attitude towards the new member states in eastern europe as an indication of russia's goodwill towards the union as a whole. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! cooperation with russia is of course very important, but it is equally important which russia we work with. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. so common values are more a postulate than a description of reality. this is a requirement which both the council and the commission should strive to achieve with all their strength. secondly, the agreement signed in moscow is a major step forward in the eu-russia dialogue, allowing us, among other things, to resolve local conflicts in transnistria, nagorno-karabakh, abkhazia and south ossetia. but at the same time, the chechen problem was excluded. the paradox is that how can we talk about building a common policy with russia, a common area of freedom, security and justice, without referring to what is happening in chechnya? so with the energy policy that minister schmidt was talking about, about removing barriers, that there is a prospect of removing barriers in energy cooperation. does this mean - and this is my question to the council and the commission - that a baltic pipeline, which could run along the bottom of the baltic sea and which could mean a diversification of the energy security of the various countries of the european union, would be accepted by the council and the commission or not? thirdly, our common success will depend first and foremost on the consistency of our common foreign and security policy. as long as it takes into account the interests of all, i emphasize, all 25 countries of the european union. we cannot afford to have russia play one eu member state against another. what kind of union would that be? what kind of community would that be? my country, poland, is fundamentally interested in good cooperation with russia. meanwhile, russia has been trying for years to show the world poland, including the european union, as a brake on dialogue between it and the west. we therefore strongly support - and this must be said in an open text - a realistic approach, but one which is also based on partnership, consistency and takes account of the interests of all the member states of the european union. (laughter)
high isbo! the development of partnership with russia remains one of the most important challenges for the european union. economic cooperation and cooperation in the international order in eurasia require deepening relations with russia and its people. the european union should seek to bring russia closer to the union, its standards and institutions. to this end, coordination of the european union's external policy towards russia is essential both within the union institutions and between the member states. relations with russia should not be subordinated to either temporary economic interests or negative historical experiences. the european union should make its civil society a special partner in its relations with russia, and we should support it in its efforts to promote democracy, media freedom and respect for human rights. today's russia presents a heterogeneous picture of a state that is waging a post-colonial war in chechnya on the one hand; a state that violates fundamental human rights in relation to the inhabitants of this region, on the other hand, is the target of ruthless terrorist activity; a country that has made an impressive democratic transformation in the last fifteen years, but which is now threatened by its authoritarian system - presidential, state control over the media and violation of the rule of law. when criticizing the system created by president putin, we must always remember that there is also another russia, which is most fully expressed in the thoughts and actions of andrei sakharov - this great european and great russian. the real russia today is defending russian democracy and that russia - the country of the memorial association or the pen club - expects the european union to support and help in the work of building russian democracy and bringing russia and the european union closer together.
member of the commission. mr president, i agree that we must strike the right balance, and we also have to address every question very clearly and frankly. the important thing is to have a frank dialogue and a dialogue on every question. that also means a dialogue on human rights questions and, for instance, on difficult issues like chechnya. i must say that we have had this very clear and frank dialogue. president putin himself has been very open. so, i see movement, although it is not yet sufficient or exactly what we want. we must continue in this direction. this interdependence means that we must go further. for instance, on chechnya, we have spoken clearly about the necessary political solution: there has to be territorial integrity but, at the same time, there must be some sort of autonomy for the people there and then there have to be free and fair elections. we in the european commission feel that we must do something for the population: not only provide humanitarian aid, but also assist in reconstruction. we are thinking of technical assistance, as i said: training for medical doctors and teachers in the eu member states; scholarships for students; the provision of medical and teaching equipment. there must be job creation and new activities for the future generation. these are very concrete actions. on the question of history, we know that there are still some very difficult, delicate issues between the baltic states and russia. it is really up to the historians to clarify the past so that our people can then reflect on the dark pages of european history. but our priority must be to look to the future and, in this regard, i repeat exactly what i said: we have to raise every question openly, whatever it may be. on the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline, i can only say that it has been inaugurated today with the strong support of the european union. finally, we will go on taking implementing action and we will take your comments into account, including comments on the need to guarantee human rights, democracy and stability. however, at the same time, we must also look to russia, our strategic partner, for solutions to problems in its neighbourhood and for solutions to problems with ourselves.
i thank you very much, commissioner, for your answer, for trying to answer my question, but i did not ask about the caucasian pipeline. i was asking about the baltic pipeline, the one that would run down the bottom of the baltic.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. there is nothing more beautiful than the rights of man: the right to freedom, the right to the truth. in general, true, real freedom is the most important of all human rights. and what we're talking about here... the institutional form of a new, yet another agency, with its wonderful rhetoric, at the expense of the european taxpayer, of course... a new law is being made that rules here. the most important law in the european union, my friends, is the parkinson's law. parkinson's law: one more desk, a few dozen more secretaries, a few dozen more political functionaries who will be tasked with replacing the truth. this is crazy politics. this policy is going nowhere. we need to bring about equality before the law and fair information. that will ensure true democracy and people will choose what they need and reject those who would violate real human rights. i object to that line of reasoning and to the creation of another agency.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken and who have made important contributions to the excellent work of the rapporteur. i believe that european action for fundamental rights and freedoms requires positive action and not just defence. i should like to explain, on behalf of the commission, what the agency should not represent. it must not and cannot be a super-tribunal, nor a new legislator, because the legislative task is entrusted to you, the commission and the council, not to the agency. the agency must not and cannot be a bureaucratic mechanism to accuse the states, but a body at the service of all the european institutions, an effective body which makes it possible to help the states and to encourage the policies of the states. it must not be a body for the settlement of individual issues or the multiplication of disputes, as some have claimed. the agency can't be any of that. i fully share the views of those who have said that we need a european conscience for respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover all types of waste. in this connection, i think that the work of the council of europe must be considered in all its importance. we are prepared to agree with the council of europe a common approach to avoid overlapping and to make use of its fundamental experience. some have re-proposed the theme of geographical competence: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we shall pay particular attention to the debate and the decision that parliament will take, but i believe that the agency can and should certainly have geographical competence within the member states at the outset, without excluding - for example, in relation to the candidate countries or those countries linked to europe by the so-called neighbourhood policies - the possibility of an action not of interference, but of important monitoring and information to this parliament. i would like to conclude by confirming the commission's full willingness to maintain a continuous link with parliament, because it is inconceivable that action on a matter as important as fundamental rights should not be taken in direct and continuous contact with parliament and in consultation with it.
mr. chairman, please! on many occasions, including in this room, we have heard loud voices opposing relocation. these objections are raised particularly at a time when an undertaking located in the territory of the old union is transferring part of its production to the territory of the new member states. meanwhile, these new countries are starting to get it. in poland, french thomson is moving to china, and vistula, a native polish manufacturer of branded suits, is moving to ukraine. this is just the beginning of a process that will continue to grow. however, it is symptomatic that despite the very high level of unemployment, no one in poland is calling for the introduction of rigid legal barriers that would block this process. nor is it seen as a bargaining chip in political disputes. on the contrary, there is agreement that the way in which action to prevent relocation should be taken is quite different. first of all, by reducing labour costs and increasing the competitiveness of the goods produced. i think it is worth taking a closer look at this polish path and recommending it to all those, especially in france and germany, who are proposing draconian measures for those entrepreneurs who have taken seriously the fundamental principle of the european single market. (laughter)
i wanted to convey the protest of polish nurses and midwives against the planned introduction by the european commission of legislation discriminating against polish nurses in relation to other member states. it is the right and responsibility of the competent polish authorities to determine the completion of training in accordance with the requirements of the directive and the recognition of qualifications obtained under standard conditions of acquired rights. the polish nurses ask for the deletion of article 4b of directive 77/452 and the replacement of article 31 (2) of the new draft as contrary to the basic standards of community law and propose the addition to the annex of the directive of the titles: professional diploma and bachelor's diploma. although polish nurses should work in their homeland, where they were educated, first totalitarian, communist, and now liberal governments have brought the country to such ruin that some poles are forced to emigrate because of unemployment and starvation wages of 200 euros, at prices comparable to those in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! on may 18th, my colleague protasiewicz and i went to cuba. the european union suspended diplomatic sanctions against the havana regime a few months ago to consider how to further shape relations between havana and brussels. a few weeks ago, our colleagues from the party of european socialists visited cuba. the two of us decided to go to the cuban opposition meeting on may 20th. unfortunately, we were unable to do so. we were already deported from the airport, our names were on the castro regime's blacklist. we were denied entry, put on a plane back to mexico, and from there to europe. i would ask the president of the european parliament to protest to the cuban authorities, to demand an explanation and to introduce, as an item in the next strasbourg session, a debate on the situation in cuba and relations with the fidel castro regime, which must be based on respect for human rights and the demand for the release of political prisoners in cuba.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the polish member is chairing the proceedings, because i want to say that things are happening in the republic of poland which the european union tolerates, even though they are in total contradiction with the economic policy of the union. namely, for all cars purchased in the european union countries, poland levies an excise duty of 3,1% for cars up to 2 litres capacity and 13,6% for cars above 2 litres capacity. since the polish parliament has not recently passed a resolution to change this law to environmental protection, this practice will continue, preying on polish potential car buyers and whistling in the face of what is in force in the european union, and supposedly equality here. i therefore call for pressure to be exerted to eliminate this practice, which is harmful to polish taxpayers and to the european union.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the european union is currently debating a compromise draft common budget for 2007-13. the luxembourg presidency has recently sent a proposal for cuts to the capitals of the member states. compared to the original draft presented by the european commission, the total union expenditure would be between 4 and 7% lower. the intention to weaken cohesion policy is clearly evident in this draft. the smaller budget must mean looking for savings primarily in the structural and cohesion funds, especially those that are addressed to the poorest countries in the union. under pressure from the largest payers, regional aid, which is mainly for the new member states, is to be reduced. it should therefore be recalled that the promotion of social, economic and territorial cohesion and solidarity between member states is one of the objectives of the treaty on european union. we must be aware that without maintaining the principle of eu solidarity, the civilizational gap between the old 15 and the new member states, one of the consequences of the post-war division of europe, will not be bridged. it should also be made clear that the cuts proposed by the richest are incompatible with the ambitious goals of the european union after enlargement.
mr president, on monday i was in belarus with a number of members all day. this was related to the violation of the right of national minorities to self-determination and to representation in belarus of the union of poles in this country. mr. chairman, please! in less than a year, belarus will hold presidential elections. well, in totalitarian countries like belarus, where dictatorships rule, a common method is to find scapegoats and blame national minorities for their failures. that's what happened in belarus. the union of poles was declared the scapegoat and poland, polish diplomacy, was declared public enemy number one in belarus. several times a day, two government television programs broadcast a program that falsely and slanderously portrays poland as intending to cause the dissolution of belarus and interfere in its internal affairs. the belarusian government has not recognised the democratic elections in this union. mr. chairman, please! the only effective method of influencing the actions on the territory of belarus is the intervention and support of the european union states, mps and politicians in such a way as to recognize the elections in the union of poles in belarus by force of pressure. i would like to see a debate on this in the european parliament. a hot topic that...
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report (a6-0137/2005) by mr hartmut nassauer, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering, including terrorist financing (com (2004) 0448 - c6-0143/2004 - 2004/0137 (cod)).
i apologise, but there are technical issues involved. i will try to see to it that it does not happen again.
ladies and gentlemen! the draft directive under discussion imposes a legal obligation on lawyers practising the profession to identify, record and disclose to the financial services of the state confidential information provided by a client in the course of providing legal aid. as a practicing lawyer, i can say with full conviction that this solution significantly affects the independence of the legal profession and violates the observance of professional secrecy, which is one of the fundamental principles of the profession. a lawyer who is required to work for a third party from the very beginning of his client's dealings becomes a witness for the prosecution, or his client's worst enemy. in conclusion, the scope of the proposed directive constitutes an excessive interference with the exercise of the legal profession. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the judiciary and the existence of genuine and not a sham defence, it is necessary to exclude acts of professional secrecy from the scope of activities aimed at combating money laundering.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank members for their contributions. the adoption of parliament’s opinion in line with the agreement reached with the council will pave the way for the early adoption of this directive. this would not have been possible without a spirit of cooperation and compromise on all sides and the political will to make it happen. i would like to thank you warmly for this. the european union is in the vanguard of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, adding to its credibility and weight in its bilateral relations with its main diplomatic partners as well as in the different international fora dealing with these matters. mrs wallis raised the issue of the treatment of lawyers. the commission is favourable to the amendment to article 39, which foresees that within two years of the expiry of the deadline for transposition of the directive the commission will draw up a report on its implementation, which will include the specific examination of the treatment of lawyers and other professions. but, in any case, i reiterate my firm intention, as also expressed in replies to parliamentary questions, to carry out by mid-2006 an examination of the treatment of lawyers and other legal professions, amongst others, as foreseen in the second directive, which is still applicable. let me once again thank mr nassauer, mr muscat and all the others who have contributed to this positive outcome. the commission fully endorses the agreement and accepts all amendments that form part of the compromise package agreed with the council.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the report will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report (a6-0132/2005) by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the draft decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council decision 2001/51/ec establishing a programme relating to the community framework strategy on gender equality and decision no 848/2004/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of community action to promote organisations active at european level in the field of equality between men and women (com (2004) 551 - c6-0107/2004 - 2004/0194 (cod)).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. with one minute to spare, i would like to say that we are against the implementation of the programme in the form of equality, which is to antagonize both sexes, where the woman in the fight for better treatment takes a hostile attitude towards the man, which only causes competition between the sexes, and which is what is happening lately in the european union. the dangerous tendency to try to eliminate differences is also leading to many, even tragic, consequences at different levels, and it would therefore be advisable to take account of and actively interact with men and women based on the recognition of existing differences. a man is a person in equal measure. sexuality is not just physical, but mental and spiritual. the role of women is irreplaceable in all aspects of family and social life. this particular kind of concern, this dedication to the service of others, the holy father, the late john paul ii, aptly and fully described as the genius of a woman, which, unfortunately, some people try to degrade.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your discussion. i think she's captured a whole range of approaches, even in such a short time. there is no doubt that equal opportunities is a long-term task and we often forget how much progress has been made. by the way, it is a little over a hundred years ago, in 1871, that women first entered secondary school in the czech lands. today, more than 50% of people with higher education are women. i think we need to look at things from a longer perspective, when it's quite clear that we have a lot of work to do. as for the level of british pilots, i have no doubt that they are among the best in the world, and i have no doubt about the level of british airlines, so i have no fear in using them, and i am sure that even in a very complicated environment, an appropriate solution can be found that takes into account the legitimate demands of women. the programme is therefore, as i said at the beginning, a technical extension of the current programme, and is also an extension of the programme for supporting active european organisations in the field of equal opportunities, i.e. without being limited to any particular type or form or political orientation of the organisation.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. the sitting will be resumed at 9 p.m.
i want to say that in poland and many other new member states, there is growing criticism of the harmful chemisation of agriculture and food processing, enforced by the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy, which is falling victim to family farms that could have switched to the production of certified organic food. numerous studies of natural foods show increased levels of absorbable vitamins, minerals and other health-promoting substances, compared to products of industrial agriculture. therefore, efforts should be made to replace the demand for artificial food additives created by advertising and pseudo-scientific lobbying, while ensuring that consumers have broad access to truly safe, high-value natural foods. it seems that the work of the envi commission and parliament should be commended here, which have ensured that medical and commercial arguments are balanced in the creation of the new law, together with the curtailment of fraudulent practices by the food industry, which is gaining markets for products harmful to health.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank mrs schierhuber for the quality of her report, as well as for the amendments tabled. this draft regulation is of great importance. it is included in the package of proposals made by the commission in the scope of the financial perspectives and defines the rules for financing the common agricultural policy. the purpose of this regulation is to clarify and simplify these financing rules, to improve our management and control system and to adapt and reinforce our rules on budget discipline, taking into account the reform of the cap decided in 2003. the bringing together of the rules relating to the two new funds in one single regulation must be considered as a major simplification concerning the rural development policy where we stop using different financial rules for the same measures depending on the region where they apply. the single management and control system chosen for both funds takes advantage of the good experience we have acquired in the field of the eaggf guarantee section. however, this system needed some reinforcement in order to constitute a modern management and control system. a major new element in it is the declaration of assurance given by the head of the paying agencies. i would also like to draw your attention to the new system for the follow-up of irregularities and recoveries. this system should ensure that major amounts will not be outstanding indefinitely. both these elements are in line with parliament’s 2003 discharge recommendations. this regulation on the financing of the cap would not be complete without the relevant rules on budget discipline. these rules are, however, also reinforced where needed and adapted to the new rules we decided upon in the reform adopted back in 2003. my position on the amendments is as follows. although i can agree with the purpose of amendment 1, i do not consider it legally necessary or even good legal practice to follow it. the exception of expenditure stated in article 13 will apply. it is not necessary to state this again in article 5. i can accept amendment 2 and amendment 7 with, however, some small drafting changes. amendments 3, 4 and 5 are all reducing the 36-month period used in clearance of accounts to determine the expenses which can be the subject of a clearance decision. i have to inform you that this proposal was based on a recommendation from the court of auditors, as well as from parliament. however, if you adopt these amendments, taking into account the fact that all member states also ask for this time limit to be reduced to 24 months, i will accept them. i regret i cannot accept amendment 6. the proposal for a flat-rate approach on recoveries in the event of irregularities is a fundamental part of the commission’s proposal. we cannot justify to the european taxpayers that more than eur 2 billion is outstanding and for which we cannot put into place a manageable follow-up system. the past has proven that the existing system which needs a case-by-case, yearly examination of the more than 10 000 outstanding recovery files is impossible. the flat-rate approach shares out the financial responsibility equally between member states and commission, once the normal period for the recovery has elapsed. for cases in which recovery action is taken in courts, we now propose to allow for a normal period of eight years. your proposal would be to wait for the final judicial decision. this would take away all the benefits that are actually being sought. furthermore, it makes the whole system superfluous as once a final judicial decision is taken, there is no reason to apply the provisional flat-rate solution of sharing the financial burden between member states and the community budget.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mrs schillhuber's report is well written and there is little to add or take away from it. congratulations to the rapporteur! the draft regulation itself is of a high standard. let me just give you a general thought. high isbo! it is important that the billions of euros which the european union spends on the common agricultural policy, but also on other community policies, are properly controlled. eu money should be spent in an exemplary manner, with anti-corruption standards in particular. their distribution should be based on objective criteria, transparent procedures and systematic controls. the practice is, unfortunately, far from this pattern. eu money is very often spent in a vague, opaque and uncontrolled way. the commission's proposal is to strengthen the controls on the distribution of eu money, not just on the beneficiaries, farmers or local authorities. the control exercised by the european commission does not ensure proper supervision of the spending of eu money. this is not an entirely objective check, since irregularities in the allocation of these funds sometimes result from errors not only on the part of the member states but also on the part of the commission itself. it is hard to expect the commission to point out its own mistakes. stronger external control by the european court of auditors is necessary, with as wide a cooperation as possible with the control authorities of the member states. a proper control system is needed, which is not currently available. the court of auditors must be strengthened and its role should not be to issue positive certificates but to identify actual irregularities. this is essential to ensure that community money is distributed fairly and equitably.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the council proposes many things that are right, wise and rational, but unfortunately for the people of the new member states, the most important thing is what is not in this draft. and that most important thing is the issue of real equality in the labour market. the citizens of the new union, if they want to take european integration seriously and seriously, cannot and will not accept a situation in which the citizens of the new union, the citizens of poland, the czech republic, hungary, slovakia, lithuania, latvia, estonia and the other 12 countries of the old union, apart from great britain, ireland and sweden, are still treated as second-class citizens. he'll take them on, but he'll do it for cash. yes, but much less than the people of this smaller union before may 2004. the council should not behave like an ostrich that hides its head in the sand before a problem, because this matter is the responsibility of the council and not the commission. as soon as possible, the full opening of labour markets will really revolutionize the union's economy and show the citizens of the new union's member countries that there is no such thing as europe a and europe b.
i 'd like to introduce an oral amendment to amendment 42 . replace the following, i quote in english: ... to look at the russian attitude to any member state, and the new eu member states in particular, as a test of the russian goodwill in relation to the european union. show solidarity and unity within the eu between the old and the new member states alike in the event of russia aiming to differentiate its approach towards them. it is the principle of solidarity in the union's foreign policy that is at issue, and i would therefore ask you very much to support this amendment in amendment no 42.
mr president, i wish to propose that we insert the word ‘german’ before the word ‘nazi’, so that it would read ‘german nazi’.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. in the shadow of the rejection of the european constitution there is a less important but also important issue which has been discussed for many months in our parliament - on 10 march the european parliament adopted a resolution on the terrorist activities of hezbollah. it is important how the numerous islamic communities in europe are informed about terrorism. the media play a huge role here, for example the almanar tv, which is widely watched by european muslims. but one can have serious reservations about the objectivity of this tv channel in reporting on islamic terrorism. the same is true of spain's hispasat and france's globecast, which are in breach of european legislation in this area, as are arabsat from saudi arabia and nilesat from egypt. the question is: how long will the spanish and french governments tolerate this situation with their national television broadcasters? this is a very serious matter.
mr. chairman, please! polish metalworkers point to a sharp increase in imports of metal products, mainly so-called metal goods, from 1 january 2005 (after the abolition of administrative restrictions on such imports into the european customs territory). the companies point out that chinese producers do not include in the cost of production insurance premiums and social benefits for workers, as well as environmental standards, which allows them to significantly undercut the prices of exported products. in addition, they benefit from various forms of state support, which is characterised by prohibited state aid. all this is increasing the phenomenon of unfair competition, exacerbating the problems of european, including polish, entrepreneurs in this sector. i ask the president to raise this issue with the european commission and suggest that the commission prepare solutions to protect the european union market from excessive imports of metal products from china. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! in view of the large quantities of honey from third countries entering the european union and the alarming information from consumers about the poor quality of the honey, i believe that protective measures are necessary. the absence of such measures will exacerbate the already difficult situation of beekeeping. it should be noted that in recent years the decline in the bee population in europe has been close to 40%; for example, in germany it has fallen by 33% in 15 years, and in poland by 40% in 20 years. bees are not just honey and other products of beekeeping. it's also about balance in nature and efficiency in food production. bees are also vital to the preservation of the environment. in view of the above, i believe that the european commission should urgently submit to parliament proposals for action in this area, covering not only the protection of the market for honey and bee products but also the protection of bees and the development of beekeeping.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to speak today about a matter that has been stirring public opinion in my country for many weeks - i mean the harassment by the regime of alexander lukashenko of the newly elected authorities of the union of poles in belarus. for many years we have been accustomed to the fact that basic human rights are not respected in belarus; suffice it to say that a few days ago two leaders of the democratic opposition, nikolai statkievich and pavel sadyrynievich, were sentenced to 3 years in a penal colony for organizing anti-government demonstrations. nevertheless, what has recently happened to the polish national minority organization is particularly reprehensible for the authorities of the european union. i remind you that in march at the congress the new authorities of the union of poles in belarus were elected. the belarusian ministry of justice not only did not recognize them, but threatened to delegitimize the entire organization. if we add to this the suspension of the only polish newspaper głos z niemna, and the expulsion of a polish diplomat, we have a full picture of the repression that poles are subjected to in belarus. the recent drastic actions of the belarusian authorities clearly indicate that they fear a repeat of the democratic revolution in ukraine. i hope that their fears will be realised, but for that to happen, a more active policy of the european union is necessary.
mr. chairman, please! the draft inspire directive provides for the establishment of rules for the establishment of spatial information infrastructure for the purposes of community environmental policies in the member states. it is intended to cover mainly spatial data sets and related services, network technologies for sharing, access and use, as well as mechanisms for coordination and monitoring procedures. the objectives of systematising and standardising the data and creating a database for the european union would be worth considering if it were not for the political and economic situation in which many european countries are currently found, with rising unemployment and low economic growth. new directives are constantly proposed, the costs of which are borne primarily by the poorest. the inspire implementation investment per member state can be up to eur 5 million per year. the database is not expected to be fully operational for another ten years. it is worth emphasising that the pursuit of information infrastructure cannot be contrary to the social policy of individual countries. under the guise of the lofty aims proclaimed by the authors of the directive, a database is being created which can serve a variety of purposes, and can also be used for political games, which is dangerous. we therefore believe that, of the many problems to be solved in the european union, this one does not seem to be the most important, and that it requires further work and the introduction of many safeguards.
ladies and gentlemen! we understand the importance of reinsurance in the insurance and banking industries. it is of enormous importance to all companies, regardless of their size, and in this connection a few points arise - for the sake of time - two of which i would like to mention. firstly, are we doing the right thing by limiting the regulation envisaged in the directive to reinsurance undertakings only - we know very well that insurance companies use mutual insurance to reduce risk and that banks do the same by providing bank guarantees. secondly, there is the need for compulsory reinsurance of contingency insurance - there are 14 types of contingency insurance, which are, as the name suggests, unpredictable and therefore very high risk, although sometimes this risk does not occur for many years. this risk is present both in large insurance companies and in many small ones, especially in agriculture, where many farms result in a very large insurance scale. finally, i would like to say that although i agree that any regulation improves the situation, i am unfortunately missing a lot of things in the proposed directive.
mr president, the house, the commissioner! we're talking about a special area of human activity here today, agriculture, which is simply our biological existence. but we are aware that it has not only an economic dimension, but also a social, ecological and cultural one. i therefore commend mrs schierhuber for the effort she has put into producing such a good report. we know that more and more people are living in the countryside today who have a loose connection with agriculture. all this leads to a significant convergence of agricultural policy and regional policy. rural areas must therefore be able to provide a rational basis for multi-directional agricultural activities, ensuring the production and processing of the highest quality agricultural products. at the same time, they should ensure that the people living there have a decent standard of living. family, social, and cultural ties also need to be cared for. in these areas, ecology and tourism are also important. i will just focus on some of the issues. member states must be aware that adequate own resources are also necessary in national budgets for these purposes. secondly, support from the fund should be given as much weight as possible to local, integration and small business issues. thirdly, the fund should be managed in a way that takes account of geographical conditions, such as the specific nature of mountain and foothill areas. fourthly, the rural education system and agricultural advisory services need to be taken seriously. fifth, the countryside needs modern infrastructure, such as roads, water supply, sewerage, telephony, internet access. it must also provide basic health care, as well as access to culture, recreation and, as i have already stressed, to a good education. i propose that more money be spent on rural activation; it certainly won't be wasted if it's under the control of local communities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! without rural development, there will be no further development of agriculture. this thesis is supported by economic, economic, environmental and social arguments, including demographic ones. i come from eastern poland, from lublin, one of the ten poorest regions in the european union, where the rural population is predominant, with small farms of about eight hectares on average. these farms require concentration, the merging of land. farmers often farm dozens of plots. so far, instead of receiving aid, they have mostly lost the ability to produce profitably, including flax, hemp, tobacco and, more recently, soft fruit. direct payments to small farms do not provide a decent income for the people working there. so we have to think not only about the development of rural areas, about agricultural and forestry production, but above all about people, especially as these economically poor regions are very rich in terms of culture and environment. they have preserved their natural landscape, their language, their traditional culture and the ethical and moral values that european societies need today. these values must be preserved for the next generations to come. people in poor regions need special help. it is good that the council regulation on rural development by the european agricultural fund also covers the issues of counselling, vocational training and tourism, although unfortunately not to a sufficient extent. you can't ignore the education of the youth. we must remember that only comprehensive and thoughtful action can bring the desired results. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs schierhuber for her exemplary handling of a difficult subject, with many amendments. i bow low.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the european union faces a key challenge with the enlargement of its borders to ten new member states. for several months now, we have been debating a new rural development policy, the main aim of which is to improve the living and working conditions of rural families and to provide more new non-agricultural functions. the new policy is designed to help restructure and modernise agriculture, and to make it more competitive while protecting the environment. the problem of adequate financing of rural areas needs to be addressed. this aid is particularly needed in poland, which is facing structural problems and high unemployment. if the union is going to cut rural development, then the new member states, which have been given a 10-year extension to the full direct payments, should be excluded from the cut, on the grounds that we have greater needs in rural development and now we want to cut the funds for that purpose. if the european commission wanted to reconcile the limitations on the allocation of funds for rural development in the old cohesion countries, it cannot do so at the expense of the new member states. hopefully, the introduction of a single financing and programming instrument will simplify the management and control of the new rural development policy. state forests should also be eligible for support under the new fund, as this could have a negative impact on the achievement of the natura 2000 objectives, as these forest areas contain very valuable natural areas. technical assistance should be provided to the administrations and lags of the new countries to avoid problems with the full scale implementation of the leader axis. particular attention should also be paid to the development of human capital, especially women and youth, who play a key role in rural development.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's draft and report make a number of important proposals to help rural areas, particularly agricultural areas, and i would like to emphasize the non-agricultural aspects. i am mainly referring to two things, namely infrastructure (water, roads, sewerage, telephones) to raise the standard of living in rural areas. second, education -- this is about giving equal opportunities to those who come from the countryside as compared to those who come from the city and to stop the flight to the cities. we're seeing this pattern, this fashion of going back to the countryside, but only to live in the midst of nature. the idea is to enable the rural population to work there, to be self-sufficient, especially in small businesses. the village is deserted. the project will help to maintain the demographic balance, reduce the negative selection that is a consequence of migration to cities. with the technology of communication, transport, many people, like computer scientists, small entrepreneurs, could live and produce goods in the countryside, but for that you have to create the right conditions, or at least help them. in this way, we preserve the traditions of family enterprise and, therefore, family ties, which are invaluable for today's europe. we also preserve the continuity of values without which europe as a union cannot function, without which there is no reason for being. in conclusion, investing in rural areas will not be a bad investment. europe will be well served by it, and in many important ways.
mr. chairman, please! terrorism is a deadly disease that has become a global epidemic at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries. the modern world has become bipolar, not just because of poverty and wealth. he became bipolar because of good and evil. good is public safety, evil is terrorism. we learned to study terrorism scientifically, to distinguish between its varieties, to explore its causes, to talk about state terrorism, individual terrorism, global terrorism, local terrorism, fundamentalism. there is only one terrorism. it's just unimaginable evil that one man can do to another. the european union's fundamental duty under the treaty, enshrined in article 29 of the maastricht treaty, is to ensure the security of its citizens. is the union succeeding in this? do our citizens feel safe? i guess not always, since we had examples of march 11 in madrid and many, many others. criminals take advantage of our integration achievements because they can move freely because we have no internal borders. and they often get away with it, because we have 25 different legal systems, criminal systems. the european union must develop new and more effective tools to prevent this. the counterterrorism package we're discussing today is exactly what it does. it is good that this package contains such strong appeals for the protection of human rights alongside the anti-terrorist proposals. this package takes into account all previous arrangements and achievements, starting with trevi in 1975, through vienna, tampere, through the post 11 september 2001 action plan, and finally after the hague programme. these actions have led to the creation of the european arrest warrant, eurojust and the european coordinator for counter-terrorism. the union has continuously and systematically improved its counter-terrorism tools, but is that enough? to achieve an effect, you have to go further. to find an antidote to megaterrorism, or mass destruction terrorism, we need new, better coordinated efforts. we need to anticipate and anticipate terrorist activity, not wait for an attack and then deal with the aftermath. we need to move faster and more efficiently. the terrorists need to know that, they need to feel that. this requires closer international cooperation and the application of article 43 of the european constitution, which contains a solidarity clause that is so important to us. in conclusion, i would like to say that as a pole i am very proud that it is poland that has been entrusted with the protection of the external borders of the european union. we'll also be making a contribution to the counterterrorism effort.
i would like to turn to commissioner frattini, who has made a good introduction to this debate. you, mr. commissioner, are not mistaken in your thinking, but this reasoning contains one weakness - you are referring to preparations for a war that has already taken place. the war on terror requires one thing: imagination, a very special use of imagination, because terrorists have imagination. i want to help you get that imagination going a little bit. tell me, where does a plane land that has a case of a contagious disease, like smallpox, or some other disease? do we have any such designated airports in the member states? tell me, what are the procedures for detecting a pathogen that is transmitted from human to human? what are the procedures for detecting a pathogen that is not transmissible from human to human? let's ask ourselves in the context of this conflict that's about to happen, bioterrorism is a weapon that requires imagination. i hope that the union will be an organization that will consolidate the efforts of the state, the national efforts. second point to make at the end: you have used a lot of words in this discussion today condemning terrorism. what do you call an institution that technically allows the broadcast of a television station owned by a terrorist organization in the middle east? is this an institution that supports terrorism or not? let's answer these questions: aren't there financial institutions, media institutions, that are actually creating the conditions for terrorism to flourish, and flourish quite well? and here we have the comfort of condemnation.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. with all due respect to mr böge's work, i have to say the following: the draft financial perspective is worth as much as the draft constitutional treaty and should suffer the same fate. the draft financial perspectives should be rejected by parliament, which should thereby demonstrate that it understands and shares the point of view of the majority of the citizens of the union and therefore respects the principles of democracy by expressing the will of the citizens and representing and defending their interests. why is the financial perspective bad? since it adopts unfavourable economic indicators and mechanisms, it limits the level of the membership fee to around 1%. secondly, it receives a high share of agricultural expenditure. thirdly, it accepts the low growth rate of expenditure on the structural and cohesion funds. fourth, it allocates more than 75% of its r&amp;d budget to the highly developed countries. fifth, administrative expenditure is rising rapidly and sixth, there is no liberalisation of the services market. what will be the consequences of adopting these unfavorable solutions? first, instead of solving economic problems, they will be accumulated, growth and competitiveness will not be accelerated, and differences in development between countries will not be reduced but increased. secondly, there will be a deterioration in the social situation, as there is no family-friendly policy that creates employment, increases income and, consequently, promotes natural growth. there is no, and rather there is a growing income gap between a small group of rich and a large group of poor. thirdly, the draft financial perspective does not resolve but rather increases political tensions within the union due to the lack of funds for the construction of transport and communication infrastructure. fourthly, there is a lack of funds for foreign policy and aid to countries such as ukraine and belarus, and at the same time there are promises to turkey to join the union, which cannot be fulfilled and will therefore complicate relations with the islamic world. in conclusion, the adoption of the draft financial perspective is contrary to the union's declared economic and social objectives. this confirms that the union is dominated by a bureaucratic and technocratic point of view, and at the same time it is not the idea of global competition. the mps for independence and democracy will vote against this bill. it is high time to debate the need for a new strategy of economic cooperation between the countries of europe.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the financial perspective presented by the rapporteur is close to what we can achieve at this point. this is a very difficult time. the council cannot agree on a common position on the ceiling for commitments and payments, and the french and dutch have rejected the constitutional treaty by a majority. the time has come to set the record straight on the obscure treaty, which mixes law with hopes and dreams, not always healthy ones. there are claims against the union, and they are very divergent. some of the old member states feel that the union is not protecting their jobs enough. others say he takes sovereignty without giving anything in return. still others say it overregulates the economy and costs too much. others are not willing to give up their privileges, and the fault for the failure of these divergent strategies lies with the legendary polish plumber, who works reliably and cheaply, and is feared by children and young people looking for work, instead of seriously undertaking economic reforms. some net payers are, in effect, applying the principle represented in the old utopia "from us - according to our ability, to us - according to our needs". as a result, there is always not enough eu money. we are therefore discussing the financial perspective without knowing whether the council will reach an agreement and whether the foundations of the main member states will not be further strengthened. but we still have to make a decision. we propose to support mr böge's report, albeit with a few amendments. firstly, we do not agree with the linking of the level of contributions to the reform of own resources, which seems to be an attempt to further distance the member states' contributions from their income. secondly, we do not accept the co-financing of agriculture, which is the first step towards the renationalisation of agricultural policy. thirdly, we believe that the current 2007-2013 time horizon is more appropriate, as it is more in line with the multiannual programmes and the common agricultural policy. the union has functioned and will function without the thousands of baroque articles of the recently dead constitution. citizens in many countries are losing confidence in the union. is this not the result of the launching of illusions that are then ignored by the political elites? is it not an illusion to repeat the slogans of subsidiarity at a time when the excessively, often unnecessarily, bloated welfare state is close to bankruptcy? is it not a paradox that countries seeking rapid integration are cutting back on the union? is the lisbon strategy not an illusion, currently drowned out by the demagogic war on the free market? what is the fault of the peoples of these countries, who, having made the necessary reforms, have developed more rapidly and are more competitive? parliament will do its duty by adopting mr böge's report. the council's position is more constructive. (laughter)
mr president, we are in a situation where it seems naive to expect that the new financial perspective will be based on the same principles as the previous financial plans of the european union, which had nothing to do with the soviet five-year plans - and that principle was: an increasing budget as needs increase. this would be a reasonable expectation today, given that the countries that joined the union became relatively poor, the number of farmers who qualified for direct aid, although it was not their invention, increased dramatically, and finally, the number of tasks that are also measurable in money. it would be an expectation that would certainly be one of the motives for the massive institutional reforms in central and eastern europe - reforms that i am convinced would, even in part, be a difficult test for the political class of the countries of the so-called "old" european union. but you have to face the facts. the reality is that the compromise that the prodigy commission has proposed is a compromise that is difficult to defend. this is the compromise that mr böge has proposed, with his good will and his hard work, and the proportions that are there are important. no one is disputing that we should support research and development, the knowledge-based economy, with public money, but there is no evidence yet that this is an effective flow of money, so it cannot be done at the expense of something that is proven, visible - that is, regional and cohesion policy, and that is not antagonistic to the old and new cohesion countries. tomorrow we need a strong parliament vote to that effect, as we are waiting for the government to agree. europe needs proof that it is working. the european summit is such an opportunity, it is also an opportunity to show that we are moving forward by means of a sensible compromise.
mr. chairman, please! mr reimer böge, presenting his excellent report, said that its subject was a europe for the future. i think it's a great formula. it is on the basis of this formula that the european parliament and the european commission meet, on the other hand we have the european council, which is currently unable to get beyond national egoism and find the answers that europe needs. the only response to the crisis of the european project is the good news that europe is capable of looking to the future with hope and can create that hope. the reimer böge report shows very well that there is no contradiction between the cohesion policy, the solidarity policy which the european union is pursuing, and the competitiveness of the european economy. this is important. i think it is equally important that the financial perspective should be a factor in the unification of europe, not a factor which increases the distance between the new and the old member states, between eastern and western europe. we have to understand the particular vulnerability of the countries that have just joined europe.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very special guest. the financial perspective will define the scale, framework and effectiveness of the european union's action for the coming years. we have great challenges ahead of us. we want enlargement to be a success, we want to lay the foundations for rapid growth and employment, we want to achieve the new objectives that have been developed in the discussions on the european constitution. the financial perspective must meet these expectations. we all want more europe because we believe that building a common europe is the right answer to the challenges of our time. in the work on the financial perspective, two concepts, two ways of thinking, clashed. - one, represented by the commission, assumes an ambitious but balanced increase in spending, i.e. meeting rising expectations. the second, represented by a group of member states, involves a reduction in the budget in proportion to gdp. we understand that the increased tasks of the european union must be carried out within tight budgetary constraints and in conditions of weak economic activity. however, these limitations should in no way obscure the clear benefits of union action financed from the common budget. so a compromise is needed, and the european parliament's proposal is a reasonable compromise. let me take this opportunity to thank mr böge for the work he has put into this document. ladies and gentlemen, after the defeat of the french and dutch referendums, europe needs a firm affirmation that integration is and remains our common future. i therefore call on the council to compromise, to reject selfish and conservative attitudes, to reject the narrow perspective of purely national interests. i am calling for a compromise because the european union must have a clear vision and the financial capacity to act as soon as possible. together, let us show that europe can act in a spirit of solidarity and that political leaders are able to rise above the political calculations of the moment and to reach an agreement for the common good.
mr. chairman, please! it is a pity that in practice the european parliament is not in solidarity with the european commission on the union budget. we talk a lot about a strong union that can compete with the us or asia. can you imagine a strong union with a small budget? this is a paradox! the proposal of the interim committee is worse, to put it bluntly, than the barroso proposal, but it is much better than the hopeless alleged compromise of the luxembourg presidency. the imposition of their views by the richest countries of the union is destroying the vision of a europe of solidarity, a europe of all. if we want a europe of selfishness and a europe of self-interest, let us support a small union budget. unless the proposal for the new member states is essentially this: the enlarged union is to be a europe of solidarity only in obligations, but not in privileges, especially financial ones. and one last thing: the current seven-year outlook is better than the five-year outlook.
mr. chairman, please! the issue of immigration, integration and asylum remains taboo, especially in the old eu countries. everyone avoids it and probably that's why the tampere 99 programme is not properly continued. the constitutional referendum in the netherlands is a "no" vote, partly because of the lack of seriousness of the immigration issue. i therefore welcome this debate as an opportunity for a frank exchange of views, although i disagree with many of the wording in the report and i fear that the debate will not be frank. politicians lack the courage to address immigration and integration issues. it makes me nervous when i hear that we agree to legal immigration and we don't agree to illegal immigration. this is hypocrisy! there's no such thing as legal immigration. it's basically just illegal. even of the 50,000 poles working in brussels, only about 5,000 work and reside legally, let alone citizens of non-eu countries. it makes me nervous when i hear about the fight against human traffickers, when the real problem for us is the people coming in who are grateful to the traffickers for the loyal, unfortunately, paying service. let's call it what it is, let's establish a common european immigration law. let's be frank, immigration to europe is mostly non-existent, and in our view, muslim nations integrate worse than christian nations. the truth, however painful, is better than a lie. let's stop living with colonial guilt. let us speak openly about our situation and thoughts, and where possible, let us help the poor part of the world where they live through intergovernmental programs.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the subject of our discussions is a proposal for a council directive amending articles 7, 8, 9, 10 of directive 92/12 eec. i would remind you that the directive contains general provisions on the marketing and storage of products subject to excise duty, in particular alcohol and tobacco products, but also liquid fuels. i would also point out that article 27 of the 1992 directive required the commission to submit a report to the council on the operation and application of articles 7, 8, 9 and 10 for the period up to 1997. for various reasons explained by the commission, this report on the application of those articles is only being discussed today, after a delay of several years. i would point out that article 7 concerns the marketing of excise goods by undertakings for commercial purposes, article 8 concerns the marketing of excise goods by individuals for personal purposes, article 9 defines the moment when the tax liability arises and sets out the indicative limits to be used to determine whether the excise goods transported are of a commercial nature or are intended for individual use. finally, article 10 lays down the manner and place of the tax liability, the obligations of tax intermediaries and the conditions of distance sales, the so-called distance sales conditions. the determination and application of these articles in practice has raised a number of doubts, both among individuals, travellers and tourists, and among undertakings professionally engaged in the trade and circulation of excise goods. the commission has therefore decided to propose some amendments to the wording of the four articles mentioned above, with a view to two main principles. first, the commission wanted to apply consistently the principle of the single market, namely that excise duty is paid in the country of destination for trade. however, for the sale by persons buying excise goods for their own use, excise duty was to be levied in the country of origin of the goods. the commission therefore proposes to amend article 7 to define what constitutes trade and, according to the commission's definition, any trade which is not for personal use is trade. further amendments to article 7 concern the simplification of the language and the use of more precise wording. finally, the commission also proposes in article 7 to clarify who is liable to pay the tax. the commission is introducing a very important amendment to article 7, namely that the purchase of goods by private individuals need not necessarily take the form of the transport of those goods by the persons concerned and that it should also be possible for private individuals to order excise goods at a distance with delivery to their place of residence. this also applies to so-called gifts. it is therefore the introduction of the principle that trade for personal use is possible not only when the traveller carries goods with him but also when someone carries goods on his behalf and at his expense. in article 9, the commission proposes an important change, namely the abolition of quantitative limits which have hitherto been used against their intended purpose. finally, in article 10, the commission again proposes to make certain changes to simplify the procedure. the rapporteur is of the opinion that all changes to tax law in the european union should meet four criteria; they should follow the logic of the single market, i.e. they should prevent discrimination. second, they should be simple and clear so that they can be easily applied. thirdly, they should not lead to drastic violations of the level of budget revenues in individual countries. fourthly, they should also meet certain health policy standards, if such policies are in place in the individual countries. the rapporteur considers that the commission's proposals are in line with these criteria and i therefore support these amendments in general, while the amendments we propose concern mainly the linguistic corrections and the better wording of the various provisions, the use of more precise terms, and we also propose that the administrative authorities of the individual member states should be required to prove whether goods are intended for commercial use when implementing these provisions. in the past, this has been too often the responsibility of travellers and we believe that this is incompatible with the rules of the common market. in general, the amendments which are applied are amendments which merely put the text in order and, in a sense, clarify it further, whereas all the commission proposals are supported.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. one of the most important objectives of the state and the public health service is to protect the health of its citizens. cooperation in this field, especially within european countries, should theoretically create more treatment opportunities, not only while travelling within the union, but also when travelling to other centres where medical care cannot be obtained in one's own country. however, the problem of mobility poses many threats, mainly because of the economic and systemic differences between the old, rich member states of the european union and the new ones, which have not been able to develop until now because of the domination of totalitarian soviet power. while the citizens of the old 15 are mainly moving because of the queues or in search of cheaper services, the citizens of the newly admitted countries are deprived of medical care in general, mainly because of the mass outflow of skilled workers and migration to the rich countries - well-educated medical and nursing personnel - which was rightly noted in the report of the lord bowis, describing it as a "brain drain", and which poses a huge danger to the health of poor citizens. in addition, the prevailing liberal tendencies, especially the treatment of healthcare in service and market terms and the difficulty of obtaining specialization, various economic programs advocating the reduction of employment are damaging health systems, driving the economy only to private medical centers, which does not solve the growing problems in health care, does not create jobs, and as a result, affects the increase in health care costs and the deterioration of the health of citizens.
ladies and gentlemen! despite the strong rejection of the draft constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands - a clear indication of mistrust of national and european political elites - we are surprised to see some attempts to revive the document. there is talk of continuing the ratification process, renegotiating the draft treaty, or even seeking legal solutions to annul the results of the referendums. such actions are undemocratic and arrogant, and they are a form of totalitarianism. the political elites should realize that most of the nations of europe oppose the organization of a bureaucratic "super state" run from brussels, monopolizing social, economic and monetary policy. they want democratic participation in decision-making and european integration based on the free cooperation of free states. heads of state and government who do not respect the sovereign will of the people can be seen as dictators by their own people and treated as such.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. ratification is a permanent process, ratification is the right and the duty of every state, and therefore this process cannot be stopped just because two states have said "no". i would like to appeal to the colleagues who have called today for the suspension of ratification to respect democracy and the sovereign right of each country to decide on this matter. i live in poland and i want to speak out on this issue. i want to speak about the constitution and please don't take away my right, please don't tell me that france and holland have already decided for me, for the poles. that's not true, man. secondly, with respect to the results of the referendums in france and the netherlands, we in poland were very concerned about the tone and the course of the debate there. i'm not just talking about the presence of a legendary polish plumber. in listening to this debate, which was not so much about the european constitution, we asked ourselves a fundamental question: if such a referendum had been held before the last enlargement, would we - the new ten - have been members of the european union today? have we entered a union of solidarity or a union of closure and selfishness? i would like to hear the answers to these questions after the next summit, which i think will deal with this difficult situation.
mr. chairman, please! after the french and dutch referendums, we were inundated with a flood of analysis, interpretation and speculation. one of the most frequent is that the negative results are a protest by the citizens of these countries against the recent enlargement of the european union. they're sort of a punishment for what happened a year ago. the conclusion to be drawn from this is that the only way to stop further enlargement is to wait for the european union boa constrictor to swallow and digest the rabbit, which is the new member states. there are already voices, including in this chamber, questioning the decision to join bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007. the decision to open negotiations with turkey in october is openly questioned, and ukraine's european aspirations are put on hold. of course, no one can be prevented from expressing such opinions, but it would be a serious mistake to follow them up with restrictive policy decisions, for at least three reasons. firstly, we must not break the commitments we have made to ourselves and to the people of the countries applying for membership of the european union. the rules, i remind you, are to be followed not when they are convenient - when they are unnecessary - but when they are difficult to follow. second, each successive extension has always been an economic success. thirdly, the european union is not to be an elitist, closed club, but on the contrary an open space for democracy, respect for human rights, respect for minorities and peaceful means of resolving conflicts. for me, that last consideration is particularly important. this is not only the essence of the european community, but its mission. without this mission, not only will the constitutional treaty be dead, but the union itself.
president of the council. mr president, i would first like to thank all the members for their thoughts, advice and views. i would like to begin by congratulating parliament on its efforts. if there were a new vote on the constitution today, we would see that the constitution is not dead in this parliament, but is very much alive. that's the mission we all have. it is a very difficult task, but it is a task which we must carry out with determination, with tenacity. all those who have been members of the convention have been lulled into a kind of delusion because we really, honestly, sincerely believed that this convention was in direct, strong grip on our public opinions, on what our fellow citizens think, on what they want. we wanted to change the method of drafting a text, a treaty, and then, finally, a constitution. we must now realize that, while the convention has had enormous merits, it has not fully met these expectations and innovations. the first conclusion i would like to draw is that, in any case, the democratic debate which has been launched in europe, which was opened by this kind of crisis, the importance of which must not be exaggerated now either, must continue. so, again, whether there is a pause or not - and this is an important question which i will pass on to the president of the european council, to whom i will also be the interpreter of the different sensitivities, the different analyses which have been expressed in your debate - the reflection which must be carried out cannot be confined to the chancelleries alone. this is not the way out of the present crisis. pause or no pause, we must not add confusion to the present, very real, disorder. we must decide clearly, we must tell the people, with the people, what way out we have and think is the best. i agree that it is up to each sovereign nation - and as a luxembourg i feel directly concerned since our referendum will take place very soon, on 10 july - to decide whether it wants to continue as if nothing had happened immediately, without waiting. it's an option. maybe we should just keep going. in any case, when we make a decision, we should make it clearly and not in confusion. the democratic debate must be extended to our countries, to our parliaments; it is a matter of putting our energies to work, with the social partners: we must make up for the time we have lost for so long. there must be a european debate on the national debates. i don't know the magic formula today, but it's the only way to come out of this as a grown-up, stronger person. i fully agree with the president of the commission when he says that we must seek a new political consensus, especially here in this parliament, but also in our member states. europe must be a challenge, but it must also be the subject of a fundamental consensus among all democrats, among all those who think that europe is the solution and not the problem. we must therefore first agree on the essentials and then open, launch and complete the political debate on this or that direction. i believe, mr president, that when you go to the european council you will be heard because you have had a very useful debate. i believe your message will help inform those who have to make a decision next week. i thank you again: you may not have provided the solution yet, but you may have shown the way to a solution. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating parliament. i think we have had a very serious debate. i understood that, starting from different positions, there was nevertheless an effort of intellectual honesty to recognize that there is a problem and to analyze it in a serious, responsible way. at the end of this debate, however, it is equally clear that there is no magic solution and that we all recognise the extreme complexity of the problem. if the situation is complex, if the situation is difficult, we have to accept a truth, handed down by political science since antiquity: it is prudence. i know that today we live in a society where - because of the media - we are subject to the dictatorship of the news and the urgency. however, we are politicians, we are responsible politicians and we must be careful: that too is a great political virtue. that is why we must perhaps give ourselves the time and the conditions for a good analysis, a thorough analysis, a good debate and a collective solution. i believe, however, that it is possible to draw certain conclusions from today's debate. i have noted - and this has just been underlined in the conclusions drawn by the president-in-office of the council - the favourable reception given to the idea of a more intensive dialogue within the european framework, within the national framework, a dialogue that goes beyond the political institutions. if we can agree on this principle, it is an important idea, the idea that europe does not ignore the negative result in two countries as important as france and the netherlands, that europe is listening, that the institutions, that the politicians are listening and that they want to understand what is happening and want to respond with solutions. i think that on this point there was, on balance, a fairly general agreement in favour of this idea. i am also in favour of the recognition - and i think we can say that there is agreement on this too - of the shared responsibility of all the actors and the need to work together in the search for a new consensus to move europe forward. because there is a third idea, which i think is more or less the consensus: avoid paralysis. we have an institutional problem. but no one has defended the paralysis of the european project, no one has said that because of this europe is going to stop, that we are not going to advance the programmes which are of interest to the people, the citizens, in terms of growth, employment, the fight against insecurity, the fight against crime. we have to move on. citizens expect concrete answers, beyond the institutional debate and the constitutional discussions. so if we accept this, if we accept the idea of rejecting the paralysis of europe, if we accept the idea of a real european debate, the idea of recognising the shared responsibility for a new consensus in europe, we have the right to expect that the european council will be able to find this new dynamic consensus, with, also, the reaffirmed will to advance our common cause, but also that - apart from the new vision for europe, which we need - concrete answers to concrete problems are needed. what is the first concrete problem we face? the european budget, the need to reach a consensus, in a spirit of compromise, on the financial perspective: i believe that this would be a very powerful signal that the european council could send to all europeans, a signal that europe is not stopping! there are difficulties, but i repeat, we are capable of overcoming them.
i'm closing the debate. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
in writing. the moraes report on minority protection contains, in its final version, provisions aimed at a very risky treatment of the rights of sexual minorities. the risk is that they are understood too broadly, because of the overly broad concepts used in the report. the wording of article 24 calling on the commission to remove obstacles to freedom of travel within the eu by means of marriage or legal same-sex unions may become the basis for the recognition of selected legal consequences of homosexual unions, which are legally recognised only by some eu countries. this would lead to unjustified interference in the family law system of some eu countries, which is unacceptable given the fact that this area of law is outside the area of integration. article 22 may be used to restrict the religious rights of educational institutions by imposing an obligation on them to employ homosexuals and to include such content in sex education curricula. this may be contrary to the ethos of these institutions, as well as their beliefs and mission (an example of a directive that omits this aspect is the equal treatment in employment and occupation directive (2000/87/ec)). despite the insistence, parliament did not introduce a provision emphasizing "the right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own religious convictions". this formulation of parental rights is a widely accepted standard of international law. in view of the above decisions of parliament, i have decided to vote against the report and resolution.
in writing. the wording of article 24 calling on the commission to remove obstacles to freedom of travel within the eu by means of marriage or legal same-sex unions may become the basis for the recognition of selected legal consequences of homosexual unions, which are legally recognised only by some eu countries. this would lead to unjustified interference in the family law system of some eu countries, which is unacceptable given the fact that this area of law is outside the area of integration. article 22 may be used to restrict the religious rights of educational institutions by imposing an obligation on them to employ homosexuals and to include such content in sex education curricula. this may be contrary to the ethos of these institutions as well as their beliefs and mission (an example of a directive that omits this aspect is the equal treatment in employment and occupation directive (2000/87/ec)). despite the insistence, parliament did not introduce a provision emphasizing "the right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own religious convictions". this formulation of parental rights is a widely accepted standard of international law. in view of the above decisions of parliament, i have decided to vote against the report and resolution.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union's relations with the united states should be based primarily on healthy economic competition, and economic competition will be effective for the european union if the european economy is not hampered by various social, statistical and fiscal ideas. our cooperation with the united states will also be effective if it is based on a friendly foreign policy. the united states plays the role of stabilizer in world politics. without the united states, the world would be one big battlefield. the anti-americanism that is particularly prevalent in french politics is not conducive to europe's friendly relations with the united states. two years ago, when president chirac addressed those countries that supported the american intervention in iraq, saying to them, "you have lost the opportunity to sit quietly". today, when president chirac and his predecessor, president gistard d'estaing, have plunged europe into serious confusion by prematurely endorsing the constitution, and thus have given a vision of a future common european policy, we can say to the president of france: "you have lost the opportunity to sit quietly". - you have lost your chance to laugh!
mr. chairman, please! the recent 60th anniversary of the end of world war ii reminded us of the historic importance of the united states' aid, without which economically and militarily weak europe would not have been able to win the war against the nazis or to resist at least part of the communist dictatorship. without military and political cooperation with the united states, the union is not able to guarantee its security today. the excellent examples of the joining of forces we have seen in the 1990s in iraq, bosnia and kosovo, and more recently in afghanistan, point to the future path that our military and political cooperation should follow. its importance is clearly visible in central and eastern europe. nato enlargement shows that it is seen as a reliable partner. the sense of security is particularly important for countries with such strong negative historical experiences as estonia, lithuania, latvia and poland, which lost their sovereignty for many decades because they had no partner who would not hesitate to fulfil their alliance obligations. economic cooperation is, of course, an integral part of harmonious political cooperation. it is in europe's vital interest to prevent an economic war with the united states. we are the world's largest trading partner today. this should be the direction supported by the european parliament before the june summit. let's signal that we base our policies on partners who are trustworthy and whose values are aligned with ours.
mr. chairman, please! i will not talk about illiteracy in the united states, as mr. kohlíček, and about the fact that blacks are beaten in america. i wanted to say that europe and america are one family. there are many differences in the family, but the family should be united. we may have, and we have a difference of opinion on iraq, but strategically we are allies. it's not in europe's interest to have anti-american hysteria, it's not in the us's interest to treat europe like a little brother. we have two common tasks today: the fight against terrorism, first, and the peaceful settlement of the middle east conflict, second. we must remember that in the shadow of this bizarre rivalry between america and europe, there is a growing asian power, both political and economic. let us draw the following conclusions: instead of economic warfare, which is pointless, we need closer cooperation, and even if we have legitimate pretensions to the economic perfectionism of the united states, we should be more flexible in economic matters. let us always remember that our conflict is the greatest joy of other continents. i think the new members of the union, including my country, poland, understand this.
mr president, we are witnessing a real improvement in the climate of cooperation between europe and america - this is good news for america's friends in europe; may there be more of this news. we have to break through more barriers. one of the biggest barriers today is the existence of restrictions on entry into the united states for citizens of certain european countries, visa restrictions. in europe, these practices are considered discriminatory, especially since they introduce inequality between the member states of the european union. and i'm talking specifically about the public opinion from countries like my country, poland, and other countries in central europe, whose citizens still need visas to enter the united states. please also bear in mind that the changes we have recently introduced to the visa reciprocity mechanism bring the visa policy of the european union into common ground. it is now the commission, not the member states or the council, which decides on the application of sanctions to a third country. the commission therefore has a duty to ensure that all citizens and all countries of the european union are treated equally. i hope this will be a topic at the next summit. the second is the need for the european union and the united states to work together to promote democracy and human rights. this is particularly true of the post-soviet area. europe and america must speak with one voice here, as they did during the orange revolution or during the recent declarations of condoleezza rice and javier solana in support of the belarusian opposition. it's not enough to talk. we still have to work together. europe is lagging behind america in this respect. we do not have the flexibility of the americans here, we are too slow, too bureaucratic - that is how the commission works in particular. i think that attention should be paid to the fact that the european union and the united states speak with one voice and act together in promoting democracy and human rights.
mr. chairman, please! one of the most important areas of the transatlantic relationship is the european union's engagement with the united states to promote democracy and human rights worldwide. in the context of the new wave of democracy in eastern europe, the middle east, the caucasus, central asia and africa, there is a need to coordinate eu-us efforts to promote democratic values, monitor free elections, develop political parties and trade unions, independent civil society organisations and media freedom. in the new global era, a new vision of international political order based on democracy and human rights is needed. the united states and the european union cannot allow a situation to recur where genocide or ethnic cleansing is being perpetrated in full view of the world. to this end, a new agreement is needed which should lead to closer cooperation between the european union and the united states for freedom, peace and security and, where necessary, to joint preventive action to avoid a humanitarian or environmental disaster.
president of the council. mr president, the debate has shown that there are many challenges that the united states and the european union must face together and in solidarity. we also know that the definition of better coordinated positions still poses many problems. they've been mentioned. we are still very far apart on global warming and we know that without the united states we cannot foresee a follow-up to the kyoto agreement. so there is something to be said about the americans finally joining this multilateral approach to global warming. reform of the un system is another problem, a difficult one, and there will be no real reform of the un system without american support. in terms of development policy - this was said in part in relation to the bretton woods institutions - the americans, together with the europeans, can really change course in the direction of the millennium development goals to create a new dynamic. there is still much work to be done in all these areas. on the other hand, we have made considerable progress in managing the major crises, the major international problems: the middle east, iran, sudan. all this progress, for which europe and the united states have acted together, have acted to find solutions. i also take note of the remark made by several of you that we may nevertheless have to think about developing the framework for transatlantic relations. it is a little strange that two partners who are so close in principle, do not have a framework, but actually base their relations, their cooperation, on a simple declaration. is it because they're such close partners? maybe that's the question we need to look into. but i think that in the years to come we must seriously ask ourselves whether it is not time to give the transatlantic relations a more defined, more precise framework. in any case, it is clear from your discussions that the next summit is an important meeting, one which must consolidate the progress made, which must continue to advance our relations in areas where we have not yet succeeded in finding common ground, and which must also consolidate the improvement in transatlantic relations which we have seen since the beginning of the year. the luxembourg presidency attaches great importance to this and we want this summit to be a success, a success for europe. this is important because europe must also show the americans that it is still capable of acting, that internal problems do not compromise its ability to act externally.
member of the commission. mr president, as i have said before, there is a reinvigorated willingness to strengthen eu-us relations. this stems from both sides of the atlantic. in the political field we have seen cooperation on issues dealing with iraq, iran, sudan, the southern caucasus, central asia and belarus, not to mention the broader middle east and the mediterranean. on the economic front, much is in place already, but clearly more can be done and we are working together to move in that direction. it is true that difficulties arise in the field of trade, but it is also true that our difficulties can hopefully be solved more frequently through dialogue. with regard to the boeing-airbus issue, it is unfortunate that last week the united states decided to leave the negotiating table and request a formal dispute settlement procedure in the wto in respect of alleged subsidies provided to airbus. in turn, we decided to resume action in the wto on the subsidies given to boeing. commissioner mandelson’s preferred solution since he took up office last november has been to settle the dispute through negotiations. a negotiated solution may still eventually be reached following the wto rulings, but at this point in time the commission has to protect the interests of airbus against boeing. despite the regrettable escalation of this dispute, i am confident that recent developments will not affect our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. on the issue of security measures, both the eu and the us have taken many steps to increase security. however, we must try to minimise their impact on trade and travel by developing global security standards and enhancing our customs cooperation. at this point, i should like to thank mrs mann for her explicit support for the commission’s communication and the study on eu-us relations which we commissioned. on your repeated call for a transatlantic market to be completed by 2015, the commission very much shares the objective of further enhancing our already flourishing bilateral eu-us economic relationship. indeed, through the 1998 transatlantic economic partnership and the 2002 positive economic agenda, the commission has been pursuing the same goal, i.e. identifying and possibly eliminating obstacles, particularly in the field of regulations, and ensuring the smooth functioning of this relationship. equally, the recently published communication aims to boost eu-us trade and investment, and the creation of a regulatory cooperation forum foreseen by the communication would address regulatory obstacles. a transatlantic market is already an economic reality, while the elimination of obstacles to trade and investment is an incremental process and we are taking steps in that direction. on globalisation, we intend to commit ourselves to concluding the doha development round agenda within the next 12 months at the eu-us summit. on visas for the citizens of the ten member states not benefiting from the us visa-waiver programme, i can assure you that we are continuing to urge the us at all levels to recognise the new economic, social and political realities in the ten member states which acceded to the european union last year and which should be treated the same as the other member states. we welcome in this context the new us visa roadmap for poland and the planned extension to the other member states which joined at the last enlargement. this is an important step in the right direction. on climate change, we are negotiating with the us on an environment declaration. we would like to see a substantial commitment to working towards a long-term international regime on climate change post-2012. we will, therefore, be working to relaunch a high-level eu-us dialogue on the environment. with regard to your call for an eu-us partnership agreement, i acknowledge that we maintain treaty relations with the majority of third countries around the globe, yet have no such treaty with our most important partner. because we already have solid cooperation, we do not see a need for a transatlantic agreement that would involve long formal negotiations without changing much in substance. it needs also to be stressed that the transatlantic difficulties of the past were political and not institutional in nature. the elaboration and defence of consistent eu positions vis-à-vis the us do not depend on the existence of a treaty-based structure. that being said, there is a strong case for reviewing our existing structures and revamping and modernising the new transatlantic agenda of 1995 to adapt it to current needs. finally, and in conclusion, i should like to underline again that you are fundamental actors in this strategic alliance and we rely on your support to implement our common agenda. the communication encourages the setting up of a transatlantic assembly. such an assembly could be held in conjunction with the summit.
i have received five draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in uzbekistan.
president of the council. mr president, it is indeed important that this country, which has enormous resources, including gas, should not be destabilised. it's not in our best interest or anyone else's. we must admit that there are fundamentalist elements in this country and they must not be used as an excuse to keep a lid on the uzbek people, because that is what is happening. the regime of president karimov uses this specter, this more or less real threat of fundamentalists to maintain its oppressive regime over the uzbek people. i think that we really must continue to put pressure on the uzbek government and on president karimov. we must press him to accept an international inquiry and, clearly, show our solidarity. in this regard, the resolution you are about to make is important. it must be made clear that the european union does not accept the attitudes and policies of the past few weeks. this solidarity is not an instrument for destabilisation, it must be an instrument for stabilising this country in order to promote democracy, because that is our objective. i think that all the other pretexts, however serious they may be, such as the question of fundamentalism, cannot prevent us from exerting strong pressure on this regime, which is one of the most dictatorial regimes in the whole region.
member of the commission. mr president, we need to remain engaged with the uzbek authorities if we are to seek reforms in the areas of human rights and democracy. the commission also remains active in the humanitarian situation. we are in close contact with the unhcr in order to have an assessment of the situation with those who have fled to the border area. echo is monitoring the situation on the ground and, should the need arise, the commission would be able to quickly mobilise humanitarian assistance. as i said in my introductory remarks, we believe that we must remain engaged with tacis programmes, which deal essentially with democratic and economic reforms, these being at the root of the problems that have arisen. the commission has already allocated eur 3 million of assistance to the uzbek enclaves in kyrgyz territory for poverty reduction, cross-border cooperation and avoidance of an escalation of tension in this volatile area. we will keep up the pressure on the uzbek authorities to institute necessary reforms and establish a democratic society. we will continue to call for an international inquiry into recent events and to press president karimov to reconsider his position. on the issue of the partnership and cooperation agreement, it is our belief that any suspension of this agreement would only serve to cut off the institutional contacts with the authorities. whilst we are convinced of the need to keep up the pressure on the uzbek authorities to allow an international investigation and to take real and concrete action in the field of human rights and democracy, we believe that we must remain engaged in a channel of communication in order to remedy the situation effectively.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral questions by mr staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, to the council and the commission on cooperation within the budgetary authority involving and the use of cash payments made as a result of the agreement between the commission, the member states and philip morris on combating fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
member of the commission. mr president, this is a complex and important question. we have been engaged in negotiations with the member states in an attempt to reach an agreement. once again i would like to thank the house for its support of our position. you have specifically requested that the funds allocated under the agreement should be focused on anti-fraud programmes. you are well aware, as i said in my previous remarks, that these are extra-budgetary funds. the focus of our efforts at this point remains the conclusion of an agreement on how the funds are allocated, not only between the commission and the member states, but also among the member states themselves. the negotiations have been and continue to be difficult, but i am confident that we can resolve the issue in the short term. as to the programmes to which the funds are to be allocated, the commission has taken note of the relevant proposal, which will doubtless be considered in due course, once we have reached an agreement on the distribution of the funds. that agreement should then serve to provide the allocation scale for any future similar agreements.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.10 p.m. and resumed at 6.15 p.m.)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was pleased to hear what mrs vlasto said and what commissioner verheugen said, but i cannot refer to what was said here, i must refer to what is written here. i regret to say that this report has nothing to do with recommending healthy competitiveness, which is the pillar of the free economy. unfortunately, this report is very much contaminated by the ideology of interventionism. the first paragraph reads: 'the commission welcomes the inclusion of industrial policy in the priorities of community policy'. ladies and gentlemen, in a free economy there are no priorities, in a free economy everything is needed, what society needs, and what society needs is indicated by the free market. if we talk about priorities in the economy, we neglect the whole economy. the second paragraph reads: 'we must promote an industrial policy based on the principle of voluntariness'. i'm sorry, but if we have to say that something is going to be based on a voluntary economy, then i have to say that we've gone very wrong in the wrong direction, which means that we've come to recognize that economics has little to do with freedom, and that a free economy is the foundation of success. the fifth point reads: 'social dialogue should determine which sectors are the most productive'. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter for social dialogue - whether something is efficient or not is decided by those who run companies according to the sound principles of the free market. then, in paragraph 6, we read: "women should be encouraged to work in industry". ladies and gentlemen, this is a deep-seated feminist contamination. women don't have to be encouraged to work in industry, they'll work wherever they want. i don't see any reason for women to work with jackhammers. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to be competitive and successful. 130 years ago, the prime minister of england, then the world's fastest-growing nation, said: "the job of economists is to make sure that government does not harm the economy". i do not expect the european commission to follow these guidelines, but i would urge it to at least take them into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house! i would like to stress that the slogan 'strengthening european competitiveness' has survived for many years. it's time to show that this goal of the global economy is very difficult, but it's absolutely necessary. the conclusions are that, first of all, all the themes and projects undertaken must have a precise, detailed path and timetable. in view of the limited budgetary resources, objectives and priorities must be set on which to focus, e.g. the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in a global economy, while respecting environmental and occupational safety conditions. research and training programmes should be given particular priority in the areas of new technologies and new generations of products and services, productivity and savings, and the availability of research results to small and medium-sized enterprises.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the considerations in mrs vlasto's report are mature and balanced. they represent a stage in the debate on european industrial policy. europe is in crisis over this policy, and citizens are expressing their irrational fears and frustrations, for example, in the referendums in france and the netherlands. the fact is that relocation, while seemingly economically justified, is undoubtedly socially harmful. however, when it comes to delocalisation, it is important to emphasise that it is a heterogeneous concept, with regard to both beneficial - due to the positive synergy - intra-eu delocalisation and harmful external delocalisation. a homogeneous market for goods and services with a high degree of global competitiveness and innovation should be created. there are two groups of mechanisms for increasing competitiveness: the simple ones limiting the achievements of the so-called european social model, and the complex ones based on intellectual and social capital, which are the basis for organisational, technological, technical and market innovation. europe, like japan and europe in the late 1960s, should resort to relocation, i.e. the return of modern manufacturing and capital to the european common market. this is necessary to protect intellectual property and restore european leadership in know-how, create jobs and increase the competitiveness of european capital. all of this is possible, but first europe must break out of stagnation and its gdp should grow at least several times. the tools that would undoubtedly help trigger the relocation process could include - contrary to the frustrations and fears of the proverbial polish plumber and bricklayer - full liberalisation of commercial services, as the polish socialists argue, the creation of industrial clusters around the innovation centre, the introduction of european rules for all public procurement, which would require the preparation of an appropriate eu directive.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. thank you for your report, madam rapporteur. this report is important to me because i was an entrepreneur myself for many years in the sme sector. the experience i have gained allows me to look at european competitiveness and the sme sector from a practical perspective. i believe that the european economy is in dire need of genuine competition and of building economic awareness among the citizens of europe. the first of these tasks was written in the lisbon strategy as one of the most important objectives aimed, among other things, at closing the economic gap between the old and the new europe. companies from the new countries, and in particular their sme sectors, with their flexibility and ability to adapt to changing conditions, represent an opportunity for europe's economic development. however, to do so, it is necessary to remove existing barriers to the internal market (there are currently around 90), create better conditions to encourage the creation of new firms in the sme sector, link the wage system to productivity and work efficiency. i believe that creating a favourable environment for the development of the sme sector, simplifying and creating new regulations will help to increase employment. the liberalisation of the services market is another step towards europe's economic development and the creation of new jobs. i also see the need to build economic awareness among european citizens, because only then will we be able to understand the economic mechanisms that affect our lives, stop being afraid of change, and understand that these changes are necessary and necessary to improve the quality of our lives. the competitiveness of the european economy can only be strengthened by developing a knowledge-based economy, i.e. investing in research, development and innovation in close cooperation with business, because only this will translate into the development of smes. this includes the need to develop education and training systems that reflect the needs of the labour market and to promote lifelong learning in societies. this report can be a very important element in the economic development of europe and in genuine free competition, which is why i support it and propose that the sme sector be recognised as the driving force of the economy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the house of lords! contrary to what might seem, today's debate on the report on social integration in the new member states does not depart from the pressing issues of the constitutional treaty and the budgetary perspective, which we have been discussing since the beginning of this session. understanding and seeking to solve the most difficult social problems in the member states would have taken away many of the arguments of those who voted against the treaty, because the issues of enlargement of the european union were misrepresented or misunderstood. the report by mrs őra therefore deals with problems whose solution has a direct bearing on the future of the european union. our debate on this and the majority we adopt in this report will be a testimony to our awareness that this is an important problem and that it is linked to the removal of the spectre of social dumping in the european union. it also underlines that competitiveness and social cohesion in the lisbon strategy perspective are not contradictory but complementary. that is why we in the committee on employment and social affairs have stressed the importance of economic development in enabling social integration. the commissioner has just emphasized this aspect of our subject. on behalf of the alde group, i would like to congratulate mr őri on the way in which he has drafted this report. i am also pleased that the abovementioned committee on employment and social affairs adopted it by an overwhelming majority. perhaps there was a possibility of better combining the proposed amendments. it is also true that some of the amendments i tabled on behalf of alde were not taken into account. however, these were amendments which were more intended to improve the text than to introduce fundamental changes. the text we are debating today is a good text and my group will vote in favour of it.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we are talking about social integration, so we must be aware that some 150 million people in the community earn less than 75% of the eu average, two thirds of whom live in the new member states. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his fair presentation of this difficult problem. his solution is to radically reduce the areas of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion that often overlap and sometimes, i stress, take on a hereditary character. our strategies and debates will be worth anything if, first, they enable aid to reach those in need quickly, which is an important but urgent task and which requires the right money. secondly, they will eliminate or at least substantially reduce the most important source of social disintegration, namely poverty, which is a long-term action, and for which the economic activation of new regions is necessary, which will reduce the plague of unemployment. i would like to thank all those who are working in this direction throughout the union, and especially in the ten new member states. so i thank the local governments, the ngos, including caritas, and the social welfare agencies, and the philanthropists, for what they do. thank you to those who create jobs. let me just touch on two issues in detail: the first is family. the demographics are alarming. help for a family raising children is a necessity, not a favor. we need the right solutions. secondly, disabled people - more than 45% of them in the eu - should finally feel that they are full citizens of our union. finally, there is a moral dimension to the issues we are discussing. for how can the full understand the hungry? (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! this valuable report by mr öra draws attention to the continuing social disintegration in the new member states. our post-communist countries have experienced so many changes and transformations in a short time that it still makes me dizzy. the new situation quickly found itself in the hands of the recent communists, who, by stealing the national wealth, turned into businessmen or remained in politics. the worst of all are the weakest in the new reality, which are the entire social classes. workers lost their jobs, workers got into debt, lost their means of production and their markets. access to health care for everyone has deteriorated. the welfare state has resigned and citizens are left to fend for themselves overnight. the people of poland don't trust their own politicians enough. on the contrary, they place their trust and high hopes in the union. to achieve the ambitious goals of social inclusion, job creation, entrepreneurship, more money is needed. at this strategic juncture in the debate on the union budget, the commission and the council should bear in mind that every euro invested in new countries is money left in the union's pocket and an investment in the union itself. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the report's author and the report itself have the merit of drawing attention to important issues and showing a great deal of sensitivity, whereas it is a complete misunderstanding that it is limited to the new accession countries - mr cabrnoch and mrs in't veld have said this - because the problems raised here concern the whole of the union. i will give you an example from my country, poland: in poland, more than 60% of judges are women; after all, this is a profession with great social prestige, so how can we talk about exclusion here? similarly, over 60% of doctors are women, and the highest number of women in business leadership in europe is in poland, so what is the division between new and old member states? i would also like to point out that it would be unthinkable for poland, or for many other countries of new accession, to have what happened a few days ago in france - that perpignan has become a battleground between arabs and gypsies - as i believe, as a result of social exclusion. the same acts of anti-semitism that regularly occur in france and germany would be unthinkable in the new accession countries. what are the grounds for disfellowshipping? the main causes of exclusion are the destruction of the social fabric, including the weakening of the role of religion. the role of religion, the catholic church and other faiths is enormous in building the social fabric and countering social exclusion. and the best example of this is my country, which has one of the lowest divorce rates in europe and one of the lowest suicide rates. this shows that social exclusion is not a big social problem there. the state is taking on too many responsibilities today that it cannot meet. if this report says that the state should create non-governmental organizations, religious associations and churches to combat social exclusion, then we must be clear: the state cannot order this, the state should not interfere. the last point i want to make is that the report uses the unfortunate term 'social dumping' which has replaced the term 'healthy competition' in today's language, and i cannot agree with that term.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking today about a very important issue, which, to varying degrees, of course, concerns all the countries of the european union, not just the old ones. however, while the degree of social integration in western european countries is well recognised, the scale of this phenomenon is still too easily underestimated in the new countries, and there are too few instruments that can really measure it rationally and objectively. part of this, of course, is the legacy of communism, a system that tried to decree the absence of social problems and the temporal happiness of all citizens, and the effects of that communism, that ideology, we still struggle with today, with similar degrees of social problems and similar levels of unemployment in all the countries that have experienced this system. the fight against poverty and social exclusion has not yet been given a serious and complementary agenda in our countries. it is too often like the chaotic scramble of public services in response to emerging problems, usually already very large. there are many reasons for this. even if we exclude those groups that are excluded from society for non-economic reasons, the main problem is still that unemployment is too high and therefore the cause is deeply economic. in poland, it affects several tens of percent of the population. it often leads to self-isolation, and in this way contributes to the rapid development of the most serious social disease of our time, namely helplessness and passivity in the face of the simplest problems of life, and this is always followed by a state of dependence in the broadest sense, whether it is public assistance, assistance from others, or even drug and alcohol addiction. it is clear that the governments of the member states can and must be called upon to accelerate the process of social integration and to create instruments to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups. but we realize that most of these activities involve considerable financial expenditures, and we can share only what we have, not what we would like to have. so, to be able to speak of a proper process of social integration, we must first of all talk about how to improve economic growth in the new member states so that it creates jobs and, through jobs and through earnings, better and more effectively combat social problems and poverty. it is difficult to rely solely on social funds, public funds, social assistance. i therefore welcome the commission's assurance of closer cooperation in the fight against social exclusion. at the same time, i would like to encourage the commission to continue its consistent fight for further liberalisation of the services market, which will bring economic growth and therefore less social problems to europe as a whole, both the old and the new member states. only then can we hope to combat effectively a problem which threatens the whole of europe - and i want to stress this - the whole of europe.
author. the problem of press freedom in algeria is not a new phenomenon. since the early 1990s, journalists and intellectuals in algeria have been subjected to constant pressure, attacks and arrests. suffice it to say that during the civil war in the 1990s, about 60 journalists were murdered. the main problem and threat that the international community must address today is that the algerian public authorities do not even hide their aversion to the private press. frequent repressions against certain algerian newspapers are commonplace. censorship is official and the state is the sole owner of the printing presses, to which publishers are constantly indebted, which increases the state control over both the press and the entire media market. the situation of journalists and their work in such conditions is extremely difficult - they have no official status, no employment contract or regular salary, and the journalists' trade union is practically in its embryonic stage. many journalists are currently facing trial, and many have already been sentenced to prison. in such circumstances, it is easy for the authorities to pressure, control and restrict the freedom of the press, which is an important source of information and an instrument for shaping public opinion. in the name of democracy and respect for fundamental civil liberties, decisive action must be taken in algeria, a country neighbouring the european union, to strengthen the position of independent media and to develop pluralistic, diversified information. i would like to call for the demands of press freedom, the strengthening of democracy and respect for human rights in algeria to be given priority in the implementation of the european union's neighbourhood policy with the mediterranean area.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. the violation of human rights and democracy this time concerns azerbaijan - another soviet republic fighting for independence alongside georgia and ukraine. at least several dozen protesters were arrested during the recent demonstration in baku, demanding democratic reforms in the country. already, after the rigged presidential elections in 2003, more than a hundred people were in prison for expressing their political views and resisting the authorities. the wave of violence by the authorities has affected many opposition activists, journalists, teachers and random people. azerbaijan is a typical example of a sham transformation, with a declared democracy as a facade behind which the totalitarian leaders of the communist party have exchanged party books for checkbooks, enriching themselves at the expense of society, manipulating people who are deprived not only of rights but also of material goods. the perverted notion of freedom as unlimited freedom and arbitrariness continues to threaten democracy and free societies, as john paul ii reminded us. in advocating justice and truth, we support the opposition's demands to respect the principles of democracy, freedom of speech and to stop intimidation and violence and to punish the perpetrators of the murders of opposition members huseynov and djalilov, who died in unexplained circumstances.
mr president, georgia, ukraine, kyrgyzstan, or is azerbaijan going to be next? i hope so! the situation in this country is serious. seven years ago, the second leader of the democratic opposition died under mysterious circumstances. even such tragedies and other repressions, such as the arrest of 29 opposition activists in mid-may, cannot and will not change the course of history. and that's what the 70,000 people who demonstrated in baku last saturday knew. the struggle for democracy is also a struggle for stability in azerbaijan, and this is very much needed in this country. to put it bluntly, it is a major oil producing center in the caspian region, especially after the opening of the $4 billion baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline in turkey, which will reduce the west's dependence on middle eastern oil, with a target of pumping one million barrels of oil a day. the leader of the opposition party musawat said after the last demonstration five days ago, "we deserve democracy and we will have it". he told the truth. let us, as the european parliament, help to make this truth a reality. (laughter)
madam president! the failure of the last european summit has brought the european union to a crossroads. whatever the cause, this crisis should not make anyone happy. the polish delegation to the union for a europe of nations' dislike of the european treaty does not mean dislike of the union. the european union is a good that we should all care about. nor should anyone be quick to judge. but it is hard to resist the impression that after years of debate between the former member states on whether to choose structural reforms and efficiency gains or regulations in the name of social solidarity, the union has now come to say that it wants neither efficiency nor solidarity. but no one is saying that the recent enlargement of the union is the cause of the crisis. let no one blame the new member states or the 150 polish plumbers in france who are unable to meet the shortage of skilled workers in this field. the problems with the new financial perspective are not simply a dispute over money. debates on the future of the union based on outdated ideological slogans, such as 'liberalism' or 'social model', will no longer be able to achieve anything. you can't create jobs without growth. the eu economies are generally overregulated and unemployment is not falling. if we want to avoid a deepening of the crisis, we must develop a strategy that will create more jobs, but by increasing efficiency, competitiveness and income. there is also the second dimension of the crisis: the failure of the constitutional treaty. if its creators wanted to give the citizens of the union a say, they had succeeded. it is just that the citizens of the union have spoken with a national voice and have voted against federalisation of the union. the eu project must therefore be thoroughly thought through, and it must be repaired from the bottom up. forcing people to be happy by the all-seeing elite always proves counterproductive. and the last thing is the common foreign policy. there are, of course, different priorities on this issue. i say this in the context of president juncker's remarks that the union's relations with russia have improved. is it not because of the union's indifference to russian insolence towards poland and the new member states? if a common foreign policy is to make practical sense, it should not seek to maximise the interests of individual countries but to ensure a minimum of security for all members.
mr. chairman, please! the results of last week's european council were undoubtedly a reflection of the luxembourg presidency's six months in office. much has been said about the reasons for its failure, and i personally fully share the assessment made by president barroso at the beginning of the debate. especially when he talked about why he didn't compromise on the budget. i do not share the view that we are facing a permanent crisis in the european union and i am convinced that the impasse over eu spending will soon be broken. i would like to stress, however, that this must be done without prejudice to the new member states. the european solidarity must not become the victim of conflicts within the old 15. we will never achieve the dynamic development of the european economy if almost a quarter of the eu population lacks strong support in overcoming the effects of europe's political and economic division in the coming years. the effects of this division imposed on the peoples of central and eastern europe can only be overcome by the joint efforts of the union as a whole. it is in the vital interest of the rich countries to invest in the accelerated development of the new member states. a strong cohesion policy and the free flow of services are the best means of achieving this. as a member of the parliament's committee on constitutional affairs, i would like at the same time to express my appreciation to the luxembourg presidency for introducing the so-called reflection period into the debate on the constitutional treaty. this is a very prudent move, and one that is essential to the health of european democracy. disregarding the results of the french and dutch referendums would have to lead to a deepening of the distance between european elites and european citizens. those who urged the ratification process to continue unthinkingly as if nothing had happened would have achieved the opposite of the intended effect. it would be to lose, perhaps for many years, the chance of obtaining a genuine democratic legitimacy for the european project. i am convinced that the luxembourg presidency has, by taking its foot off the gas, taken the union out of a dangerous spiral. and for that, i would like to thank, first of all, prime minister juncker and minister schmidt.
mr. chairman, please! i was surprised to read in an english newspaper that a group of several hundred nazi war criminals from world war ii were living and working in britain. among them are 75 guards of the auschwitz-birkenau concentration camp who were never tried. i remind you that auschwitz-birkenau was the most terrible concentration camp, a factory of death. these facts are outrageous, especially since of the eight thousand crew, only 700 guards have been brought to justice, mostly in poland. that's less than 10%. i appeal to my fellow members of parliament, to the british government and to all people of conscience: let us not forget the crimes, let us not turn our backs on the victims and let us not side with the executioners. the fact that the murderers of auschwitz-birkenau are being tolerated and tolerated in one of the member states of the european union is an affront to the dignity of europeans and deserves to be condemned. i therefore ask the president of the european parliament to have the british government respond and clarify the matter as soon as possible.
i wanted to protest in the european parliament against the stigmatization of poles and poland, which can be a model of multicultural coexistence of numerous national minorities with the polish people. the latest report of the european commission against racism and intolerance accuses poland of virtual anti-semitism and discrimination against roma. the report condemns the national movements, especially radio maria, which tries to present an objective and unbiased picture of reality. anti-semitism has always been alien to the christian attitude of poles, while german nazis and soviet totalitarianism caused millions of people physical and moral damage, for which after regaining independence they try to blame poles. even the polish jewish diaspora opposes the report's accusations of anti-semitism, which omits the overt manifestations of anti-polishism, especially in the media bought by foreign capital. we therefore demand that the offences be corrected and redressed.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the work on this report was a pleasure, because of the good cooperation with both the two opinion committees, i.e. itre and libe, as well as with the vast majority of political groups, i would like to mention the socialists, the liberals, the european people's party, the greens and the uen, and because of the very substantial contribution from the commission. according to the european security strategy, our security is now subject to many new threats, many new challenges. the most significant are the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, but also the spread of international terrorism. the fact that the terrorism that we were used to in the 1970s and 1960s in europe has been replaced by a new terrorism that is much more far-reaching, much more lethal, much more dangerous. this means that without advanced technological tools, it is difficult to ensure the safety of our citizens today. it is also difficult to give credibility to our security and defence policy. the european union currently spends four times less on defence investment than the united states. research and development costs are five times less. and that's why our countries are not able to close the technological gap between the defense and security capabilities of the united states and us here in europe. in response to this need for more effective safety research, the commission has therefore proposed a european safety research programme under the seventh framework programme, which is due to start in two years' time. this programme will focus on research projects that enhance our technological capabilities, based on a coherent, flexible and coordinated approach. there is currently a lack of a coherent approach to safety research at the highest level of the union, resulting in a high level of fragmentation and lack of cooperation between member states. this also results in low cost-effectiveness of these studies. therefore, the creation of common frameworks and structures at european level by establishing a european security research programme will allow for interoperability on the one hand and cost optimisation on the other. this programme envisages the exploitation of the synergy between the military research sector and the civil research area. it can therefore be expected that the programme will promote the integration of these two sectors. moreover, the adoption by the european parliament of this programme, whose annual budget is proposed at the level of one billion euros in addition to the funds already allocated to research in this field by the individual member states, should reduce the differences between our european countries and the united states. thus, strengthening the research base and the innovation of solutions will stimulate increased competitiveness in europe. we can count on this programme to be an opportunity for our european industry, but also for our research centres, both academic and non-academic, civil and military. it will certainly make it possible to better protect the external borders and modernise the armed forces of the member states of the european union. the report shall identify priority areas of interest. i'll just tell you a few. first, the so-called c4isr kit, which is the command, communications, guidance, intelligence, reconnaissance and reconnaissance systems. but also research in biotechnology, space technology and information systems. the report also encourages the commission to support research in the social sciences, without which it is impossible to imagine a good preparation for research on modern technologies. i am pleased to say that this is the essential contribution that our parliament seems to be making to the commission's proposal - if we are talking about advanced technological research, we must first concentrate on the background. as defence matters are at the top of the political agenda, it therefore seems that this programme will help to raise the level of security and facilitate the realisation of our eu aspirations. i therefore strongly recommend, mr president, that the european parliament adopt this report.
mr. chairman, please! the development of information technology broke the monopoly of communist censorship in the 1980s and helped democratize our part of europe. today we must move on. developing an information society is another challenge to use technology and communication to effectively implement human rights standards at international, national, regional levels. we need to put the emphasis on education in building an information society, in addition, of course, to supporting and building basic infrastructure. first, basic education, so that no one feels excluded by technological progress. second, education that focuses on the content of the message, so that young people can use all media in a critical and creative way. the information society means free and unfettered access to technology and information, which is why i believe that software patenting is the death knell for the information society. and yet, grim dictatorships still find ways to block access to information. they're afraid of some thoughts that aren't new. cuba has introduced a law that allows internet access only in select businesses and government offices, and also prohibits the general sale of computers. of the 100,000 computers in cuba, only 6,000 are connected to international networks, and they remain under full control. the belarusian government also understands the potential of the internet for the development of civil society and democracy. the state is doing everything it can to counter his growing popularity. a new law on mass media is being prepared. it provides, among other things, for mandatory registration and the need for online media publishers to obtain a so-called publishing license, which will indeed become a powerful instrument of censorship. a characteristic feature of the belarusian internet is also that there is only one state-owned provider in belarus. there are no alternative operators in the country that have access to external telecommunications channels. the ministry of communications in belarus requires that all modems used by internet users go through an authorization process. it costs 20 dollars, whereas the average monthly income per capita is 60 dollars. all of this must make this aspect of our work worth considering.
mr. chairman, prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the total criticism of the uk after the failure of the european council summit does not seem justified. on the contrary, there is strong evidence to suggest that the british presidency does not want to be guided by the national egoism attributed to it. the priorities it sets indicate that the union will tend towards solidarity between its member states, thus returning to the thinking of its founding fathers. the presidency's intention to reform the european union's backbone is encouraging. this pragmatic, forward-looking approach is extremely valuable and can provide a new impetus for the development and cooperation of the peoples of europe, replacing the mythical idea of building a super-state with a constitution buried in the sand. in a recent interview, prime minister tony blair, in discussing the british rebate, said that britain was prepared to pay more, but only if the money went to the poor countries and not the rich. this philosophy of thinking creates a huge opportunity for the poorest regions of europe. five of them are in poland. these are the lublin and podkarpackie regions, for example: they have a large infrastructure gap, but they also have the potential of powerful university centres. these and many other regions of europe need such a rational policy. it remains to be hoped that the strong british presidency will be supported in its efforts by all the member states of the union. i am convinced that france and germany will also support european solidarity, the principle which underpinned the construction of the european community, something which the present leaders of these countries seem to forget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day in our parliament, an important speech by a politician who does not speak in the european bureaucratic language of the euro-speak. you can disagree with him, but he's worth listening to. i remember very well, mr prime minister, your speech four years ago in warsaw, at a meeting with the prime ministers of poland, the czech republic, hungary and slovakia. you were right when you spoke of a europe of the peoples, a vision of a europe of the peoples as opposed to the idea of a supranational europe, an idea that works well on paper or in the minds of the people who have created it. today you have taken the european parliament very seriously when you speak of what is in reality a myth, a challenge and a kind of propaganda. but there's one thing i can't agree with you on...
mr president, prime minister, we had a dream, a dream of a free and generous europe of solidarity. it was a dream for 50 years. we are disillusioned by the present disputes. we in the parliament have succeeded in coming up with a budget in which we have reconciled national sensitivities with the general european interest. our budget may not be ideal but it is a good compromise. the problem is not linked specifically to any particular government – french, british or german or anybody else. it is linked to the wrong philosophy pursued in the budgetary negotiations by the one per cent club. it is simply impossible to have more europe for less money. the union should resist the temptation to make enlargement a scapegoat for or victim of all the problems facing the european union, be it of constitutional or budgetary nature. it is the other way around: the new member states provide dynamics and stimulus for reforms, which are indispensable anyhow. these countries are idealistic about europe to the point of self-sacrifice. the union needs more resources if we are to realise our ambitions. if we are to build a political and economic union we have to move beyond the accountant-type approach, pared down to thinking in net contributor terms. we, the countries of central and eastern europe, know very well what the price of our european dream was. we lived through decades of hardship, violation of human rights, paying the prices of life, jail, gulag and deprivation. we are coming from the cold of yalta, but the climate in europe is becoming chilly and egoistic. how much is europe worth? are there two ways of fixing the price for europe? on the one hand, is it one per cent of gni, is it the rebate, or is it direct payments? or on the other hand, is it not the price we paid, the price of commitment to european values and a community of destiny? but we place a higher value on europe. let us not put it at risk. the price we paid for it is not convertible into euro. one year after joining the eu, how do we explain to our citizens the gap between promise and performance? how do we put more soul into the european project?
mr. chairman, please! on 26 june, our colleague filip adwent, a member of the european parliament, left us. his parents and daughter were also killed in a tragic car accident. we've all been silent for a minute. we have lost a parliamentarian with a big heart and a hard worker, a man of nobility and a fellow man, sensitive to human injuries. he was active in parliamentary work, including in the committee on agriculture and rural development, and in defending the interests of farmers during plenary sessions. his activism and nobility brought us together across political divides in the name of common cause and common good. we have recently spent a lot of time together on the great harm that is being done to polish soft fruit producers in the european union. unfortunately, our colleague advento is no longer with us, and without him, it will be much harder to solve our problems. with a warm and loving memory of my colleague philip adwent, i wish to express my gratitude for his friendship and cooperation, and my heart goes out to his family.
mr. chairman, please! we have lost a colleague, a member of the european parliament, dr filip adwent, who, together with his parents and daughter, died in an accident under unexplained circumstances. i would like to remember our dear colleague, a great, upright, gentle man, a social worker, a patriot, here in the european parliament in strasbourg, the city where he was born and where he lived for 40 years, and to express our sorrow at his passing. i want to say that dr. philip advent was an example of a man of faith who found the gospel pearl of great price, which for him was love of his country, giving new value and meaning to his life. for poland, he left the beautiful strasbourg, wanting to serve the homeland of his ancestors, despite the opposition, distance and abundant life here. in the hope that life changes but does not end, we pray for the eternal life of ambassador philip adventus and his loved ones.
mr. chairman, please! there's a place in the european union where poland and lithuania border russia -- it's been called kaliningrad for decades, and it used to be called królewiec. there was a very big propaganda ceremony, to which the members of the european union, poland and lithuania were not invited, and in which the highest representatives of france and germany, namely the chancellor and the president, took part in a spectacular way. kaliningrad is a symbol of the imperial policy of russia. i must be honest, i do not understand the symbolism of this act by the main leaders of the european union, because they declared in the draft constitution a common foreign policy of the european union. this policy is not visible, and gestures like this are perceived as completely incomprehensible gestures, which imply the historical value of this place, as well as a real community of interest.
mr. chairman, please! i am personally in favour of the economic conditions for the introduction of the euro in my country, poland, being met as soon as possible. at the same time, i am firmly against a community campaign of agitation for the euro. the idea of this campaign is part of the fallacious logic that societies cannot understand reality on their own, they need enlightened elites to enlighten them. this logic has been compromised only recently in the debate on the draft constitutional treaty, and i have no doubt that it will be compromised again. i come from the region where the largest german minority in poland lives. these people work in germany every day, they feel the euro in their wallets, they don't live in a social vacuum, they share information with their neighbours. what kind of theoretical arguments do we put against our personal experiences? how much money does it take to convince these people that once the euro is in place, prices will not go up, when they have already experienced that increase? i urge us to get off the path of trying to change the facts for better or worse with elaborate and costly promotional strategies. they will not change people's minds, but a strong and stable european currency will. you don't need to build monuments with this currency. let's create the economic conditions so that it really is that stable and strong currency.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. phthalates are added to products made of pvc, in particular, to soften them, in many products used as packaging, cosmetics, bath accessories and, unfortunately, also toys, which, as squeaky, soft, easy to play with, especially for small children, are taken into the mouth by them. studies have shown that phthalates can cause allergies, damage to the liver, kidneys, lungs, adrenal glands, reproductive organs, and even cancer. a ban on phthalates in personal care products and toys up to a limit of 0.1 weight per product, while protecting children, is not a sufficient safeguard, especially when the liberal economy and competition mean that legal arrangements are sometimes purely theoretical. the need for information and education on the risks is an important issue, and it would be even more desirable to replace products containing pcv with wood, rubber, ceramics, leather or other natural materials. it is worth noting that the body, especially in infants and young children, will respond to any harmful compromises with an uncompromising response of sickness.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to thank mr trakatellis for his excellent work and for the tenacity with which he has continued it and made the appropriate compromises. protecting the health and safety of children should be our absolute priority, especially when the problem is one that we have direct influence over, when we have the power to make decisions and create legal constraints and minimize the suffering and illness of our youngest citizens. this is the kind of policy that will be european-friendly and understandable to the citizens. studies and analyses show that the presence of toxic phthalate preparations in children's products and clothing is widespread and exceeds the accepted safety standards - these are chemicals added to plastic products, especially pvc, intended to soften them, i.e. most often toys for young children. some manufacturers knowingly add compounds that harm children's health, not realizing that children are the most vulnerable to their effects, says helen perivier, greenpeace campaign coordinator. until governments require companies to use safe substitutes, children will be exposed to substances that can cause long-term harm. studies have shown that phthalates can cause allergies, serious kidney and liver damage, and are carcinogenic. they also show that phthalates have a harmful effect on the male hormone testosterone, which is essential for the normal development of boys, and that they also cause abnormal development of other tissues in the human body, including the brain. the current regulations on these chemicals are inadequate and needed to be changed immediately. given the seriousness of the problem, it is fortunate that a compromise proposal has been put forward by the luxembourg presidency and the european commission to extend the use of phthalates to all toys that can be taken in the mouth by children. the issue of imports from third countries remains to be resolved. toys imported from the far east traditionally contain a high amount of phthalate.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work done on the report on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment. the report contains a number of comments with which i largely agree and which i consider very valuable. however, i would like to draw attention to three aspects of the case which are directly relevant to the definition of security of supply. the first is to increase the use of renewable energy. their environmental benefits are obvious and undeniable. we should promote their use. the second point i would like to make is the one that the rapporteur has also raised, namely the question of balancing the use of different primary fuels in electricity production. however, it is extremely important to me to ensure that there is a diversity of sources of supply within one type of primary fuel. i wanted to talk about not just electricity issues, but energy security in general. i consider unacceptable those elements of the european union's energy policy which make the member states completely dependent on a single source of supply, as is the case for oil, for example, or, above all, for the guaranteed supply of gas to poland from russia in the form of projects. i wanted to appeal here for the acceleration of the construction of the second line of the yamal gas pipeline.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to thank mr. chichester for his very substantive report on the security of the electricity supply. it concerns issues related to cross-border supplies and the core energy network. small-scale energy based on small hydro, wind, geothermal, gas, biomass, etc. power plants is also important for energy security in individual regions. the development of this energy is justified for ecological reasons, reduces transmission costs, reduces the effects of failure on the highway networks. the development of regional and small-scale energy networks requires investment, including investment in research. the small energy sector often faces problems in connecting to the grid and synchronising the activities of its producers. it seems that its problems should be more clearly emphasised in the directive.
mr. chairman, please! the introduction of software patents will not only be harmful to european smes, to scientific research, to the entire information technology sector. this would be particularly damaging to the average citizen who has a computer on his desk and is already paying dearly for expensive proprietary software. the expertise of independent experts has shown that the council's common position makes it possible to patent computer programs. the text that came to the european parliament two years ago introduces this possibility as if through a back door. the amendments adopted by the legal affairs committee do not provide a proper compromise and do not remove the most serious controversy and doubts, especially in the most difficult case, which is the determination of the subject matter of patent protection. they can do little to move away from the excessively liberal assessment of applications involving the use of a computer program adopted in the current practice of the european patent office. they do not contain the favourable provisions of the draft recommendation for second reading of 29 april and 4 may 2005 which could have helped to draw a clear distinction between what constitutes an invention and what does not. the fear is that the directive will not have a harmonising effect, because it not only fails to clarify the most controversial border issues, but will even reinforce the existing doubts. it may also be taken as a confirmation of the excessively liberal practice of recognising as inventions solutions involving the use of a computer program, applied against the background of article 52 (2) and (3) of the munich convention on the grant of european patents. it is our duty to vote in the spirit of the first reading, in the spirit of the ideas put forward by michel rocard and to confirm what our colleagues adopted in the previous term. not only to ensure that their work is not wasted, but above all to protect the free software market, to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and to protect the development of innovation, while keeping in mind the need to ensure that intellectual property is properly protected in the single market.
mr. chairman, please! just as a doctor should not harm his patients, this european parliament should not harm the societies that have produced it. we should be concerned first and foremost with freedom, freedom of trade. the question is, do we need any legislation at all? if we have seen the phenomenal growth of computer software over the last few years, do we need to have specific regulations to regulate it today? it was going well, why spoil it? this economic success is obvious, and now all the new regulations will only make it harder. competition is a very important thing -- it's the yeast, it's the engine of economic success. on the one hand, large companies have the potential for new exploration that small ones do not have, but on the other hand, when large companies get into a monopolistic situation, they tend to stagnate and stagnate. monopoly, whether it's a state monopoly or whether it's a monopoly of big business, is not the ally of economic success. we must be very careful when we vote on this and especially when we vote on the amendments, so that we do not lead to a monopoly of the big companies, which will be harmful. first of all, we must remember that to be successful economically we cannot harm small or mediumsized enterprises, and above all we cannot harm the ordinary consumers of these programmes, that is, those who use them, because that would be against everyone. we are here to protect freedom and economic success, not slavery and self-indulgence.
mr. chairman, please! the directive proposed by the commission and the council is unacceptable for many reasons, and mainly because, although article 4 prohibits the patenting of computer programs, article 5 opens the door wide to this practice, if it were to concern, i quote, a computer program or a computer network. so what's the problem? i think it's about the very large software market in the european union, and monopolizing it. it's worth at least tens of billions of euros. the dangers of the unchanged directive are, firstly, the monopoly of the software market by large and financially powerful non-europeans, which is very dangerous for the union in a competitive global world. secondly, the elimination of a number of small and medium-sized software companies in europe. thirdly, the price dictation of the patent monopolists in services, including online. finally, fourthly, the great danger to democracy in europe, because the internet is a very important medium. the proposals of mr rochard, who as rapporteur has done a tremendous job of delving into the complexity of the subject, defend the principle of open source, which is a praiseworthy thing, defend democracy against the dictates of monopoly and, at this legislative stage, lead to a consultative process which will, i think, produce the optimal solution. software, like mathematical theories, and thinking itself, cannot be patented. but you can patent, and you do patent, inventions with a computer attached. such patents contain independent claims of a technical nature which relate to material systems and dependent claims valid only within the scope of the patent, which may contain references to the computer and all aspects of its operation. but this area of inventive activity, which is important for the automotive industry, the home appliance industry, mobile telephony, and so on, needs to be regulated.
mr. chairman, please! today is an important day for the european parliament, because today we have a chance to really prove that the parliament is really the representative of millions of europeans. we are now able to defend, and to a large extent defend, the interests of millions of computer owners, as well as hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses - and this is what they are demanding of us in emails, letters, appeals. i think that suddenly civic europe has realised that a civic europe needs a european parliament. let us not be the spokesmen or lobbyists of big business, let us be the spokesmen of a grassroots social movement mobilizing against bad decisions by eu institutions that only another eu institution can fix. it is not just, and not primarily, about software patents, it is about social pressure, which gives the european parliament a great opportunity to be the representative of the citizens not only in beautiful theory but also in ordinary practice. let's take this chance.
mr. chairman, please! the legal status of computer programs has long been settled. the software is copyrighted. the european patent convention excludes the patenting of computer programs. both legal theorists and computer scientists are opposed to changing this situation. it is only the practice of the european patent office which is to be sanctioned by a council directive, and that is bad and dangerous. i therefore call on behalf of professor buzek and myself for support for all 21 amendments to the package which restore the directive to its original meaning or for the directive to be rejected in its entirety. as the german parliament stated in its resolution of 17 february this year, patent inflation risks undermining the public's acceptance of the patent system as an effective tool for innovation and progress. it is therefore the responsibility of the european parliament to apply the safety brake in such a situation. there is no need to add further patent protection to computer programs. the main argument for the introduction of patent law was the need to protect investments. material innovation requires long-term experimentation and then capital investment before it can be profitable. however, investment in information goods is usually low, if at all. there is therefore no need for additional legal protection for them. it's also not true that software patenting, as the european patent office understands it, is an opportunity. patents also carry dangers and should therefore be used with caution. patent myths and half-truths abound. i'll name a few. granting patents is always good for the economy -- that's a myth. officials often measure economic innovation by the number of patents. however, patents can harm investment by restricting competition. a large number of the leading computer companies never applied for patents. hardly anyone in the computer science field is interested in patent descriptions. and no one has been able to prove a direct link between patent expansion and economic growth. the second myth is that software patents can help small and medium-sized enterprises because they give them exclusive rights to their innovative ideas. patents, however, not only protect, but also block. it's very difficult for smaller companies to get protection because the cost of enforcing a patent is very high, up to 100 times the cost of getting a patent. in addition, there is the need to make a difficult discovery of whether someone else has already reserved something. in the case of computer science, with the particular ease of introducing a slight variation, patenting them is creating a kind of minefield.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union institutions have a fundamental responsibility in the legislative process to produce good, clear and effective law. i do not need to remind you how many times we have heard assurances of this approach from the president of the commission and from the various presidencies, and parliament is undoubtedly an important link in this process. the directive we are finishing up today is an example of a completely different practice, unfortunately, because both the commission and the council believe that only their draft is good and reject the proposals put forward by the members of this parliament. i want to believe that this time it will be different and that the interests of the millions of citizens of the union, and also of small and mediumsized enterprises, which - and this must be borne in mind - provide jobs for 90% of the workforce, will prevail. so we can't just focus on the interests of the big, rich companies. the main concerns are that there is no clear distinction between an invention, i.e. a technical solution that can be patented, and a computer program and algorithm, i.e. a computational method, a mathematical concept or a method of doing business, especially in retail trade. if so, the purpose of this harmonisation project is, to say the least, highly doubtful. the clause declaring the exclusion of patenting a computer program as such will unfortunately have an illusory meaning, as in the current practice of the european patent office. and you, commissioner, in your speech at the beginning of today's debate, said that this directive would not change the practice of this office. that is a disturbing statement. there is no doubt that the harmonization of patent law, including that for inventions created by computer, is very necessary, but on one condition: that it is a good law, and that it is good for the majority. the directive, unamended by mr. rochard and mr. buzek, will perpetuate and sanction an extremely liberal approach to the essential elements that distinguish the concept of invention. i therefore ask the house to accept the amendments tabled by mr buzek and mr rochard.
member of the commission. mr president, those of you who have been directly involved in working on this proposal know that we are dealing with a very complex area. the directive cannot be turned on its head. what we need is a proper balance between stimulating innovation and making sure competition is not stifled. as commissioner mccreevy said in his statement of march 2005, the ball is in your court. whatever you decide, the commission will take account of it and respect it. should you decide to reject the common position, the commission will not submit a new proposal. you should also remember that rejection would stand in the way of many european undertakings and go against our common lisbon objectives of increasing europe’s competitiveness. in the debate, various members have raised the question of interoperability. on that issue the commission maintains a certain degree of flexibility. compulsory licensing schemes already exist in member states’ legislation. it is a suitable solution, provided that non-discrimination between different software development models, ‘proprietary’ or ‘open source’, is ensured. companies should be motivated to licence voluntarily. however, if rightholders abuse their rights by imposing unreasonable conditions, authorities should step in to ensure fair terms are applied. a limited interoperability exception, geared towards the promotion of open standards, could also constitute a sound approach, provided that international obligations are respected. various members also raised the question of copyright. let me clarify that by pointing out that copyright is a separate and different right from patents. copyright and patents protect different aspects of something which is new and original. so patents do not affect the existence of copyright. copyright protects the expression of an idea, but it does not protect any invention and copyright protection does not prevent someone taking an invention and expressing it in a different way. with regard to small and medium-sized businesses and their access to the patent system, i should draw attention to two aspects. first, members will be aware of the commission’s proposals for a community patent which would reduce the costs of patent protection throughout the european union. secondly, we have had a feasibility study done on the question of insurance against the costs of patent litigation. this study is now in a second phase and consultants have been asked to come up with concrete proposals. in view of the large number of amendments tabled, we are providing the secretariat with an overview of the commission’s position on them in writing for inclusion in the verbatim report of this debate commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. finally, i hope that the vote will result in a positive outcome. however, should further work be needed to reach agreement with the council, the commission stands ready to assist both co-legislators towards reaching a constructive outcome.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
in writing. the three main aspects of energy security that were not adequately addressed in the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council are:• the aspect of increased use of renewable energy sources,• the sustainable use of different types of primary fuel,• the differentiation of supplies from different production centres (oil and gas fields) within one type of primary fuel. i think it is very harmful to maintain a european policy in this area which, in the name of security, leads to poland's total dependence on a single source of supply, namely russian oil and gas. the advanced concept of the second yamal pipeline strand should be continued. all other projects (the baltic sea pipeline project and the so-called 'amber pipeline') should be immediately abandoned as a direct threat to the newly reborn ukrainian democracy. the energy security of the uk, germany and italy should not be achieved at the expense of poland's dependence on russian oil and gas and the threat to ukraine's economic stability.
in writing. "the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment regulates many areas of common european energy market. i indicate three major aspects of the energy security which are not adequately underlined: · enhanced use of renewable energy sources· balanced use of various types of primary fuels· diversification of supplies from various production centres (oil and gas fields) within one type of the primary fuel. i consider it totally unacceptable to maintain the european policy in this respect leading, in the name of security, to complete dependency of poland on one source of supply, namely russian gas and oil. the well advanced in concept project of the second route of the jamal gas pipeline should be continued immediately. all the other projects (baltic sea bottom pipeline or so called "amber pipeline") should be abandoned as striking directly in newly emerging ukrainian democracy. energy security of great britain, germany and italy should not be achieved at the cost if polish dependency and a threat to ukrainian economic stability."
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: let me make a few comments on the report. i'll try to speak as a reporter, not as a representative of my political party. cross-border cooperation is one of the most visible and effective ways of building personal bonds and good relations between local, regional and national communities. crossborder cooperation already has a rich tradition and has achieved significant successes over many years. different forms of organization have also developed. the european union, aware of the many benefits of this form of international cooperation, supports it both within the union, at its borders and in regions far from each other, and at its external borders, using various types of financial instruments. the current programming period is the time of many activities of a cross-border, transnational and interregional nature. i am using the terminology of the interreg iiia, iiib and iiic programmes here. the regulation in question is a new legislative proposal which can contribute both to strengthening the many forms of crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation and to facilitating the conduct of joint ventures and to improving the efficiency of the use of funds allocated to this purpose. the new regulation gives public authorities at all levels the possibility of setting up a new instrument in one of the selected countries, which will have legal personality in the country of establishment and will then be notified to all member states, the european commission and the committee of the regions - as i propose in my report. the bodies which make up the european cooperation grouping, as the original text says, crossborder and as i propose in my report, territorial, will be able to delegate to it selected public services and to entrust it with some of its tasks as provided for by the rules. the creation of this instrument is perhaps one of the first proposals in the history of the european union to create a truly european entity and at the same time to strengthen the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity in practice. i think that the european parliament should support this idea and thus give a very clear and measurable signal of its support for these actions at local, regional and national level, but also at interlocal, interregional and inter-state level, which are building a cohesive union and at the same time reinforcing the principle of subsidiarity. it is worth emphasising that this regulation, although it does not contain any decisions on financial matters, is part of the cohesion policy package, since it is based on treaty provisions on the creation of forms that serve the use of the structural funds or on activities without the use of the structural funds. as rapporteur, i am aware of the many questions and doubts that have been raised in the work on this instrument. as is usual, this is the case when we are dealing with a new instrument, which has not yet been tested and has not yet been given its equivalent in the current legal forms. however, i believe that in this case the codecision procedure will allow us to develop a position which will strengthen the existing crossborder activities and will allow us to achieve significant european added value. (laughter)
author of the draft opinion search by responsible committee . mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are all fully aware that the range of objectives we set ourselves and the range of needs we have are far wider and richer than the funds we are able to provide. it is therefore obvious that these funds must be programmed as well as used as efficiently as possible, and this is the direction of the changes proposed for the nearest financial perspective. it is incomprehensible to abandon certain rules that have worked and have worked well so far, and i am thinking here of the principle of multi-funding, which allows the member states to pool the funds needed to carry out a single task in the best possible way, that is to say, to use the money as they see fit in their own country. this solution is to be changed by limiting cross-financing to 5%. why change a rule that works well, for which the administrative instruments have already been built and the staff has been prepared? why change a principle that allows for greater freedom of decision-making in operational planning and in the execution of tasks? the second issue i would like to address is housing finance. i agree, of course, with the amendments proposed by the commission, which say that housing as such must not be financed, and i welcome the clarification by commissioner hübner that housing expenditure that leads to energy savings and also to environmental protection is eligible. however, as i come from a new member state - poland - i would like to draw your attention to the fact that public housing in the former communist bloc countries is mainly large-scale, multi-dwelling buildings, which are already unenvironmentally friendly and in many cases very dangerous. it would therefore be worth considering whether it would not be good if the cohesion fund could finance the revitalization of these very buildings, since there is no possibility of completely rebuilding the appropriate number of housing units.
author of the draft opinion search by committee responsible. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is good that at a time of constitutional and budgetary crisis in the european union we are debating the shape of the main instruments of european solidarity, such as the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the social fund. it was solidarity that was at the heart of the european construction, and it was solidarity policy that made the integration of the founding countries with the poorer countries of our continent a rapid process. it is also worth recalling here in strasbourg that many years earlier the marshall plan had helped to rebuild the economies of western europe, including germany, the most powerful economy in the world today, from the ravages of war. it was then that the communist governments of central europe rejected the marshall plan, condemning their nations to decades of civilizational backwardness. the policy of solidarity, which, as prime minister juncker stressed in his farewell speech, is the most important policy of a united europe, unfortunately did not find its proper place in the excellent speech by the prime minister of the united kingdom, tony blair, and that is a pity. the new countries of the european union are ready for reform and change. we have been reforming for 15 years and we are not easily intimidated by the need to take on new challenges, so these countries can be a natural ally for london in its quest to build a modern, resourceful and fast-growing economic union, free from fear and anxiety. we will not achieve this without maintaining the policy of cohesion, solidarity, support for the poorer countries and regions as the most important element of european policy. the eligibility needs to be extended to new areas that promote sustainability - energy efficiency, renewable energy, carbon capture or green public transport. the cohesion fund should also finance the management of water networks, and in particular programmes related to flood protection programmes, as well as the natura 2000 network. i also ask that the current rules on eligibility for vat be maintained for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. this is particularly important in the light of experience with the use of structural assistance.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i also want to thank all the authors of the reports in question. the current debate on the future of cohesion policy is a great test of the practical application of one of the fundamental values of the european union - solidarity for equality of opportunity. i would like to remind you that the aim of cohesion policy is to support the restructuring and modernisation of those countries which, without support, have no chance of quickly catching up with the average level of economic development in the european union. today, these are mainly the new member states. from their point of view, the most important issues we are discussing today are certainly the application of the n+2 principle and the eligibility of vat as eligible costs. the nature of projects financed by the cohesion fund means that their preparation itself takes more than two years. these are often large investment projects which deviate from the normal timeframe of projects financed by the structural funds. the extension of the n+2 principle will certainly reduce the level of use of the funds allocated. as regards vat, the experience of the new countries has shown that the main barrier to the use of structural aid is the relatively high start-up costs of projects, borne by the beneficiaries' own resources. the exclusion of vat from the list of eligible costs will mean that many entities, including the local government unit, will not be able to bear these heavy burdens of project implementation. preliminary estimates indicate that, for example, the share of national resources needed to implement projects in the case of the european regional development fund may amount to almost 63% of the value of the union funds. this puts the new member states in a disadvantageous position compared with those which have previously benefited from structural assistance. i appeal to my colleagues from the old member states: let us seize the opportunity to be solidarity, let us give europe a chance to develop, it is also in your interest.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs. there is much talk about cohesion and the balanced development of europe. but if this is to be a reality, the appropriate decisions must be taken on the cohesion fund, the structural funds, the social fund and crossborder cooperation. i would like to call for less rigid solutions, especially with regard to the n+2 principle for the cohesion fund, non-refundable vat, as well as social housing and multi-funding. the adoption of amendments to this effect will serve not only the new member states but also the old ones. there are many examples of the fact that the old 15 companies are the ones winning the new tenders. these newcomers also understand statistical effects, island conditioning and so on. i would add that this division of the subcutaneous tissue into old and new tissue is harmful to the union. in mathematical game theory, there are also games in which the gain of one group does not entail the loss of another. let us play a game of this sort. it's good for europe.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak at this point. colleagues will report on future contributions, but i am grateful to you for understanding the difficulties involved in being here for the changed time of the debate. we have heard some excellent contributions. i particularly welcomed mr galeote quecedo’s stress on the importance of cohesion to the future of the european union. i also agree how welcome an early decision on the budget would be. that requires a serious focus by all of us on achieving an outcome. we will certainly undertake to play our part in trying to bring about such agreement. i also note the emphasis he placed on such issues as vat and housing. i say to members that we will now reflect on the points raised today and examine carefully the reports and the amendments that are adopted tomorrow. the presidency will then maintain close contact with parliament as we move towards a common position, in order to discuss how best to accommodate your concerns. some of those concerns were very varied. mrs krehl referred to the success of the cohesion funds in the uk. i agree, and that is one of the reasons that we agree with the point that mr beaupuy made when he called for a focus on the ten new member states. mrs griesbeck called for agreement but reserved the right to say ‘non’. i say to her and others that we should all focus on getting the right answer for the 21st century for europe. but, again, today the focus is on the regulations. as i said in my opening remarks, there are differences of opinion on the package of regulations, but it is clear from the debate that there is a strong consensus between the council and parliament on many aspects of reform. we are all determined to develop a dynamic and efficient eu regional policy that contributes fully to the union’s key objectives and helps ensure that enlargement is a success – all except mr smith, who read a press release into the record, and perhaps mr booth, who seems to have missed the enormous benefits of regional development in england. but turning now to the mainstream of the debate, parliament has raised a range of questions and issues regarding the size of future structural funds budget, as well as its distribution between the member states and their regions. a number of members, especially mr hatzidakis and mr andria, have defended the broad architecture of the commission’s proposals, which would focus an expanded structural funds budget on three objectives – convergence, competitiveness and cooperation – and have opposed any modification of the distribution of funds between these three priorities. mrs schroedter emphasised the role of the eu regional policy in ensuring eu solidarity. i agree – although there is evidently a range of views – on how to introduce genuine solidarity in practice. for example, mr triantaphyllides argued for a greater focus on the poorer member states, while mr allister suggested that the commission’s proposals would allocate too much to the new members. the council is also pursuing a debate on the best way to focus and deliver the funds in the next financial perspective so that they make the most efficient contribution to the eu’s regional development; asking a range of questions regarding the commission’s proposals for the allocation of the funds, for the distribution between the three objectives, on the emphasis placed on convergence funding for richer regions, primarily in the richer member states and the proposed 50-50 split of funding between the old and new member states. others have questioned aspects of the technical rules for delivering programmes, such as the application of the n+2 rule to the cohesion fund, where there was a welcome reference to flexibility on the way that applied, and the treatment of vat and other expenditure. these are complex issues and how we resolve them will have a major impact on the effectiveness of future structural fund spending. i noted that most parties in parliament and the council are broadly supportive of the commission’s proposals to strengthen the strategic focus of structural fund spending on the lisbon and göteborg agendas. we all want a rigorous evaluation and more flexible and efficient mechanisms for delivering projects and we are all eager to maintain robust rules for monitoring expenditure so that structural fund spending is rigorously accounted for. we can agree with mr silva peneda and mrs krehl on the need to simplify procedures for delivering structural fund programmes. while we welcome many of the commission’s useful initiatives in this area, the council can certainly agree with mr silva peneda that there is scope for even greater simplification of some of the proposals in the draft regulation. we can also agree with mr harangozó and others on the need to maximise private sector involvement in the programmes. as for the priorities for structural fund support, again the council and parliament have much in common. on the erdf, we all agree on the need to maintain an appropriate level of concentration on a limited number of priorities and, as mr fava has argued, to strengthen the focus on activities, such as innovation, research and development in support for lisbon targets. on the esf, we can agree with mr silva peneda on the need for a clear focus on the european employment strategy. the outstanding issues are now clear. both the council and parliament are eager to maintain a strong principle of partnership so that national, regional and local stakeholders continue to participate actively in the delivery of programmes. however, there are differences that we need to resolve on working with partners. similarly, there is widespread support for measures to improve the effectiveness of structural funds. but we have differing views on some aspects of the commission’s proposals. for example, the council has been unable to offer support for the commission’s proposals to establish obligatory performance and contingency reserves, because we fear that the administrative difficulties and bureaucratic cost would outweigh any concrete benefits they might achieve. these are not insurmountable difficulties, but we need to work closely together to resolve these differences over the coming months. we will take parliament’s views into account as we prepare new compromise texts to be discussed in the council working group. my colleague alan johnson will be visiting the committee on regional development on 12 september, and will be happy to discuss these issues further with members then. we will keep in close contact with the rapporteurs to discuss matters with them as the council’s position develops. from today’s debate i have a very much clearer understanding of parliament’s views on these very important dossiers. time is tight and our two institutions will need to cooperate closely. for my part, i can assure you that the council will work constructively and effectively with you to find a way forward. i look forward to our cooperation over the coming months to establish the common ground on which we can build a cohesion policy fit for a new europe in the 21st century.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to make a heartfelt appeal from this place for a little bit of consequence. we have adopted a rule a few weeks ago when we voted on the böge report, that we do not extend the n+2 principle to the cohesion fund. we have adopted a rule that we force companies that have benefited from structural aid to stay in one place for five years. we're planning to change that right now. we've had a different opinion for a few weeks, and now we're going to have a different opinion. i'm calling for a little consequence. in the böge report we considered that, especially for the new countries, the extension of the n+2 principle to the cohesion fund would in many cases make it impossible for large projects to benefit from this fund. and so with businesses, as if we're giving money with one hand and taking it with the other, we're establishing, right now, when so many poor countries and poor regions have joined the european union, the principle that vat is not an eligible cost. polish children say, "he who gives and takes, he goes to hell". i'm calling for us not to give with one hand and take with the other. as regards vat, if the amendments are not adopted tomorrow, i would appeal to the commissioner, i would appeal to the european council, to give serious consideration to a zero vat rate for investments made with european funds. the zero vat rate could appease those who do not want the community funds to go to the budgets of individual countries and those who cannot afford to double their own contribution because of the changes proposed at the moment. i urge you to take seriously the serious concerns of new countries in particular. i urge you not to make the expansion a fiction.
mr. chairman, please! a year ago, the european union added ten new countries, mostly poor countries. although we hear about sustainability all the time, it's mostly just empty words. at the moment, there is an attempt to change the current rules governing the main instruments for financing regional development. why are new countries faced with different, more difficult conditions than those that served the old 15 well? the recognition of non-refundable vat as an ineligible cost and the introduction of the n+2 principle in the cohesion fund are obvious barriers to development for new countries. are such actions an expression of solidarity in europe? the current rules should not be changed now, otherwise the poor will not be able to benefit from union aid. the new countries should have the same opportunities for development that the old 15 have enjoyed. it is time for the words 'a europe of equal opportunities and sustainable development' to finally have legislative force. let us make change for the better, not for the worse, and let us not divide europe into the good and the bad.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the council regulations on the structural funds and the cohesion fund, as the member from the new member state, poland, i would like to start by welcoming the fact that work on these regulations is continuing despite the lack of agreement in the council on the new financial perspective for 2007-13. the preparation of these regulations well in advance of the period to which they relate will allow, in particular, the new member states to adequately prepare the structures of public authorities of the various types of institutions, the beneficiaries of projects and the internal national legal provisions. in my speech, i would like to draw attention to two issues of particular importance to the new member states, because of the limited time available. the first is the problem of vat, and more specifically the problem of the inclusion of vat charges in the eligible costs of projects. this is particularly important for public beneficiaries of projects who are not taxpayers, e.g. in poland this applies to most projects. in such cases, vat increases the cost of implementing these projects by more than 1/5 of the total. this in turn leads to a reduction in the number of projects submitted and often also to financial disruption for beneficiaries. mr hatzidakis agreed in his report to adopt such a vat solution for the cohesion fund. the group proposed that a similar solution be adopted for the european regional development fund, as there is no logical explanation for adopting different solutions under different funds. the second important proposal put forward by the group of meps is to exclude the n+2 principle from cohesion fund projects. this will allow for greater flexibility under the fund and will facilitate the implementation of large infrastructure projects, particularly in the new member states. moreover, such a solution would be in line with the provisions on this matter contained in the so-called böge report on the new financial perspective for 2007-2013. finally, i would like to express the hope that these two important proposals will eventually be supported by a majority in the european parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to say a few words and i thank you for this opportunity. i would like to thank all of you for this inspiring debate. i have been listening carefully to your arguments and i am absolutely convinced that, as we continue our dialogue and cooperation through the consecutive stages of the legislative process, the commission will be able to accommodate many of your concerns and that it will be to the benefit of our proposals. in that context the commitment of the presidency to work in partnership for early results has indeed been encouraging. i shall briefly make two comments on two issues to which i did not refer in my introductory remarks. on partnership, i want to say that the commission fully agrees with all those of you who pleaded for reinforcement of the partnership in the process of implementing the funds. yes, it is the principle of partnership that makes the governance of our policy so unique. my second comment is on an issue quite dear to my heart and that is private capital participation in the financing of cohesion programmes. the commission would certainly like to see member states making use of public-private partnership in the implementation of the cohesion policy and i can tell you that the original proposal has been modified in order to allow member states to define the co-financing rate at programme and not priority level. i shall finish by emphasising what unites this house and the commission, not what divides us. i am sure that the commission and parliament are both convinced that the union’s cohesion policy, whilst focusing on the poorest and responding to their needs, must apply to every region of europe. the solidarity expressed by this policy was vital for the harmonious development of the union in the past and it should remain so in the future. i believe both parliament and the commission are convinced that a vibrant and adequately resourced cohesion policy can make an essential contribution to the modernisation of the union’s economy by helping it to achieve the lisbon goals and benefit from the globalisation of markets. in conclusion, the construction and further development of this policy is our common task and the commission has drawn strength at every step of the way from the support, both intellectual and political, of this parliament. i commit myself to continuing the dialogue between our institutions within and beyond the formal procedures. together i am sure we can make something which will be of lasting benefit to our citizens and help them improve the quality of their daily lives.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to your comments and comments and thank you again for your valuable contributions. i am glad that we have reached agreement with parliament on the main issues. the commission strongly supports your will to integrate the gender dimension and equal opportunities in general into all the dimensions of the fund. cohesion policy must contribute to the elimination of all forms of discrimination. in this respect, i would like to recall that the structural funds have already played, and will play even more in the future, an important role in the social integration of roma and other disadvantaged groups. cohesion policy must also promote social inclusion within the common objectives of combating exclusion, and this point has been reinforced by parliament and the commission agrees with this in any event. i can tell you that the commission can accept a total of 68 proposals, with 31 amendments remaining which the commission cannot accept for the following reasons. the first is that the commission attaches great importance to the role that the social partners can play in implementing the future work of the european social fund, which is why we have adopted amendments nos 6, 46 and 54 and therefore cannot accept amendments which go against the amendments that have been adopted. another reason why we have reservations about certain amendments is that they are horizontal provisions falling under another regulation or because they overlap with other provisions of the draft regulation or general regulation, because they are impracticable or do not fall within the scope of the european social fund or because they are contrary to sound and effective financial management. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see the fruitful cooperation between the commission and the european parliament, which aims to achieve an outcome that will guarantee the effective operation of the european social fund for the coming period in pursuit of the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy for growth and employment. the european social fund will be, in 2007-13, a fund based on the principles of cohesion, concentration, simplification, but also on partnership extended to all key actors. i am confident that a strategy conceived in this way will be an effective instrument in the service of employment in europe, in the service of social cohesion, in the service of equal opportunities and in the service of the rejection of any form of discrimination and disadvantage.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, given the limited time at my disposal i can only comment broadly on the spirit of the amendments tabled. the commission can agree to a number of amendments, which also reflect the progress that has been achieved in the council. these include eligibility for replacement of engines for small-scale vessels under strict conditions so as to ensure that there is no increase in fishing capacity. with respect to aid for young fishermen operating in small-scale fisheries and wishing to purchase a second-hand fishing vessel, proposals considered by the council restrict such aid to the purchase of vessels below twelve metres not using towed gears. your request to apply this possibility to all vessels requires further examination. the scope of socio-economic measures has been extended to training and to compensation for fishermen working on board vessels whose activity has been stopped permanently. the requirement whereby aid for temporary cessation of activities must be accompanied by a reduction of capacity is withdrawn and replaced by reinstating the current fifg provisions setting the threshold of community contribution to all types of temporary cessation. we stated in council that eff-funded plans put forward following the adoption of emergency measures may also cover real-time closures for reasons of concentration of juveniles or of spawning. it is proposed to extend eff support to medium-sized enterprises operating in the aquaculture, processing and marketing sectors, while keeping small and micro-enterprises the priority. aquaculture is made more visible. indeed, we have included aquaculture in the definition of the fisheries sector, and support for aquaculture is explicitly quoted as one of the objectives and missions of the eff. support for inland fisheries, with the exclusion of vessel construction, and the starting-up and restructuring of producers' organisations are reinstated. there are new funding possibilities to enhance and protect the environment in natura 2000 areas concerned by fisheries activities. in addition to other provisions on equal opportunities, we have added support for collective actions aimed at networking and the exchange of experience among organisations promoting equal opportunities between men and women. the commission cannot accept the following proposals that have been included in your report. the construction or replacement of vessels, even with no increase of capacity. the commission cannot accept a proposal that goes against our conservation policy. such aid would contribute to maintaining the situation of fleet overcapacity. the commission is not prepared to move on this point, which for us remains a fundamental pillar of sustainable fisheries. the same applies to aid for the establishment of joint ventures. such aid benefits mainly private vessel owners and would run counter to our commitments made within international organisations. however, there is agreement that studies on the feasibility of such joint enterprises could be funded. regarding the replacement of engines for all types of vessels, let me repeat that during the council deliberations the commission accepted a compromise whereby the replacement of engines would be allowed for small-scale vessels. i have listened to your views with regard to the extension of aid beyond the parameters already accepted by the commission. clearly, this must be further evaluated. i am of the view that the installation of young fish farmers need not be financed in the same way as that of young fishermen, because aquaculture is not facing the same recruitment problems as the catching sector. i am willing to look into this further.we have proposed the reinstatement of aid for inland fisheries. however the commission cannot accept the request to extend aid for the construction of inland fishing vessels, because precaution is also required in inland fishing, where some stocks are reported to be in a bad situation, and given the limits of scientific knowledge in this area. we nevertheless envisage that vessels operating in inland fishing should enjoy the same treatment as vessels operating in marine fishing. finally, we have also carefully examined your amendments concerning the 'horizontal issues' with regard to the management, monitoring and control systems. as you are no doubt aware, these provisions are very much inspired by the proposals for a regulation on structural funds. for the sake of coherence among community instruments, we shall await sufficient progress to be made in the negotiations on these proposals.
the next item is the report by mrs emine bozkurt, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the role of women in social, economic and political life in turkey (a6-0175/2005) (com (2004) 2215 final).
mr. chairman, please! this report informs us that turkey is not and does not want to be ready to join the european union and participate in a value system with christian roots. for example, because of the lack of respect for women's rights in turkey, i am asking that the accession negotiations with that country, which are scheduled to begin in three months' time, not be opened. this is just one of many reasons, and the main one is cultural differences. i propose that we start negotiations when turkey is more like europe, which is probably never. we have no right to demand that the turks give up their own civilization, their own system of values, their own religion, which is the foundation of all civilization. are women really discriminated against in turkey? are they more discriminated against today than in the past? or maybe turkey simply has different standards, cultural patterns, that are not translatable to the european model of behavior. perhaps the increased violence against women is also an expression of the fear and dislike of traditional turkish society towards european integration. the turkish people, who are unable to respect their own women and national minorities, will not be able to respect us europeans, who have been brought up in a different spirit, in a different system of values.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the members for their comments, which included some very important messages that will have to be taken into account. i will just respond to two or three points made by most of the speakers. firstly, as the rapporteur, mrs pack and many others said, implementation is indeed at the heart of the matter, as is a change of mentality. the legislative changes are important and their implementation essential, but changes in mentality and mindset are at least as important. we therefore support, and will reinforce our support for, awareness-building measures to strive for a change in mentality and mindset regarding the practical application of women’s rights and the attitude of the security forces, for instance, in terms of human rights in general. that is also the objective of the civil society dialogue that we launched last week, which will accompany the negotiations and move forward in parallel with the negotiations proper. we aim to create long-term partnerships, for instance between women’s organisations in the european union and turkey, in order to increase mutual understanding and strengthen civil society in turkey, which is one of its weak points. that will certainly enhance women’s participation and european values of gender equality and women’s rights. as regards quotas, mentioned by mrs jäätteenmäki and the rapporteur, the commission agrees with the rapporteur that we cannot ask turkey for more than we are prepared to provide ourselves. the fact is that some member states have quotas and others do not. i recall that the member state i know best has, for quite some time, had quotas to enhance women’s participation in public decision-making. i recall that as a young member of parliament in 1991, together with mrs jäätteenmäki, we faced a vote on quotas on the basis of gender equality. once i had a meeting with other mps under 35 and realised that i was in a minority of 12.5%, because the other seven mps under 35 were women, i certainly voted for the quotas so as to ensure equal representation of both sexes in the future. on 3 october, we will start a long and no doubt difficult journey. it is important to realise that it is precisely the prospect of accession that provides the incentive for turkey to enhance women’s rights. it also provides a very strong push for activists and citizens who are concerned and want to work for these important european values. i can assure you that the commission will carry out objective and strict monitoring in the course of these accession negotiations. it is a very good idea to repeat this exercise every year and thus follow the progress made on women’s rights in turkey.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs angelika niebler on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the implementation of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation (com ((2004) 0279 - c6-0037/2004 - 2004/0084 ((cod)) (a6-0176/2005)).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution was intended to improve women's equal opportunities and status in the labour market. many amendments are conducive to change for the better, but it seems that real improvement will come not only with the introduction of legal norms, but above all as a result of a change in the way of thinking about the role of women in economic and social life, from a liberal one based on moral relativism to one based on ethical and moral principles that see in man - both in woman and man - a person and not just a useful object used for profit. the vulnerable, especially women, are particularly vulnerable to exploitative approaches, which involve corporations, concerns and retail chains refusing to grant maternity leave, not paying wages, or forcing women to do work or services that are degrading to women. and the change in thinking has to start with education -- in school, at home, in the workplace, in all areas of life. women have a different psychophysical structure, and we think that women should be banned from a number of jobs to protect them. women, in their fight for equality, have often put themselves at a disadvantage by competing and fighting with men instead of cooperating, sharing responsibilities according to their predispositions. i find it very damaging that the draft document omits a significant population of women who are pensioners or those who are not, which is contrary to the declarations made in the resolution, and without applying the provisions mentioned, the directive in question will be another dead document.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very engaging and clear debate. first of all, i would like to emphasise that the prospect of rapid adoption of this important directive exists and must be exploited in the interests of european citizens. i note that there are differences between the institutions regarding the philosophy of the revision, but this important progress needs to be made in order to promote equality between men and women in the eyes of all stakeholders. let me now clarify the commission's position on the amendments. a significant part of the amendments is readily acceptable to the commission and, in our view, is also compatible with the council's position as expressed in its general approach of 7 december 2004. they will make a significant contribution to improving community law in this area and to improving its accessibility through various means. these are technical tools, legal clarifications and elements that give new political impetus to promoting equality between men and women, for example in terms of equal pay. the other group of amendments is not acceptable for purely technical reasons, which will be explained in detail in the amended commission proposal. there are also a number of amendments which the commission rejects because they do not correspond to what can reasonably be done in the context of the recasting process. this procedure is designed in particular to facilitate the simultaneous pursuit of the codification of community acts on the one hand and the definition of substantive changes on the other. firstly, the change in the possibility of taking positive action in the obligations of the member states under the new article 3a. since primary law in article 141 (4) of the treaty clearly provides that member states have discretion here, we see considerable obstacles to a secondary law act which refers to that article of the treaty but abrogates that discretion. secondly, the commission cannot accept the conversion of the obligation on the member states to promote certain measures in the context of social dialogue into the obligation to guarantee certain outcomes of that dialogue, as proposed in articles 24 and 27. this proposal would be difficult to reconcile with the principle of the autonomy of the social partners. i would also like to point out that the relevant provisions were only introduced in directive 2002/73 after lengthy negotiations with parliament and the council. this directive, and thus the rules which constitute an innovative approach aimed at enhancing the involvement of the social partners, will not enter into force until october 2005. we do not think it appropriate to change these provisions before it has had a chance to prove itself in practice. the revision clause for the parental leave directive, as proposed for the new article 28a, is not acceptable because the directive is not being recast. such a clause would be difficult to reconcile with the relevant provisions of the parental leave directive, including the framework agreement between the social partners at european level on which it is based. moreover, the proposal raises problems of compatibility with the autonomy of the social partners and their role as laid down in articles 138 and 139 of the treaty. finally, the commission does not accept amendments aimed at prohibiting gender-based actuarial factors for the employment insurance scheme in article 8. these proposals also go beyond the process of applying the type of legislative proposal for the directive in question. this does not mean that this issue cannot be the subject of further political discussion, however contradictory the views on it may be, and the council's position is quite clear at this point. but i believe it's an important issue that needs to be addressed. moreover, the commission does not consider that the use of different schemes for second and third pillar pensions would at this stage cause any uncertainty, as was also mentioned in the debate, this is a different issue, not merely a purely technical one. in conclusion, on the basis of these considerations, the commission can accept a number of amendments, let me quote them, in their entirety. the commission may accept in full the amendments referred to in articles 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 83, 85, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 96, 101, 106, 107, 108 and 109, as amended by the council. the commission may accept in part amendments nos 5, 24, 71, 72, 73, 76, 84, 98, 102, 103, 104 and 105. the commission cannot accept, however, amendments nos 3, 12, 13, 29, 30, 36, 44, 46, 53, 63, 67, 81, 86, 94, 95, 97, 99 and 100, which are not covered by the contested decision. i explained the reasons for the commission's position in the previous text.
i'm sorry, but this is not a formal matter. that's a whole other matter, but i'm allowing the question. commissioner, please.
member of the commission. i think it is clear from this debate that the purpose of this directive is to improve the legislative and technical state of play of european union legislation. it is not a proposal to introduce profound and far-reaching changes. that is why the commission does not accept the two important proposals mentioned by mrs breyer. it is clear that this does not correspond to the concept of the process applied in this directive. the two questions you have mentioned are so important that i shall deal with them in my agenda, but i cannot give you the exact dates at this time. however, these are issues that we will be debating in the near future, and certainly the space will open up next week in the green paper on demographic ageing, but the way we reach our conclusions is completely open and it would be inappropriate to express ourselves in a more concrete way.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs wallis, drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii) (com (2003) 0427 - c5-0338/2003 - 2003/0168 (cod)) (a6-0211/2005)
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the commission has proposed a compensation initiative which has three objectives. the first objective is to determine solutions in advance and thus to provide legal certainty to citizens and economic operators who are victims of harmful actions. the second objective is to facilitate the settlement of disputes before the courts and to promote mutual recognition of judgments. the third objective is, of course, to facilitate the settlement of such disputes as much as possible. in order to achieve these objectives, we have proposed a general rule, namely the rule of the application of the place where the damage was caused, that is to say the place of direct damage. we have decided to adopt this approach because it is the most widespread solution in the member states' legal systems and also the most balanced solution between the parties in our view. the commission proposal also contained some special rules, such as liability for defective products or for damage to the environment. i believe that in these particular matters the general rule does not always allow a proper balance to be struck, and that special provisions are therefore needed. the initiative provides for a degree of flexibility for judges to allow them to take account of exceptional circumstances. however, this flexibility must be limited in order to avoid compromising the overall objective of legal certainty. in this respect, it is clear that a total discretion of the judiciary would make it difficult to pre-determine the legal certainty which is one of the main objectives of this initiative, since economic operators and citizens want to know in advance which law will be applicable to their situation. in the light of the above, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her high quality report, the result of very thorough consultation, and i would like to thank her for her determination to proceed swiftly so that the report can be adopted before the summer. the only problem, in my view, is the excessive flexibility afforded to judges in the rapporteur's amendments, in order to allow them to take account of particular circumstances on a case-by-case basis. this excessive discretion is likely to undermine the objective certainty of legal situations. we also have difficulty accepting amendments which abolish the special rules. i referred to liability for defective products, which provides for full consumer protection, or environmental liability. in my view, it would be dangerous to eliminate these special rules. i fully agree with the rapporteur's solution to sensitive issues such as defamation in the press and the relationship between private international law and the internal market. these are two very sensitive areas and i think the compromise reached is satisfactory. in conclusion, as regards road traffic damage, i would like to congratulate mr wallis once again on having thoroughly studied this matter of great practical importance to the citizens. the commission shares our intention to continue a very thorough analysis, for example in the context of the application of the so-called 'rome ii' programme.
draft opinion of the libe committee, drawn up by the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, like the commissioner, i would like to thank mrs wallis very warmly for her very insightful report and for the compromise she has made on many difficult issues. this regulation, although difficult and technical, represents another very important step in the creation of a coherent european civil law system, without which the functioning of the common market is much more difficult, a common market which is sometimes criticised as the basis of european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the libe committee, because of the short time-limit for its work and, above all, the scope of its competence, concentrated primarily on article 6 of that regulation. this article concerns the identification of the law applicable in the event of defamation of good name and reputation, i.e. the defamation of a person or company by a media publication, and the application of this law in any legal dispute. in the opinion of the libe committee, where i was rapporteur, we agreed that the european union must guarantee its citizens a high level of legal certainty. therefore, in the event of a breach of good repute or publicity, it is essential that the rights of the individual victim be protected first and foremost in the country where the damage has been caused. we have started from the assumption that there is no current threat to media freedom in europe, because these freedoms are protected by both the constitutional order of the member states and by the european courts. in addition, as a result of a compromise in the legal affairs committee, an amendment was tabled which, on the one hand, takes account of the libe commission's position and, on the other, creates a legal framework so precise that european publishers should feel satisfied. i support the amendment. this solution, especially in the context of the brussels i regulation, provides legal protection for publishers and guarantees that the rights of victims will be enforced.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the honourable members who have spoken. i would just like to refer to a point that has already been discussed. firstly, as i said earlier, the commission also believes that those special areas, such as environmental protection, deserve differential treatment, and so i would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to this. as regards defamation in the press, i would like to confirm my appreciation of the compromise which the rapporteur proposed to the commission and which the commission voted in favour of. as for the amendments tabled after the vote in the legal affairs committee, i believe that they run the risk of reproducing in reality a pure and simple variant of the principle of country of origin, that is to say a variant of a principle which, in my view, we cannot establish and decide on in this house. in conclusion, while confirming my appreciation for the first compromise reached and voted by the legal affairs committee, i must admit that i have some misgivings about the second amendment, namely amendments nos 56 and 57.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the commission statement on 'no-fly lists', i.e. passengers who are banned from boarding flights to the usa.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too will be extremely brief, but i think it is appropriate to make a few comments on certain points. in the context of the talks with the united states of america, the commission intends to ask for clarity in order to prevent the adoption of unilateral measures which may affect the interests of european citizens, and to require that such measures be agreed with the european institutions. i am referring in particular to the so-called no-fly list. we believe this is an important first step, as the no-fly list is currently the sole responsibility of the united states of america for flying over the territory of the united states of america only. as far as flights to and from europe are concerned, we will ask airlines for advance notice, so as to avoid the mistake made in the past of putting names on the no-fly list, causing a plane to be grounded simply because of a change of persons. with advance warning to airlines of the no-fly list data, these errors could be avoided. as regards the issue of safe flights mentioned by mr lambrinidis, we have already had a thorough discussion with the american air safety authorities. i am very pleased to announce that the american authorities have recently agreed to american airlines excluding citizens of european origin from the safe flight schedule. in other words, they undertake not to include any data indications of european citizens in experiments involving domestic flights in the united states of america. this is a guarantee given to us, and we intend to continue our discussion on this. we have not had the opportunity to hold this meeting earlier for technical reasons. however, a videoconference was held a few weeks ago and the dialogue will continue at the september meeting i announced earlier. for my part, i will be absolutely clear in demanding that the protection of personal data of european citizens be fully respected. i have already made this clear to secretary chertoff when we met in sheffield a few days ago and i will continue to do so.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the commission statement on the political situation and media independence in belarus.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking those of you who asked for an exchange of views with us on belarus. it is the third exchange of views on belarus since i became a commissioner. it is very important, because i share your concerns. i firmly believe that strengthening democracy and supporting independent information sources in belarus are of the utmost importance, especially in view of the forthcoming presidential elections. the european commission has a strong interest in belarus being a democratic and stable neighbour and hopefully, in the future, being able to benefit fully from the european neighbourhood policy. recent developments in belarus, however, have moved the country’s political system further away from a european democratic system and norms and values, preventing the country from taking its rightful place in the family of european nations. after the parliamentary elections and the referendum in belarus last year, which fell significantly short of international standards for democratic elections, in november 2004 the council of the european union confirmed the restrictions on ministerial-level contacts with the belarusian authorities. at the same time, the european union sent a very clear message to the population to tell them that we had not forgotten them and that we wanted to enhance contacts with civil society. the european union has consistently condemned the arrests and politically motivated trials of potential opponents to president lukashenko. we have called for respect for the rule of law and the immediate release of these people. we see these actions by the regime as attempts to eliminate opposition leaders, especially in the run-up to the presidential elections in 2006. the growing repression of political parties, non-governmental organisations and independent media outlets is of serious concern to us. we are also closely monitoring the human rights situation in belarus. as a clear signal that the european union cannot accept violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, last year we imposed a visa ban on certain high-ranking belarusian officials on the basis of council of europe findings. there was the pourgourides report on politically motivated disappearances. we then extended this visa ban to cover the officials considered responsible for rigged elections and also the rigged referendum, as well as those responsible for the repression of peaceful demonstrations. our grave concerns about the observance of trade union rights in belarus have led to an investigation into alleged violations of freedom of association and also the right to collective bargaining, as defined in the ilo conventions, especially within the framework of the gsp, the generalised system of preferences. the investigation might ultimately result in the withdrawal of belarus’s access to the benefits of the gsp. against the background of the worsening political situation in belarus, the european union remains very committed to assisting civil society and the people of belarus. here it must be said that the commission is a major donor to belarus and in the past few months we have also streamlined our assistance to the country. a workshop was organised in vilnius specifically to coordinate our assistance. this was very important, as it gave us the chance to intensify our coordination, not just amongst the member states but also with countries like the united states of america and canada. we have two objectives. one is to assist and support human rights, democratisation, civil society and democratic forces in the strict sense of the word. we pay special attention to support for the media, non-governmental organisations, the strengthening of democratic institutions and the rule of law. this is being done through the eidhr – the european initiative for democracy and human rights – and the decentralised cooperation instrument. two calls for tender were launched there in march and the project selection has already been completed. contracting will probably take place over the summer, so that the activities can start before the end of the year. there are 10 to 12 projects relating to education and advocacy ngos giving legal advice to people who have human rights problems. i hope that the results will be excellent. the second objective is to support the broader needs of the population in related areas. by broader needs, i mean the tacis programme that focuses on support for the population itself in different sectors, including good governance, sustainable development, the social sector, education, health, the environment and economic development, and also alleviation of the problems caused by the chernobyl catastrophe, which figures prominently on our assistance programme. the idea of supporting independent radio broadcasting to belarus has been suggested as an effective and useful response to the lack of alternative and independent information in belarus. we have studied the possibilities carefully and will see how that can be managed. under our current financial regulations it is not easy to find the right solution immediately. however, i can tell you that, as regards the difficulties journalists are facing in belarus, we have a key programme for training journalists and we have already been able to do a lot. we have provided support for the belarusian association of journalists, for which it is very grateful. for instance, we gave it our backing as the winner of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought in 2004.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has already adopted a fourth resolution on belarus, but this is the first to express its deep disappointment with the commission's attitude. we see from this perspective the parliament, an ally in the council, and we see the opponent, when it comes to the revision of the current policy towards belarus, in the commission. the council understands, and the commission does not understand, how to modify the existing tools to support civil society and the process of democratic transformation in this country. the signal sent by javier solana during the joint meeting with condoleezza rice in vilnius towards the democratic opposition in belarus is an important political signal. at the same time, the commission has fallen into a kind of vicious circle. the commission feels that something can be changed in belarus with the existing mechanisms and political tools, but it cannot. it's not because these tools are appropriate for a democratic country, or a country that has already begun a democratic transition. the tools you mentioned cannot help to initiate a democratic transformation in any country in the world. this threatens the political credibility of the european union. this threatens to continue to make political declarations go unheeded. meanwhile, in belarus, not for long, because next year, there will be a presidential election. we must help the belarusians make that choice. hence the tremendous importance of reliable, independent information delivered primarily by radio. i'll remind you that in poland, in lithuania, there are plans to create independent radio stations. they started out competing, but now they're complementary. that is why the resolution talks about a network of radio stations for belarus. these projects already have the support of national governments, but they should also have the support of the european union, and that has to change. because, as of now, the commission has been considering the possibility of such support for eight months. this can't go on. this draft resolution is about that problem.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what we're talking about is nothing more than a description of a kind of stagnation of the crisis. this crisis is reaching us, we are watching the demonstrations, we are watching the victims, the beaten people - these people go to jail later, we send out protests and wait for the next tv picture. it means that there's not much we can do, or at least, let's be honest, there's not much we can do. talking about the media today is just a fragment of the grim reality in belarus, because it affects every sphere of life. i warmly appeal on behalf of my political group that this resolution - which has been presented as a compromise and will see the light of day tomorrow - should inspire the commission to act. let us remember one more thing, and let us be honest with ourselves, despite this late hour and few people listening, the european union, all of us, the member states will be powerless, will be impotent as long as we talk to russia about belarus. we talk to russia about all sorts of things, mostly about gas and all sorts of nice business, but we don't talk to russia about how russia really accepts the situation in belarus. it's very convenient for russia, it's very convenient for president putin, that there's someone worse than him in this part of europe, that there's one regime that can be shown as this bad boy in europe. lukashenko is tolerated with everything he does, he is subsidized by cheap gas, by cheap oil and the european union agrees to it. at least let's say that this regime - lukashenko's regime - is comfortable for russia, and we agree with that. one khodorkovsky in prison is a small beer, it's a piece of cake compared to what's happening in belarus. we're ripping our clothes off, protesting in khodorkovsky, and not much is said about these anonymous victims of lukashenka. if we don't do something concrete with civil society, these people will lose what is most important to them - they will lose hope, and then it will be the real end.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in recent weeks, the lukashenko regime has added another to its list of practices - it has started playing the nationalist card against the polish community in belarus, which has lived there forever. the union of poles in belarus has been harassed since the election of the new democratic authorities, despite the fact that this organization keeps far from the internal politics of the country. the polish newspaper was closed down, and the official propaganda in the state media portrays the poles as people who are agents of foreign powers, funded by nato, cia, who are almost preparing a bloody uprising against the belarusian state. european policy should find some way of responding to all this. i think it would be worthwhile to think about having a greater dose of solidarity between countries at the intergovernmental level, solidarity in the european and transatlantic policy area as well. at the commission level, this policy should be directed towards very specific projects such as supporting independent media. commissioner, there is one thing i would like to mention specifically here: in this parliament's term of office there is certainly no understanding for the commission's passive and lax policy. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. you leave us no choice.
member of the commission. mr president, i think in fact we have no difference. it is a regime where freedom is being trodden on, so we have to do something, which i have explained three times already. it was the commission that agreed to go to lithuania with a few member states to work together and find the right strategies. the right strategies are there, the problem is our financial regulations. these financial regulations were introduced because parliament asked for them in the past. why? because there have been irregularities, but we are now very constrained. it is very difficult for me to go against the financial rules, which is why it takes a lot of time. i cannot just go and give money to any ngos. this has to be done according to the rules, and the rules are very difficult and strict. if we want to change the rules – and i would not mind starting to simplify them – then frankly i need parliament’s support, otherwise i cannot do anything. i do not wish to be accused of irregularities, as colleagues have been in the past. i am always flexible and open. i will look into the matter, but it takes a long time. it can take months to get things in place, but we will go in the right direction. i do not think it is correct to say that the council has different ideas. the council came after us. we started to work with a few member states and with many ngos, but the council is not responsible for implementation. implementation has to be done by us, according to the financial perspective and rules and according to our constraints. this is the real crux of the problem. you should know this; therefore i clearly and openly say so. it is also untrue to say that we are not communicating with russia on this issue. of course we are. the reality, however, is that russia has not changed anything up to the present time and it seems to be difficult for it to do so. but i completely agree – and we agreed at the seminar – that we should make moves towards the media and make direct contact with the society there; we should train journalists. we should also work via ukraine. we have been working with our polish and lithuanian friends, and we will also work a lot with ukrainians, as they have better access than us. it is true that lukashenko is now imposing stricter measures because he is fearful that movements could start similar to those in ukraine, georgia and kyrgyzstan. this is the reality of the situation but i cannot give you any more information at this stage. we are working on the implementation but unfortunately it takes more time than i would wish. in my former role as austrian foreign minister, i gave an instruction and the instruction was followed and perhaps within the next few months it was implemented. in the commission, it is more complex. we have to be very careful to ensure against any irregularities. but i am ready, if you are, to look into this situation.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the rules of origin in the system of trade preferences (com (2005) 0100 final) by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on foreign trade (b6-0329/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, i have taken note of the great interest expressed by parliament in the substantial review of the rules of origin launched by the commission. we clearly share the same objectives. while gsp rules of origin come first, the orientations of the commission communication will also inspire the definition of the revision of the rules of origin in other arrangements, in particular in the negotiations of the eu economic partnership agreements with the acp states. i would again insist on the fact that, while the formal involvement of your institution is based on the legal framework for the definition of rules of origin in the various preferential arrangements, i consider it extremely important that your committee be kept fully informed and have the opportunity to express its views on the charges to be introduced for the benefit of better market access and development. for products to be considered as sufficiently processed in a country on account of regional accumulation, it is none the less necessary to determine in which country of the region the product originates. it is essential because there can be developing countries in the same region which benefit from different preferential arrangements on the gsp, and diversion of those preferences should be avoided. for that purpose, an accumulation threshold will be fixed in order to decide whether the products originate in the country of final manufacture. this threshold should be lower than the threshold imposed on non-originating inputs in order to favour sourcing in the accumulation zone and, at the same time, high enough to avoid any diversion of preferences. the threshold will be more easily reached by the developing countries. reform of the rules of origin is of great importance for improving trade opportunities for the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries. we must ensure that we deliver our promises. as far as some other details of the questions are concerned, we will give a written answer.
i'm closing the debate.
mr. chairman, please! during the communist era in poland, a travel agency had a rumored advertising slogan: "visit the soviet union before the soviet union visits you". to paraphrase that joke, today we can say, let's take care of iraq before the iraqi terrorists take care of us. recently, the eu representative in afghanistan said that our political presence there and the considerable financial risk is necessary because the eu made a mistake in not taking any interest in the country in the 1990-2001 period. let's not make the same mistake with iraq, let's not leave iraq to the americans. i think the issue of europe's stabilizing role in this country and in this region will, and should, bring together both supporters and opponents of american intervention in iraq, including myself. we made a big mistake as the union in not sending observers to the elections in iraq in january 2005. the absent are not right, and the absent are not the ones who can influence the desired outcome. in closing, i would like to thank minister straw for meeting with me in london last thursday and to say that we have not changed the head of the commission since then, elmar brok is still the head.
mr. chairman, please! we are facing a difficult compromise, negotiated for weeks. i would like to appeal to all those in this room who are engaged in perpetual demagogy, for whom time stopped two years ago, who are still using the language of history, to lean over this compromise and ask themselves what is productive for the iraqis - this compromise or their perpetual demagogy? if they can't tell the difference between anonymous criminals who kill civilians and coalition soldiers who risk their lives over there in iraq, they're just liars. i object to that. two demands to the council and to the commission. first: we need to increase the pressure on iraq's neighbors, because what happened recently in iran (we were talking about syria here), these are phenomena for which these countries must feel responsible, they must feel the pressure of the international community and part of the responsibility for what is happening in iraq. they can't have an anonymous policy that sends the wrong message. secondly, the political dialogue that is being conducted with the iraqi political community must be intensified. it's these ethnic and religious divisions that are perpetuated in the transitional parliament, but we have to talk to these people. those who don't fight are our partners. finally, the idea of sending a peacekeeping force is beautiful, but naive. what army, what army is going to ride in blue helmets and protect the iraqis? it must be well-armed, well-trained iraqi troops, because they are the only ones who can protect the iraqi people.
mr. president, iraq is a battlefield with terrorists. the terrorists have made their goal clear: we will force international forces to withdraw from iraq, and then we will strangle the nascent democracy in that country. the world cannot afford to achieve these goals, these plans, and the countries of the european union cannot afford to have this scenario. the fight against terrorism is the global challenge facing our world in the early years of the 21st century, and it is a fight we must win because the enemy does not know the terms: agreement, agreement, compromise, dialogue, peace. modern terrorism is about destroying the civilization we live in. right now, the target is the united states, but in a few months, it'll be europe. the union must therefore decide to take joint, bold and concrete decisions, because the €200 million is no longer enough. the union must first of all respond to the basic problems of the population, namely: water shortages - 2 million people are without water; food shortages - according to the latest un report, one in four children go hungry; unemployment - 70%, insecurity and fear of terrorist attacks. saboteurs destroying pipelines and other oil facilities have cost iraq $11 billion in the past two years. these are the issues that should be on the list of priorities defining the objectives of the european union's support for iraq. it cannot be that the most spectacular effort on our part in the process of rebuilding iraq is the announcement of the opening of a european commission representation in baghdad, or the sending of an observation mission to the elections in december. the people of iraq are the ones who are most in need of this kind of concrete help. we need a bigger and more systematic engagement in iraq. we need a vision for a community of 25 countries. failure will cost us dearly. if the democratic forces fail, the terrorists will gain strength, and the consequences of this will be felt not only in iraq, but throughout the world, in the form of a new wave of terrorism. peace will be important for the development of transatlantic relations and for peace in the region as a whole. we need to put pressure on syria and iran to stop supporting terrorists in iraq.
mr. chairman, please! some journalists have made the ironic point that if politicians could end poverty, why haven't they done so? i don't think the topic of world poverty is a topic for jokes and looking for linguistic paradoxes. it can be said that the fight against world poverty is the measure of our humanity, of our european identity. one of the effects of the enlargement of the european union is that the number of countries involved in development cooperation has increased. the new member states of the union are becoming more active in the fight against poverty. under the hipc debt relief initiative, poland decided to cancel all debts to three countries, including two african countries: tanzania, mozambique and nicaragua. the total debt of these countries was over $53 million, and among poland's other debtors, sudan could be a potential beneficiary of the debt relief. i think that debt relief is particularly important for countries like mozambique, whose public budgets are entirely dependent on external aid. debt relief could be the beginning of a path that will allow africans to help themselves. richard mbewe, a zambian economist living in poland, says: "africans are not children, you can't give them fish, you have to give them fish sticks". the polish experience shows that effective and sustainable economic reform can only begin after political change. credit support for poland in the 1970s was largely wasted, and debt relief only made sense after the 1989 transition. that's why it's so important what both minister straw and commissioner michel said, that the most important thing for africa is to fight corruption and good governance. the second pillar, alongside development policy, is social understanding, and actions like "making poverty history" help to develop social awareness.
high isbo! last year, rich countries spent $80 billion on foreign aid, $600 billion on military spending, and $300 billion on subsidies for agriculture in their own countries. rich countries have all the means to cope with hunger, poverty, and many diseases, such as malaria, that now kill millions. development policy must become the european union's mission in the new global era, the identity of europe and the european union's identity in the modern world. the most important tasks now, especially for africa, are debt cancellation, increased foreign aid, fair trade, support for diversification of production and exports, eradication of diseases for which we have effective vaccines, universal education and equality, especially for women. i would like to quote nelson mandela in the european parliament today, who said that we should make poverty history in 2005. then we can all stand with our heads held high.
in writing. as one of the few meps i voted against the proposal to reject the draft so-called patentability of computer-implemented inventions directive. parliament was given the opportunity to express its views on the draft text through the codecision process. the almost unanimous decision of parliament to reject the project is just (not entirely responsible) decision avoidance. the broad coalition of mps was made up of very different factions. after much thought, i found myself in neither. the opponents of effective protection of intellectual property as such (the far left) voted against the directive. i'm not one of them. opponents of the european system of such protection (the far right) voted against. and i don't share that view. in many countries, it is expensive to register inventions. opponents of extending parliament's political influence over the legislative process (present in each club) voted against. i don't share that view. in the end, all those who considered that the draft directive threatened polish national interests (polish meps) voted against it. apart from the unlimited possibility of change, this is a false assumption. patent protection - broad or narrow - encourages private investment in innovation and hence the employment of researchers. europe has almost twice the rate of such expenditure as the usa. one important reason is the country's extensive patent protection, often cited as a bad example and a scarecrow in this debate.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the future of the balkans ten years after srebrenica.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i am delighted to be here at the european parliament at the start of the british presidency of the european union. the next six months will be a critical time for many of the western balkan states. as minister for europe, i am looking forward to pursuing the inherited agenda and working to help the countries of the region move further along the road to europe. next week – as recognised by the title of this debate – marks the tenth anniversary of the massacre at srebrenica in july 1995. seven to eight thousand muslim men and women were killed in cold blood in the worst act of genocide in europe since 1945. we recognise that the international community failed to realise what was happening until it was too late and failed in its duty to protect innocent civilians, unarmed men, women and children. however, whatever the sins of omission of the international community, which we deeply regret at this time of sadness and remembrance, let us not forget the sins of commission by the attacking bosnian serb forces. the ultimate responsibility lies with those who murdered, raped and tortured in cold blood. as we all know, some have already been tried and found guilty of their part in these atrocities, others have been acquitted. but those held most responsible – ratko mladic and radovan karadzic – are still at large as fugitives from justice. ten years on from this terrible event, it is surely time for the authorities in the region – in serbia and montenegro, in bosnia and herzegovina, and in croatia – to grasp the nettle and meet their international obligations to cooperate fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. but it is also time for them to honour their obligations to their people to remove the outstanding obstacles to them taking their rightful place within the european family of nations. i call upon all those in a position to make a difference to work together to remove this poison from the body politic, and to hand over all outstanding fugitives indicted for war crimes so that they may face justice in the hague. it is also a privilege, in taking over the european union presidency at this time, to be faced with so much hope and, indeed, opportunity. croatia is on the cusp of opening accession negotiations to become a full member of the european union, only ten years after the end of the war in 1995. as the european council has made clear on a number of occasions, it is zagreb’s responsibility to remove the one outstanding obstacle to these negotiations: the continuing failure to cooperate fully with the international criminal tribunal in the hague. as the european union presidency, we stand ready to open negotiations as soon as the council is satisfied that this obligation has been met. clearly, the easiest way to overcome this obstacle would be to arrest and hand over the fugitive ante gotovina. it would be a sign of our commitment to all the western balkan countries and to the thessaloniki commitments that they are all prospective candidates if we were able to open accession negotiations during our presidency. but the ball lies firmly in zagreb’s court. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has also made much progress since the outbreak of ethnic conflict in 2001. whilst there is still work to do to implement fully the terms of the ohrid framework agreement, later this year the commission will publish its opinion on the republic’s application to join the european union submitted last year. as with any other applicant, full compliance with the copenhagen criteria is a precondition. we look forward to assisting the authorities in skopje in making further progress on the terms of the stabilisation and association agreement, especially in targeting corruption and organised crime and implementing economic and judicial reform. the timing of opening negotiations will depend on the authorities’ commitment to tackling these issues in deed as well as in word. in albania, it would appear that the recent elections passed in a generally peaceful manner. while the count continues, we urge all political forces to respect the due electoral process and resist premature judgements on the outcome. nevertheless, we hope that a new government can be formed as soon as possible to ensure that albania can continue her progress towards a stabilisation and association agreement. in this respect, the new government will need to tackle the endemic problems of corruption and organised crime and implement judicial reform if it is to fulfil its european aspirations which we fully support. one of the greatest challenges we face, of course, is kosovo. the time is fast approaching when we should address the difficult and sensitive issue of kosovo’s final status. any outcome must work for all of kosovo’s communities an! d reinforce regional stability. that is why the contact group and the european union have both ruled out any return to the status quo ante-1999 or any internal partition of kosovo. neither would serve the interests of the people of kosovo or the region. as for independence, that is clearly one option. but i would remind those who advocate independence that they must convince all communities and the world at large that independence can work and that the rights of kosovo’s minorities as well as those who have yet to return to kosovo after the violence of 1999 will be fully respected. if the people of kosovo wish to join the european mainstream, they must learn to live together as equals, respecting their differences. the current comprehensive review of standards is therefore a critical challenge. how positive the review will be depends on progress on the ground. its outcome is not a foregone conclusion. i recognise that there has been real progress with standards implementation, but more needs to be done. a failure to demonstrate commitment for further work in key areas would not bode well for a positive outcome to the comprehensive review. the future is therefore in the hands of the kosovo authorities in pristina. in the meantime, the european union has an important role to play in supporting further progress, in particular in the area of economic development. serbia and montenegro have clearly made great strides in the last six months. in april, the european commission concluded a positive feasibility study recommending that the european union open negotiations with serbia and montenegro on the stabilisation and association agreement. the council of ministers has accepted this recommendation and invited the commission to prepare a negotiating mandate. this is an important step for serbia and montenegro’s progress towards european union integration. by 5 october, which marks the fifth anniversary of the democratic changes in belgrade, or by the tenth anniversary of the dayton-paris accords in november at the latest, we would like serbia and montenegro to have begun negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement. but cooperation with the international criminal tribunal must continue to improve and in this respect mladic and karadzic are key, all the more so in light of the anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, which we will commemorate next week. i would also like to underline the importance of dialogue between belgrade and pristina in the interests of all the people of kosovo. only through participation in the democratic institutions of government can kosovar serbs ensure that their concerns are taken into account. we have welcomed belgrade’s decision to encourage the kosovar serbs to participate in the decentralisation working groups and look to belgrade to carry this through. bosnia and herzegovina have also recently made important progress towards the opening of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. this prize is within bosnia and herzegovina’s grasp but will remain out of reach until it has met the relevant conditions, which include agreeing on police restructuring, reforming public broadcasting and demonstrating full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. we would like bosnia and herzegovina to open saa negotiations under our presidency by the tenth anniversary of the dayton-paris peace agreement, but that requires further progress by the bosnian authorities to meet the feasibility study priorities. i have attempted today to summarise the present situation regarding our priorities for the western balkan countries over the next six months. there are certainly big challenges ahead, but let me end on a note of optimism. in the last ten years so much has changed for the better: free and fair elections have been held throughout the region; changes of government via the ballot box are routine; large-scale conflict no longer threatens; countries of the region work together to improve the lives of their citizens. the european union and other international partners are united in working with the region to maintain stability and create prosperity. the dark days of the early 1990s seem predominantly to be a distant memory. but as we move further down the road to closer integration between the western balkan countries and the european union, it is up to the countries concerned to make their cases irrefutable. we understand that the european union’s commitment to the regions has to be honoured and we undertake to do so. but during this time of introspection within the european union and of uncertainty about its future shape and direction, it is all the more important that the countries of the region fulfil their own commitments, not in the interests of the european union – although that is important – but for the sake of their people who for far too long suffered at the hands of those who claimed to represent their interests but who in fact only fomented hostility and strife. (applause)
thank you, minister. i should like to congratulate you on winning the contest for hosting the olympic games. i hope – and i am sure everybody here feels the same – that it will be not only a world event, a british event, but also a european event.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on the future of the balkans is taking place in the shadow of the tenth anniversary of the srebrenica massacre - the worst atrocity in europe since the end of world war ii. the wars and massacres in the balkans were certainly partly caused by the european union and nato not being very active in the region. european structures have behaved like pontius pilate, who simply washed his hands of responsibility. it is good that this is changing, it is good that bulgaria and romania are joining the union in a year and a half, it is good that the union's military and police forces are stabilising the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, as i had the opportunity to observe in person in april this year. i returned yesterday from albania, where i was an observer in the parliamentary elections, and i must say that these elections are a step forward. it was more democratic than the elections that had taken place in this country before. this progress is to be noted. of course there are still questions and question marks - there are many - about what is going on with solana, the country named after mr solana, serbia and montenegro in a situation where montenegro wants its own independent state entity. one thing is certain - despite the crisis in the european union - we are attractive to these countries. although it is not fashionable to talk about enlargement of the european union today, it must be said clearly that it would be good if some balkan countries joined the union. only this can ensure the economic and political stability of the region, which will be worthwhile for us as a union in the future. in conclusion, it costs more to extinguish fires in the balkans than to prevent them.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, thank you for your gracious words of congratulation on london’s olympic bid. i would have been delighted if any european city had been successful in singapore today, but i am particularly delighted that london has secured this. i hope that the 2012 games will be a great european success. i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament and the european commission for their contributions to what has proved to be an insightful and wise debate this afternoon. it is clear that there is a real commitment by all of you to support the european aspirations of the western balkan countries. we certainly aim during our presidency to work towards bringing the region within the european family of nations and will be working assiduously to achieve that. we are conscious of the many challenges ahead, but we are committed to working together to overcome them. i shall respond to some of the main points that have been raised by members on both past and future issues. mrs pack spoke powerfully on the need for reconciliation. i recognise the need for a wider recognition of responsibility and this was a subject that i discussed only last week with the reis-ul-ulema, the grand mufti of bosnia, who has been leading efforts to achieve exactly this reconciliation within and between communities in the regions. mr swoboda rightly recognised the need for countries to have opportunities to right past wrongs. that is certainly true but, as mrs neyts-uyttebroeck reflected, it is necessary for all the countries in the region to cooperate fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. mr cohn-bendit spoke of the dayton accords and urged the international community to now take the initiative. whilst listening with care to the points that he made, i would respectfully remind him that only the three constituent communities of bosnia can make changes to the constitution. mr czarnecki questioned the european union’s policy towards serbia and montenegro. the serbia-montenegro state union is a loose federal arrangement, created in 2003 largely through the initiative of javier solana. under the terms of the state union constitutional charter, either republic can hold a referendum on withdrawal after february 2006. it is looking increasingly likely that montenegro will seek to dissolve the union in 2006. the european union continues to support the state union as the best means of promoting stability and ensuring faster progress towards euro-atlantic integration. however, the european union recognises the terms of the constitutional charter, which allows for a referendum to be held after three years and emphasises the need for any dissolution to be constitutional, consensual, negotiated and transparent. mr papastamkos spoke of the need for a clear regional approach, so let me say a further word about the european union’s priorities for the western balkans during the united kingdom’s presidency. during the next six months, a number of key issues will come to a head. the commission will publish its opinion on macedonia, lord ashdown’s mandate in bosnia will come to an end and a positive assessment of standards implementation in kosovo could lead to a process to determine kosovo’s final status, a process in which the european union will have a key role to play. across the range of western balkan issues, the presidency will help the region make progress towards european standards and values. the presidency will continue to drive forward the european union’s stabilisation and association process, designed to build stability and prosperity in the western balkans and guide these countries towards eventual european union membership. the progress of each country within the stabilisation and association process will be judged against established political criteria. full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal, as i have already mentioned, remains a key political requirement. mr posselt raised the issue of croatia. as a proud scotsman, i do not want to disabuse him of his apparent certainty that the loch ness monster exists, or to dissuade him from the opportunity of visiting scotland to continue the search, but let me make a deadly serious point to him. the european union has made it clear that it stands ready to open accession negotiations as soon as there is full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. we hope this will happen during the uk presidency, but it is ultimately up to croatia to take the necessary steps to ensure full cooperation. the easiest way for croatia to address doubts about croatia’s commitment to icty is to cooperate in locating and detaining ante gotovina. mr beglitis raised the question of how european union help to bosnia-herzegovina in implementing the reforms necessary for european union integration can be taken forward. the european union is providing a range of instruments to help the authorities carry out the necessary reforms. the european union police mission aims to help the bosnian police force reach european standards. it focuses on police reform through the monitoring and mentoring of middle-ranking to senior officers in the police force. the eu cards programme also supports reforms for european union integration. the european union special representative and high representative, lord paddy ashdown, plays a coordinating role between the different european union presences and has played a leading role in encouraging the bosnian authorities to take the reform agenda forward. i pay tribute to his work today. his mission implementation plan closely reflects the 16 priority areas identified in the european union feasibility study published in november 2003. in addition to the terrible anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, which has been mentioned by so many speakers today and which we will commemorate next week, this year will also mark the tenth anniversary of the dayton accords, as was also mentioned in passing by at least a couple of speakers, and the end to the conflict in bosnia-herzegovina. i believe that the next six months therefore offer an historic opportunity for these countries to demonstrate their wholehearted commitment to european values, to tolerance and the rule of law, to good neighbourly relations and to the difficult but very serious process of reconciliation, which a number of speakers have talked about today. none of this will be easy. each country will face particular and different challenges, but i encourage them to work jointly and to encourage each other on this path. in this respect, i echo the sentiments expressed by commissioner rehn. i cannot stress too highly the importance of full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. handing over the last remaining indictees for trial in the hague, notably karadzic, mladic and gotovina, is not just an obscure european union condition, but is required under several united nations security council resolutions. this will not only transform the nature of these countries’ relations with the european union but will also serve to transform their societies and contribute to the long-term process of rehabilitation that has been spoken about so convincingly today. in that respect the joint statement by the presidents of the dayton signatories issued following the recent meeting of the mount igman initiative in belgrade was a welcome step. it will contribute to the normalisation of relations between those three countries. it represents an excellent basis for further work and we look forward to the implementation of the important commitments it contains. the forthcoming tenth anniversary of the srebrenica massacre is a vivid reminder of how far the balkans have come, but also of how much remains to be done. thankfully armed conflict is and must remain a thing of the past although, as mrs ibrisagic reminded us, recent discoveries of explosives have shown that there are still those minded to advance their cause by violence. the european union has recognised the region’s aspirations to join the european family once conditions have been met, but corruption and organised crime are still far too prevalent and economic growth is lacklustre. but whilst we stand ready to help, the answer to these challenges lies not in brussels, the hague, london or, with the greatest of respect, strasbourg. it lies within the region and within the people whose energy and talents have outlived the years of conflict and it depends on their willingness to demand that their decency, hope and integrity are fully reflected. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, after president chirac’s ill-informed views on british and finnish cuisine, i feel free to congratulate london as the european city for the venue of the 2012 olympic games. j’aime la france, mais ce n’est pas facile toujours. i thank the honourable members for a dignified and substantive debate that fully respects our duty to remember and draw conclusions for the present and the future. there was a wide convergence of views on a number of issues. first of all, on the country’s need to cooperate fully with the hague tribunal. clearly there is no lasting peace without historical truth and justice. we have to learn from what happened so that history does not repeat itself. i also note wide support for the continuation of our prudently managed accession process, combining the historic mission of european integration for peace, democracy and progress with consideration for our citizens’ legitimate concerns about the absorption capacity of the union. we therefore have to practice strict conditionality in our enlargement policy. the future of the western balkans is clearly in the european union. it is fair to say that the european perspective is the glue that keeps the western balkans on a peaceful and stable track. so is the future of bosnia and herzegovina in the european union. the dayton accord managed to put an end to the war, but i agree with mr cohn-bendit that it is certainly not an ideal constitution on which to build a properly functioning, multi-ethnic modern state. therefore it is important that bosnia and herzegovina can itself reflect on the constitutional changes that can serve the country and its people better than the current construct. it is up to the people of bosnia and herzegovina and their representatives to play a key role in this exercise. in my view, it would not be useful or appropriate for the international community to force yet another blueprint upon its citizens. we need consensus and a consensus-building political process in bosnia and herzegovina to achieve that objective. i can assure you that the commission will play an active role in the region in order to sustain hopes for its future in europe. i very much look forward to working together with the european parliament and the presidency to achieve that objective. (applause)
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the announcement by the people's republic of china of the so-called 'anti-secession law' is a key moment for security in the far east region. the people's republic of china, by passing a law that is blatantly contrary to international law, has shown the world that with the marketization of parts of the economy and the opening of the western world to china, there is no much-needed easing of the regime in beijing. china, knowing that the taiwanese will never agree to unification voluntarily, is preparing to launch an armed attack on this democratic and prosperous country. it is only up to us to decide how this process ends, which began with the military budget, and then followed by this outrageous law, which is now being applied to 600 ballistic missiles aimed at taiwan. we already know some of the european reactions. at the same time as china is making its provocation, the president of france, the country with the largest trade balance with china of any european country, declares that the arms embargo on china is no longer meaningful and is an expression of hostility. he's second in command to the chancellor of germany. that's the worst possible answer. if we follow this advice, we can arm a country that has no qualms about aggressive intentions towards its neighbours. europe needs a different response to the so-called 'anti-secessionist system'. it needs to maintain the embargo and to strengthen the active policy of supporting taiwan's international position in close cooperation with the united states. the status quo we've been trying to defend has been challenged. it was unilaterally challenged by the people's republic of china. listening to this debate, i'll allow myself one more, perhaps a little bit of a humorous observation. if we had a europe-wide ban on praising totalitarian regimes, i have the impression that post-communist meps would not have been released from prison for a single day and we would have a parliament with fewer than 50 members.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, let me begin by thanking the honourable members for their wide-ranging and thoughtful contributions to this important and timely debate. i also thank the commissioner for her generous welcome in this parliament today. i also look forward to our many debates over the weeks and months to come. let me respond first to some of the main points raised during the last hour. mr jarzembowski spoke of the importance of the recent eu-japan meeting. we clearly welcome and will work towards strong relations with japan, and, of course, with china. he spoke wisely of the need for continued understanding and reconciliation within the region. mr ford recognised the interdependence that is surely one of the hallmarks of our globalising world. he also raised the issue of the arms embargo, as did a number of speakers, including mr szent-iványi, mr romeva i rueda, mr belder and mr kristovskis. let me, therefore, take a moment or two to address the queries that have been raised. as members are aware, a review of the european union arms embargo was, of course, announced by the european council in december 2003 and is presently ongoing. in june, the european council also recalled its conclusions of 16 and 17 december 2004 and invited the council to continue its work on that basis. no date was set for a decision. the council also welcomed the launch of a strategic dialogue on asia with the united states and japan. we look forward in the course of our presidency to taking this forward. no decision has yet been taken on lifting the eu arms embargo in china. the review launched in december 2003 is, as i have said, ongoing. in its conclusions in december 2004, the council recalled the importance of the criteria of the code of conduct, which have been referred to by a number of members today, including the provisions regarding human rights, stability and security in the region and the national security of friendly and allied countries. mr szent-iványi also raised the issue of the european union’s position on taiwan’s participation in the world health organisation. there are difficulties over taiwanese membership of the world health organisation. the who is a united nations specialised agency where statehood is therefore a prerequisite of membership. the public health benefits to taiwan from observer status appear limited, since the world health organisation and taiwan already share information on an informal basis. the european union made its position public on taiwanese participation at the 2004 world health assembly. ireland issued an eu presidency statement that strongly supported the principle enshrined in the who constitution that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being. it also expressed hopes that all parties will show flexibility in finding mechanisms to allow taiwanese medical and public health officials to participate ! in these activities. at this year’s world health assembly, the issue did not come up for vote in the general committee, but we understand that the who secretariat and china recently signed a memorandum of understanding on who technical exchanges with taiwan. mr meijer offered his own distinctive views on chiang kai-shek and on his successors in taiwan. i would simply reiterate the point i made in my introductory remarks that today taiwan is, of course, a full democracy. mr szymański and mrs dobolyi spoke of the anti-secession law recently passed by china. so let me say a further word on china-taiwan relations and cross-strait tension. the european union and the council attach great importance to peace and stability in the taiwan strait, which is important for the whole region and indeed beyond. the taiwan question should be settled peacefully, as i said, through peaceful negotiations. we welcome any efforts by both sides to lower tensions, such as, as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, the cross-strait charter flights and visits by taiwanese opposition parties. we hope that both sides can find a mutually acceptable basis for a resumption of peaceful dialogue and avoid unilateral measures, which might heighten tensions. luxembourg issued two presidency statements this year on cross-strait relations. in february, a statement was issued welcoming the agreement to cross-strait direct charter transfer flights over the lunar new year. the second statement issued in march by the luxembourg presidency followed china’s adoption of its anti-secession law, which has caused so much commentary in the course of our debate this afternoon. that statement voiced concerns over the legislation’s reference to the use of non-peaceful means. it asked all parties to avoid any unilateral action that might rekindle tensions and also encouraged both sides to develop initiatives that contribute to dialogue and to mutual understanding. in his meeting with chinese foreign minister li on 17 march, almost immediately after the passage of the law, the high representative, javier solana, expressed the european union’s concerns about some elements of the anti-secession law. he acknowledged positive elements in the law, strongly supporting the call for cross-strait dialogue and cooperation, but made clear that references to a potential resolution of the issue by non-peaceful means was very much at odds with european union policy. he clarified once again the position of the eu: first, full support for a one-china policy and, secondly, resolution of the situation through dialogue and peaceful means. mrs stenzel told us of her mission departing for the korean peninsula tomorrow and this was also referred to by mr mavrommatis. i wish her and her colleagues well in this important work and i look forward to hearing a full report of her endeavours on her return. mr rouček mentioned the criticism sometimes directed at the european union that it is too inward looking. i would simply say that those who make that criticism would have done well to listen to the calibre and contributions of the debate we have had this afternoon. i therefore welcome his endorsement of our approach, which recognises that europe must look outwards and actively engage with the challenges and also the opportunities that our modern globalising world provides. mr kristovskis and mr claeys appropriately raised the issue of human rights in china. i can assure both members that the european union raises a lot of human rights concerns with the chinese government at the biannual european union-china human rights dialogue, which is a regular high-level exchange. the last round was held in luxembourg in february. the next round will take place in beijing this autumn. the european union also regularly engages chinese interlocutors on human rights issues, including at the very highest levels outside these dialogues. the european union also funds human rights projects within china. let me say a word or two in conclusion. the chinese presently have a target to reach per capita income comparable to that of today’s developed countries by about 2050. the significant development of economic strength was really the opening framework with which i approached this debate. that was echoed by the words of the commissioner immediately following my contribution. whether it reaches that ambitious target or not, the development of its economic and trade ties is already all but irreversible. china is also accepting the responsibility that economic strength brings. it has more influence on the world stage in such fora as the wto, the g8 and the united nations. this is all to the good. many of the problems we face today, such as climate change, which will clearly be one of the significant items being discussed in gleneagles over the days to come, can only be solved through action by all. the council has a close interest in supporting china’s successful transition to a stable, prosperous and open country that fully embraces free market principles and the rule of law. for this reason, the european union has a policy of strong engagement with china. this engagement is mutually beneficial and is not confined solely to matters of trade. the european galileo programme will provide high precision global satellite navigation services, an area in which china is keen to develop links with the european union. a cooperation agreement was concluded in october 2003, under which china has pledged to contribute eur 200 million to this programme. of course, we do not imagine that there will not be disagreements or that there will not be differences of opinion. we trust that our relationship with china is strong enough for us to be able to meet to address these challenges in the weeks, months and years ahead.
member of the commission. mr president, a lot has been said in this very interesting debate. i thank all members for their interesting contributions. they have concentrated on a few topics. with regard to the arms embargo, my colleague has said almost everything. i should just like to answer mr jarzembowski, confirming that we are aiming at a legally binding code of conduct. it will depend on the member states, but that is our aim. with regard to human rights, it was said by a few members that we have not mentioned human rights. that is simply not true. on the contrary, human rights feature in all our political dialogues and great significance is attached to them. i recently met with foreign minister li and i was also involved in a troika in china. the main topic there, apart from the arms embargo and some trade issues, was the human rights issue. we clearly said – and this went on record – that the chinese should go on, for instance, with the international covenant on civil and political rights and with releasing prisoners incarcerated after the tiananmen square protests. we have a human rights dialogue at least, where these issues can be clearly talked through and then, hopefully, taken up by the chinese. i would also like to mention taiwan. the european union has advocated – and this is a unanimous policy – the one-china policy, which means that we do not recognise taiwan as a sovereign state and we have no diplomatic or formal political relations with taiwan. nevertheless, we have cultural and economic relations with taiwan. therefore, it is not for us politicians but for high officials to go to taiwan, where they hold exchanges of views. we also do not support taiwan's efforts to become a member in international fora because, if such membership implies statehood, that is not possible according to the consequent policy that we have. taiwan was able, by contrast, to join the world trade organization because the wto supposes that each member is a separate customs territory, thus making taiwan's membership possible. with regard to the china-taiwan question, the eu has been very explicit with both sides, consistently insisting on a peaceful resolution through dialogue, as i mentioned. we were indeed very pleased, and said as much, when opposition politicians went there. we said that we encouraged them to do such things with all other politicians. the whole question of the united nations, of multilateral diplomacy, is very important. we stand before a reform of the united nations. china will have a very important say there. we would like to work in a very constructive way. i should like to pay tribute to mrs stenzel and other colleagues for this interesting mission to the dprk. it would be in all our interests if the six-party talks were resumed. if needed, we are always standing ready. there is no need for the european union to come in, but if there is a need – we have always mentioned that to all the parties – then certainly we would be prepared and ready. i thank you for this highly satisfactory discussion. we must accept a china that will rise with or without us. therefore, we must focus all our interests in shaping that rise to ensure that china emerges as an open society committed to the rule of law at home and abroad and also as a power that acts responsibly regionally and with regard to global security and, hopefully, in the future, democratically. it is now at a critical place in the global supply chain, meaning that the significant eu business and consumer interests also need to be consolidated and advanced. we need to influence the reform process in all areas of society and the economy. we try to do that in our bilateral talks, in our troika talks, within the framework of the different international organisations, or at the united nations. (applause)
the security of the far east is important. it is especially important for those who experience a lack of security on a daily basis. imagine how the people of north korea feel, being held captive by their communist rulers. how do the taiwanese feel when they have to confront their daily lives with the so-called anti-secessionist tendencies of the prc? how do tibetans feel about being a minority in their own country? it is our duty to support those in danger. the one-china principle is acceptable, but it is acceptable as long as its application does not violate another principle - the principle of self-determination of the people of taiwan. the one-china policy cannot lead to the people of taiwan being the victims of its application. the prc is an economic tiger, but unfortunately it is not a democracy tiger. the commission also found that the goc had not provided any evidence that the goc had not provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence that the goc had provided any evidence. but as long as human rights are not respected there, the prc's pressure on taiwan cannot be accepted. europe has managed to overcome the political consequences of the cold war. asia has not been able to overcome the political, economic and social consequences of the real war, the korean war. there's some debate about whether north korea lost the war or not. what is certain is that it was lost by ordinary people. people who have the right to live normally, not in the scenes of communist totalitarianism.
president-in-office of the council. i would simply make a couple of points. first, i am unaware of the disparity of which the honourable member speaks, but if there are issues of factual disagreement between us then i would be happy to receive representations in that regard. the other point i would make is the basic one that community law does not apply to broadcasts intended exclusively for reception in third countries and that is also a factor in our discussions.
madam president, mr. minister, i have to go. spain did not really solve this problem until last week, but france has not yet. mrs ries is absolutely right on this point, and there is therefore a question of putting pressure on the french authorities, but above all on the authorities of saudi arabia and egypt, as mr charles tannock rightly said here a moment ago. this is also, i think, a diplomatic matter for the council. mr. secretary, i wish you every success in your new position, and in light of the fact that scotland will not be going to the world cup, i think that coach bertie vogts should be fired.
president-in-office of the council. in its conclusions on cuba, which were adopted on 13 june 2005, the council drew on the 1996 common position, the relevance and validity of which it reaffirms. consequently, the european union aims to encourage a process of transition to pluralist democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and sustainable recovery and improvement in the living standards of the cuban people. this approach has never been called into question by any of the member states. the council has taken a firm position, especially in relation to the human rights situation which, according to these conclusions, should be raised at every high-level visit. this council has also expressed regret at the lack of any further advance since the release of several political prisoners imprisoned in march 2003. it has, in particular, condemned the action taken by the cuban authorities to curb freedom of expression, assembly, and freedom of the press. furthermore, the council has categorically condemned cuba’s unacceptable attitude to foreign parliamentarians and journalists who attended the assembly to promote civil society, on 20 may 2005, and were either expelled or denied entry into cuba. moreover, closer relations with the peaceful political opposition and with broader sectors of cuban civil society through intense and regular dialogue decided at the end of january have produced satisfying results. the council decided to maintain this dialogue and indeed intensify it according to the agreed guidelines. these meetings of representatives of the european union and of the member states with the peaceful opposition will continue to take place. the council has decided to reconsider its position in the context of evaluation of the common position in june 2006.
the writer's assistant. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to ask the council representative what specific action the council intends to take. the fact is that cuban prisoners are still prisoners of the opposition, sentenced to long prison terms. the european council calls for the lifting of sanctions against the castro regime, while the european union should put human rights at the heart of its international policy. isn't it time to change tactics against fidel castro's regime and not just follow the policies of zapatero and madrid on this issue?
mr. chairman, please! the proposed life+ merger of existing environmental support programmes into one financial instrument is justified as a safeguard against duplication of effort. the aim is also to harmonise and simplify rules and procedures. the life+ programme is intended to provide funding for actions that cannot be supported by other european union financial instruments. this is a fully justified approach in the context of the current environmental challenges. however, the key problem in the context of life+ is to provide co-financing for the creation and implementation of the natura 2000 network. the protection of nature and biodiversity, including natura 2000, is included in the priorities of the programme, but it is emphasised that the co-financing of natura 2000 is intended to be complementary in nature, i.e. support is to be provided under the european fund for rural development and the cohesion fund. i am concerned that the development of the natura 2000 concept in europe is not accompanied by adequate financial security for the construction and maintenance of this network. the lack of clear rules on how to raise funds for natura 2000 conservation activities for the period 2007-2013 will certainly lead to funding gaps in the network, with the result that many of the necessary conservation activities will not be able to be carried out. for example, in poland and other countries, most of the areas designated as natura 2000 sites are not eligible for funding, such as areas owned by state forests or areas not used for agriculture: peatlands, marshes, natural bogs, dunes, moors, scrub. providing separate funding for the creation of the natura 2000 network is of particular importance for poland and other countries in the context of the letter from the european commission of 6 january 2005, in which a suggestion was made to consider the possibility of extending the list of natura 2000 sites in poland. as a result, my country could be covered by as much as 20% of the natura 2000 network.
mr. chairman, please! the life+ regulation is an excellent legal construction. as a regulation, it will apply to all member states and will have more force than directives addressed to them. the weakness of this structure is that it is indicative in its priorities. we don't know which ones and how much they'll be funded. this is particularly true of the nature 2000 issue at issue here. it is a misunderstanding, commissioner, to see this programme as a competitor to the structural funds, to the rural development funds. we cannot operate in such a way that we have a dirty battle, a dirty battle between the needs of local communities, between the protection of the environment, rare species of animals and plants, and the needs of the people who live and work in a particular area. it's not supposed to be like this. the second case concerns the financing of nature 2000. i read in the commission's communication that the cost is estimated at eur 6.1 million. it's not much - i'm aware of that. this is the bare minimum. five million of this sum is to go to the 15 old eu members and only one million to the 10 new member states. is this ratio right? do you not think that this allocation of funds is in keeping with the principle of european solidarity?
the report is too soft and late in the face of china's expansion into the european market. it is the future of 170 000 companies and 2.5 million people employed in europe and a market worth 185 billion euro. the best example of bad decisions is the us, which lost 65% of its market share to china after two years, when it abandoned quota controls in 2002. the chinese problem is not just cheap clothing imports, but also unfair practices: government subsidies, tax breaks, land grants, energy subsidies and transportation subsidies. to stop china and keep jobs in europe, extraordinary wto sessions should be convened to discuss how to prevent a takeover of world trade by a single supplier; the contingency regime provided for in the guidelines for the application of safeguard clauses should be activated; a new programme with a guarantee of funds should be created to support regions where the sector absorbs surplus labour and prevents the professional degradation of women; funds should be made available in the new perspective for restructuring and in fp7 for new solutions and the implementation of research results in smes; the objective of european policy should be to modernise industry - otherwise the ept would remain a dead letter; governments of countries where industry is fragmented should be exempted from subsidisation; the development of a study of the impact of the implementation of reach is necessary to ensure that the european industrial market does not become a platform for the creation of a european industrial market.
mr. chairman, please! as a representative of a new member state where the agricultural sector is the key to a large population and where low subsidies to agriculture are a painful reality, i am pleased to note the existence of this specific community initiative to support agriculture in geographically remote regions with limited access to the common market. an interesting part of this report seems to be the concern for the preservation of traditional crops characteristic of the area and the idea of exporting products bearing the eu special mark to the whole of the european union. we should particularly support local, non-industrial production in the union, which produces products with better flavours. cheaper exports to neighbouring third countries also appear to be a good idea for helping peripheral regions, and an idea worthy of emulation throughout the community, including in the new member states traditionally linked to their non-eu neighbours. this would solve the problem of the poor areas of the eastern part of the union, including poland, bordering belarus, russia and ukraine, whose economies have suffered as a result of the restrictions on trade with these countries.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions to the debate. let me respond to a number of important points that have been raised. first of all, i would like to reiterate that the main purpose of this fundamental change is to give member states greater flexibility to take better account of the needs of the outermost regions. as regards the reference period, and i refer in this connection to the speeches by mr freitas and mr fernandes, some of you are calling for a flexible period for the calculation of the financial ceilings applicable to the specific supply arrangements. i think i can say that the commission has made a considerable effort to ensure that the new aid scheme is favourable to the outermost regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal is a package: we cannot extract the good provisions and ask for a review of those which are considered less favourable. i would like to draw your attention to this aspect of my reply. the financial envelopes were calculated on a basis favourable to these regions, in particular because the ceilings for aid to local production were taken into account and not the historical figures. the commission is not prepared to change its proposal on these financial ceilings. as regards the limitation of the specific supply arrangements to agricultural products, both mr freitas and mr casaca have spoken on this point. the commission also wishes to provide a clearer framework for the posei measures. for this reason, the new regime concerns only agricultural products, which are listed in annex i to the treaty. the unsatisfactory situations of the past regarding the management of posei measures should be put to an end. the commission proposes transitional periods to enable the various sectors to adapt to the new situation. the azores and sinaga were also discussed. this issue, raised by mr freitas and mr fernandes, concerns the specific problems of the azores, in particular the sinaga sugar factory. the draft council regulation does not contain any new provisions concerning exports and shipments of products which have benefited from the specific supply arrangements. since 1992, the commission has applied the same criteria for all the outermost regions, i.e. the average of trade flows during the period 1989-1991. this approach was confirmed by the european court of justice in the sinaga case. we have to call him back. the possibilities for financial aid for sugar production in the azores have been considerably strengthened in the draft council regulation. the proposal provides for a financial envelope for aid to local production, calculated on the basis of the potential for developing sugar production within the framework of production quotas, of almost eur 4 million per year, instead of the current actual production of eur 400 million per year. on the basis of this generous envelope and within the framework of the wide margin of flexibility left to member states in choosing the sectors to be subsidised, it is for the national authorities to decide to increase the aid to sugar production and to the specified sugar factory, if they so wish, after consulting all interested parties. the commission is convinced that these new rules will improve the framework for these schemes, first and foremost in the interests of the outermost regions.
today's debate on supporting agriculture in the eu's peripheral regions is a good illustration of the dual implementation of the common agricultural policy. the european union has a different attitude towards the old members and a different attitude towards the new members. the material situation of farmers in the peripheral regions of the eu is certainly difficult. but the situation of the 3.6 million farmers in the new member states is even more difficult. farmers in peripheral regions have been benefiting fully from the benefits of the common agricultural policy for many years. farmers in the new member states, on the other hand, have been graciously 'granted' a dramatically low level of direct payments, which leaves no chance of equalising the material level between farmers in the new and old member states. these decisions had no economic or social justification, let alone ethical. they pose serious threats to european food security, to the stability of the agri-food market in the european union and are the source of serious social tensions. discrimination against farmers in the new member states continues. the arguments and expertise presented were found to be irrelevant to the eu enablers. the scale of the expected support, too. it is enough to be a farmer from a new member state to be denied the most justified support, under the pretext of not meeting the numerous brussels conditions. let's put a dam on this discrimination. let's start today with a small case of support for the peripheral regions of the eu. let's not authorize this backup. let this be a warning to the enemies of a europe of unity and solidarity that solidarity can only be achieved if we are first and foremost solidarity itself.
mr. chairman, please! zimbabwe was once one of the richest countries in africa, exporting food and supporting other poorer african countries. today it's a weak and poor country, and its dictator is a big man for small business, unfortunately business and dirty and bloody. the draft resolution contains a very important idea and the authors deserve credit for it. even increasing aid to africa, including zimbabwe, will not really help much if that aid is not accompanied by good governance, respect for human rights and african solidarity, but not the solidarity of dictators, but solidarity in defending democracy, solidarity of societies. we are talking about zimbabwe today, but let's also talk about brussels. our parliament has been monitoring the council on this for a long time. but the council is deaf and blind. an example is the polish saying: "he spoke to the painting, and the painting to him not once". it's just that this silent council is a very ugly picture. it's time to think seriously about real, full sanctions. it is time to think about the boycott of zimbabwe by african countries and to do this the european union together with the usa and the commonwealth countries should exert some diplomatic pressure on african countries. the council can't be like an ostrich that buries its head in the sand and pretends it's okay.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation of human rights violations and the illegal trafficking of children in guatemala is unacceptable to the international community. although the civil war ended seven years ago, the climate of violence and intimidation continues, with children and youths increasingly becoming the victims. the main problem that the international community needs to address is the impunity of organized crime groups, as the guatemalan authorities are not sufficiently committed or simply unable to deal with them. in the last decade, the illegal trade in children has become more lucrative than the drug trade, making guatemala a hub for the mass, illegal transit of minors to mexico, the united states, and canada. this problem is very complex. most of the children are illegally adopted - guatemala is the third largest country in the world for foreign adoptions, after russia and china. this leads to the deepening of social pathologies, child prostitution, forced child labour and violence against women. the illegal trafficking of children and child organs is on the rise in guatemala, mainly due to the lack of internal human rights regulations and the extreme poverty that affects two thirds of the population. statistics show that half the population of guatemala lives on less than two dollars a day. poverty, the lack of any family planning policy, and the breakdown of the education system result in one third of children under the age of 15 not having any access to education. in the name of respect for fundamental human rights, while condemning all forms of violence and exploitation of minors, the european union has a moral obligation to intervene in the internal affairs of a state which violates the rights of its youngest and most vulnerable citizens. i therefore call for a global action to be taken in line with unicef's efforts to defend the rights of children and youth throughout latin america. today's terrorist attacks in london show how fragile the sense of security is, even in a europe at peace, all the more so when we have to oppose all forms of violence around the world.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the subject of today's debate reveals the enormous drama of the modern world, where more than 1.2 million children are trafficked each year, and where international adoptions generate $20 million a year. in poor countries, children are living in poverty, being sent to the streets, sexually abused, or murdered for their organs. the third world has become a home of debauchery for many developed nations. child trafficking in guatemala is the most lucrative after drug and arms trafficking, and trafficking gangs advertise on the internet, seeing that they are impunity, since there is no law in the country that makes it a crime. mothers are being drugged and forced to sign documents renouncing parental rights after giving birth, which is particularly barbaric and, despite the growing scale of the phenomenon, both the guatemalan government and local administrations are standing idle. instead of being loved and cared for, today's children are exposed from birth to unprecedented aggression, elimination, labor and sexual exploitation, facilitated by corrupt politicians, lawyers, officials, and even international humanitarian organizations. john paul ii said: "the care of the child is the first and fundamental test of the relationship of man to man". beyond the interventions and resolutions we support, the role of a morally sound family, which gives the child love, a sense of security, and the necessary conditions for growth and development, needs to be emphasized. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i envy ethiopia, yes, i envy ethiopia, not the government -- because there's nothing to envy here, i envy the belief of the ethiopian people that so much depends on them. show me a country in europe where the voter turnout is, like on may 15 this year in ethiopia, almost 90 percent. it's worthy of respect and support, this country deserves democracy. it's a pity that democracy in ethiopia has such a high price - thirty-six killed, several thousand arrested, fortunately 4,000 of whom were recently released. it is so very important for my people - the polish people, the word "solidarity". for the european union, the word also means a lot. we should also extend this solidarity to ethiopia, which is far from strasbourg but which must not be forgotten. we should remember africa, not just once a year, when bob geldof is on tour. the resolution is a political translation of ernest hemingway's wise maxim: 'don't ask who the bell tolls, it tolls for you'.
mr. chairman, please! during my holiday, watching belgian television, i heard the criticism of the socialist group in the european parliament about the one million euro which parliament had given for the world youth day in cologne. i wanted to express my indignation at those who are fighting the christian past, present and future of europe. europe doesn't have to be christian, it can be secular, but if we don't respect the historical religion that gave it its existence, there is a fear that one day it will become muslim. let's not let that happen. it's not too late.
mr. chairman, please! for the second time in six months, i want to protest from this place against the insult to catholics, this time because of the desecration of the image of our lady of czestochowa in the exhibition for the 25th anniversary of solidarity in the brussels parliament. for us poles, the black madonna of jasna góra is the greatest saint after god, in which, in the words of the poet, "even he believes who believes in nothing". i would remind you that the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms states that everyone has the right to profess his religion, which implies the duty to respect and guarantees the respect for objects of worship. to violate this principle is nothing but to insult catholics, including non-believers who express respect for the divine mother queen of poland, a violation of the convention. i would remind you that the christian values are a fundamental part of european culture and constitute the common cultural heritage of the peoples of this continent.
mr. chairman, please! taking this opportunity to congratulate the house on behalf of all the opponents of the european constitution, i would like to state that in poland, despite the crisis in the european union, mushrooms have sprung up, the forest ferns have grown, we are doing well and the number of opponents of the european constitution is growing rapidly. i would also like to call on the european union to adopt the principles which were declared before the admission of new members, namely equality, fairness and fair accounting.
mr. chairman, please! in mid-august, the belarusian border guard refused entry to polish meps. i ask that you make an official protest to the president, because in your first reaction your spokesman said he would not comment on this because it is a private matter for polish meps. in may, i was one of the four people who were not allowed to enter belarus, in may i was not allowed to enter cuba. fidel castro, like the belarusian dictator lukashenko, has no respect for international norms. havana and minsk - two capitals, symbols of human rights violations and the muzzling of society. i was going to belarus because lukashenko had started a new round of repression against his citizens who think differently than he does. the last free newspapers are being closed, access to the internet is being blocked, opposition activists are being detained, arrested and sentenced, as well as the democratically elected authorities of the union of poles in belarus - the last non-governmental organization that was not subordinated to the minsk dictatorship. i ask the president to initiate actions in the european institutions to support the activists repressed by lukashenka. repressive measures should be taken against lukashenka's officials, and free radios and radio broadcasts to belarus from neighboring countries should be supported, as this will be the only source of independent information for belarusians.
mr. chairman, please! we are all saddened by the disasters that have struck some countries of the european union. i saw the fires in portugal, in spain, when they were still burning, i saw the destruction that they caused. given the scale of the disaster, the countries affected cannot be left without help. that is why i support the draft declaration. but it does give rise to a broader reflection. we have many disasters in europe, and more and more: fires in the south, floods in the centre, and my country, poland, too, experiences them often. the biggest one was eight years ago. there are hurricanes, like in slovakia not so long ago, or even earthquakes. we need to be better prepared to prevent these disasters and to help each other to reverse their effects. i think and i propose that in the near future, in the next few months, we have a general debate, without any specific event, about how the disaster prevention system works, disaster relief, what we can do together to make this system better. here the european commission should present comprehensive proposals so that it is not a debate from fire to fire, from flood to flood, from disaster to disaster. disasters know no bounds. we must work together to prevent them across borders, we must help each other to eliminate their effects across borders, but this must be done in a systematic and organised way.
mr. chairman, please! while the mining waste directive aims to prevent and minimise the negative effects of waste on the environment and human health, it is an environmentally deficient, sometimes irrational, document that serves the development of bureaucracy. the mining industry in poland is not only historically but currently a component of the national economy. therefore, in the pre-accession period, poland sought to relax certain requirements concerning the provision of financial guarantees by operators of waste disposal facilities, which is not applied even in very harmful industries. despite earlier findings on the draft directive, after its transmission to parliament, the envi committee adopted amendments that were very unfavourable to the polish mining industry, imposing burdens that led to non-competitiveness and, in the case of lignite, created a risk of bankruptcy with a threat to energy security in poland. the document places too much responsibility on industrial entities, and equates hazardous waste with non-hazardous waste, all of which will significantly increase operating costs, the need to allocate huge financial expenditures from the state budget for inventorying and recultivating facilities. it would therefore be important to indicate the sources of funding.
mr. chairman, please! the proper management of waste from the extractive industries has a significant environmental impact, especially in areas with a high concentration of extraction, where quite often different raw materials are extracted for several hundred years. in many cases, it was a predatory economy, destroying deposits and the environment, not paying attention to waste management. the draft directive under discussion, and above all the very numerous amendments, are not adequate to the existing situation, since they are arbitrary and do not take account of the situation in areas where there is very intensive exploitation of deposits. the proposed inventory of waste generated and generated in the course of current operations can only determine the needs and technological possibilities for its management. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. implementation of the directive to address identified deficiencies will in principle place a burden on regional and national budgets, on the expenditure of current plant owners for matters not attributable to them and will increase the cost of guarantees, etc. the result is the bankruptcy of the poorly financed plants and the abandonment of their waste. i propose that the draft directive not be amended to deal with obvious, unrealistic deadlines which increase costs unjustifiably - and there are such restrictions which hinder the ability of the member states to adapt certain requirements to regional, national conditions.
madam president! marx said that religion is the opiate of the people. after 150 years of this, it's not worth talking about. the churches, including the catholic church, are part of europe, part not only of european history but also of european modernity, because the churches are the citizens of our countries. dialogue, more cooperation between the churches is good first of all for societies, for nations. i see very positive examples of the work of the catholic church and other churches in my country, poland. in my hometown of wrocław, right next to my house, there are four churches: a catholic, an orthodox, a protestant, and a jewish synagogue. all these religions live together, cooperating with the authorities of wroclaw, the authorities of our city. it's an example of good cooperation. recently, churches in america, in new orleans, have shown that they can do more than just the inefficient administration of the state.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on employment and social affairs on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (optical radiation) (nineteenth individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec) (05571/6/2005 - c6-0129/2005 - 1992/0449 ((cod)) (rapporteur: csaba őry) (a6-0249/2005).
the commission's vice-president mr president, the commission and the council are aware that prevention of natural hazards must be treated differently and the common position reflects this difference. i shall therefore, mr president, explain the commission's position on the amendments. i would like to begin by thanking parliament for the work it has done and for the debate it has had. during the long and difficult legislative process, the commission has been keen to do its utmost to maintain a high level of protection for workers in this text, avoiding discrimination between workers exposed to risks with similar consequences, in compliance with the provisions of framework directive 89/391, while ensuring the necessary proportionality. this is to allow, at the end of the process, a compromise acceptable to all the institutions concerned. the commission cannot therefore accept what is being said, in particular in some media, that the text of the common position is a useless exercise, conducive to giving the european citizen a bureaucratic and sterile image of the european union. the commission believes that the common position is a balanced text which responds to the real dangers of eye diseases and skin cancers - melanoma - faced by all citizens and is perfectly in line with the terms of the recent european parliament resolution on the promotion of health and safety. we must of course find ways of avoiding unnecessary burdens on our businesses, and in particular, as many have pointed out, on small and mediumsized enterprises. amendments nos 1, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 36 reinforce the need for early detection of health effects and specify the level of qualification of those responsible for medical surveillance. the commission may accept them. the commission can also accept amendments nos 2, 3, 6, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 34 and 35. they improve the text and reinforce and clarify the meaning of the provision concerned. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 5, 7 and 37 as they stand, which propose to leave it to each member state to legislate on whether or not employers should carry out a risk assessment in the case of exposure to radiation of natural origin. in addition to the considerations of protecting the health of workers, referred to above, such provisions would be contrary to the obligations imposed on employers by framework directive 89/391 to take account of all risks and to carry out a risk assessment in all cases. the adoption of these amendments - i stress this point a little, mr president, because it is an important point of law - would in a way involve a transfer of responsibility from the employer to the national legislator. i believe that this would pose a real problem in terms of labour law and working conditions and would not, in my view, make the task of the states any easier. i therefore insist on this point. similarly, amendment no 18 in favour of rejecting the common position, amendments nos 21 and 24, which exclude in particular the inclusion of particularly sensitive risk groups or effects due to interactions with photosensitizing substances, and all amendments nos 19 to 23, 25 to 33, which exclude optical radiation of natural origin from the scope of the directive, cannot be accepted by the commission, even though it understands the reasons which may have led to these amendments. the commission intends to work with parliament and the council to find a solution which will allow the directive to be adopted as soon as possible. as regards amendments nos 4 and 13, which introduce a provision requiring the commission to draw up a guide to good practice, the commission is prepared to consider how best to respond to them, while remaining concerned to avoid procedures which would undermine the drafting quality of community legislation governed by an interinstitutional agreement. the commission hopes that the amendments which will be adopted tomorrow will enable the text of the new directive to achieve fully the objectives of article 137 of the treaty in the field of workers' health and social security. i would like to emphasize the quality of the compromise reached, by differentiating the risks according to their origin and by simply authorizing, i believe, particularly for natural hazards, a number of precautionary measures which can simply be reminded to workers in the interests of their health and which thus complement the provisions for protecting the health of workers in europe, without going into too much detail and complication. that is why i think that this compromise, mr president, really deserves the full attention of parliament.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mrs karin jöns on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community programme for employment and social solidarity - progress (com (2004) 0488 - c6-0092/2004 - 2004/0158 (cod)) (a6-0199/2005).
chairman of the committee on budgets. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's presentation of the 2006 budget by mr lewis confirms the impression of the european parliament delegation from the conciliation meeting on 15 july. contrary to its name, it was not a conciliation, but rather a protocol of divergence. while no one expects agreement at this time of year, it is also true that the two budgetary authorities in the european union are far apart in their views on the 2006 budget. this is not reflected in the agreement on the essential but on the secondary issues, such as the so-called modulation, i.e. the shift of expenditure under title i (eur 655 million) to rural development. the aim is to reach an agreement on the budget, but it will not be an easy task. the european parliament is a political body made up of people who made a contract with their constituents a year ago and are mindful of their commitments. it was said then, and it is said loudly today, that the process of enlargement of the european union is not complete, that it requires investment in cohesion, that the lisbon strategy must be revived, that new ambitions for the european union on the international stage must be financed. the commitment we made last year is also, of course, financial rigor and discipline. spending without financial discipline is wasteful, condemned by voters, condemned by public opinion, but on the other hand, political ambitions and goals that are not backed by money are empty declarations. the european parliament must look at the 2006 budget through the lens of its experience last year, when we agreed, as it were, to a level of payments below what will be needed this year, which is indicative of the development of budgetary expenditure in 2005. we must also look at the 2006 budget as a bridge to a new financial perspective. in this context, we found the european commission's exit proposals unsatisfactory, at 1.02% of gross national income, or almost €7 billion below the ceiling of the financial perspective for this year. there is a real gap between these proposals for 2006 and what the commission has proposed as the first year of the new financial perspective, namely 2007 for payments. all the less understandable and unacceptable are the cuts made by the council, which reduce payments to almost 1% of gross national income. we are seeing a more selective and less mechanical approach to cuts by the council this year. moving very quickly through the various sections: the agreed modulation in section i is a joint success, but we also look forward to the submission to the commission of the final shape of agricultural expenditure as a basis for further discussion. we in parliament note that cohesion has come out relatively defensive of the council's cuts, but we also have preliminary information on the use of structural measures in 2005, which indicates that they will be used not at the level of the council's draft but at the level of at least the preliminary submission to the european commission. the greatest tensions are beginning to emerge in title iii, namely in the field of internal policies, where the cuts are relatively the largest, over eur 500 million, which contradicts both the lisbon agenda strategy, investing in research and in small and medium-sized enterprises, and preventing the priorities of the european parliament from being achieved. in chapter iv, however, it is already a clash not so much with the priorities of the european parliament as with the declarations of the british presidency itself. in addition to the privileged common foreign and security policy, mechanical reductions of about 4% mean that it is impossible to meet all the challenges that are constantly emerging, because this is not just a problem of the tsunami, iraq, afghanistan. there is a need to finance assistance for other areas affected by natural disasters. there is a problem of compensation for sugar producers. the administration is a problem faced by the european commission the possible freezing of recruitment of workers from the new member states. in conclusion, we are discussing the 2006 budget in a climate of some doubt. the european union needs good news. the agreement on both the 2006 budget and the sensible level of financial agreement on the financial perspective is such good news and can rekindle hope in the european union. this is our common responsibility and our common task.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. when the european communities were founded more than half a century ago, poland and the other new member countries were part of the soviet bloc. we could only look with a certain envy at this project of overcoming old conflicts through economic cooperation. development and solidarity that is how we saw, and that is how we see today, the main objectives of the european union, which poland has finally found itself in. but the satisfaction of that is being eroded by the trends we see today, which are beginning to dominate in some net-paying countries. they are not simply the result of a slowdown in economic growth but rather of an accepted philosophy of action. excessive labour costs burden these economies and their over-regulation leads to budget deficits. these in turn lead to a reduction in benefits to the union. the state of play of the union's 2006 budget is a matter of concern. the commission's proposed project was cut by the council again by more than €1 billion to 1.01 billion of gross national income. that's not a good sign. this is all the more so since there is no progress on the financial perspective for 2007-13. if the perspective is not adopted by next spring, the cut-off for 2006 could become the basis for future budgets and the worrying trends mentioned above could be sustained for many years. there are two approaches to the union's finances. one favours pro-development spending at the expense of agricultural subsidies. the second is to defend the social dimension of the eu project at the expense of the lisbon strategy. one seems to favour development over solidarity, the other favours solidarity over development. but the alternative 'development or solidarity' is wrong and, by escalating national egoisms, leads to a fatal compromise of 'development or solidarity' and to the utopia of 'more europe for less money'. the persistence of some net contributors to cut spending is worrying primarily because it threatens the union's fundamental objectives of development and solidarity.
madam president! i would like to say on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism that the commission has worked out its position with the transport policy projects in mind. secondly, it was guided by a report on tourism in europe. finally, thirdly, it took into account the fact that this is the last move of the financial perspective so far. the position of the committee on transport and tourism is as follows: firstly, we want to increase the financial support for the implementation of the concept of transeuropean transport networks by eur 120 million, we do not agree with savings in this area. secondly, for the first time in history, we want to launch a tourism finance line. finally, thirdly, as the commission, we have unanimously rejected the council's proposal, particularly as regards the protection of marine waters against pollution. we've been following this principle here: we survive, we witness disasters in the air, on land we're helpless. let us not be helpless, but capable of responding to a disaster on the water.
madam president! i am taking part in the debate on the 2005 budget amendments and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, in the belief that the proposals contained in the reports by mr salvador garriga polledo and mr reimer böge will enable the european union to fulfil its obligations towards the countries affected by the tsunami. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to three more general problems. first, there are the increasing frequency of natural disasters, which cause enormous loss of life and property. tsunamis in asia, hurricanes in slovakia, floods in austria, romania, and germany, fires in spain and portugal, and the recent disaster in the united states - these are just some of the disasters that have hit the country this year. this means that the european union will have to allocate significantly more resources in future budgets to help countries affected by natural disasters. secondly, aid declarations are relatively easy to make, but much more difficult to implement. an example of this is the asian tsunami relief fund we're discussing today. the european union has committed eur 350 million to this end and the sources of funding for these not-so-excessive commitments are still being worked out. thirdly, i would point out the long-standing procedures for preparing the financing of the remediation of the effects of natural disasters. for example, the aid to slovakia. the hurricane destroyed a large part of the forests in the slovak tatras. it was the fall of 2004. it is only now, after a year, that we will be providing slovakia with the financial means to deal with the consequences of this disaster. i am convinced that the adoption of the reports by mr salvador garriga polledo and mr reimer böge, which we are discussing today, will help to speed up the transfer of funds to this end.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the line between tv, the internet and telephony is blurring. it creates new challenges. the legal acts that we have in the european union, at the european level, do not respond to these challenges, including in terms of protecting the mental and moral development of the youngest media users. the first major problem is the removal of responsibility from the member state for the content of programmes broadcast from abroad. the category of border state or union of states is anachronistic in the media world and not reacting to program content just because it is broadcast from abroad is irresponsible. the technical safeguards required for content that threatens the moral development of children are outdated and ineffective today. they are now only serving to improve the well-being of those who introduced them into the directive. we also forget that in addition to the content that should not normally be available to children, we have in article 22 categories of programmes that should not be broadcast at all. 'the content of the programme should not be obscene or pornographic', the directive says. 'the broadcasting of programmes which endanger the mental and emotional development of children is also prohibited', the directive continues. at the same time, we are unable to deal with the problem of delivering harmful content in software packages to families who do not want it. we are, of course, at odds with the fundamental principle of free speech, and it is we, not the porn industry, who are being defeated. it's unfortunate that this simple clash of norms cannot be resolved in the interest of common sense and the public good. the large number of derogations and exceptions in the directive leads the member states and the european union itself to fail to apply the directive, in particular article 22. an example is the european commission's inaction in relation to a complaint about the registration of a pornographic channel by the french national audiovisual council. this registration is not only a violation of the directive in france, but is also the basis for applying for the automatic introduction of this channel, for example in poland. this is not what the possibility of greater protection for the viewer under national law should look like. the report by marielle de sarnez is a good response to all these challenges, to all these problems, and therefore deserves our support. however, it cannot be ignored that the frequent reference to the dead draft of the constitutional treaty in this document significantly weakens it.
mr. chairman, please! we all welcome the draft paediatric regulation as an expression of concern for children's health in europe and beyond. however, it should be borne in mind that this regulation will have a greater negative financial impact on some countries than on others. mr verheugen, as a former commissioner for enlargement, you are probably better acquainted than anyone else with the difficult financial situation of the health sector in poland. excessively long periods of patent protection and registration data protection would be particularly disastrous for poorer countries, where the market economy system guaranteeing a normal functioning economy has only recently been established. let us work together to ensure that the pharmaceutical industry, which does not complain about the lack of revenue, does not use too much of the money of the societies of our member states. i am in favour of minimum bonuses for the pharmaceutical sector and the possibility of generic medicines as soon as possible. however, as ms roth-behrendt points out in her final report, the quality of child health care is more important than the savings made.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use is needed by everyone, and especially by children the youngest citizens of the european union. it's about providing better medicine at affordable prices, at prices that every mother can afford. i want to congratulate your rapporteur on her work on this document. with this regulation, we are sending a good signal to our voters, we are showing that parliament supports the work on the development of paediatric medicines, cares about the medical conditions of our children, cares about their health. however, we made a number of mistakes in drafting this regulation. fortunately, we still have a chance to eliminate them in the vote tomorrow. firstly, i am against the so-called 'prize pooling', i.e. the granting of financial support for the same research or for the same investments. secondly, i consider it wrong to abolish the obligation to register a paediatric medicinal product in all member states as a condition for obtaining additional patent protection. paediatric medicines should be registered and available in all countries, not just in some countries. i do not agree that some eu citizens should be denied access to new and better medicines, and yet the company that makes them should be rewarded. it's socially unfair, legally unjustified and against the principle of equality. the european parliament should not accept this. thirdly, i have serious reservations about the proposal to extend patent protection for paediatric medicines, since a patent protects any new medicine, whether it is used to treat a child, a woman or an elderly person. there is no doubt that extending patent protection will limit access to the generic market. we shouldn't have agreed to this. every mother will pay any price for the health of her child, but i want to ask: why should she pay more when, by passing the amendments, parliament can give her a chance to pay as much as she needs to?
mr. chairman, please! terrorism ante portas terrorism at the gates of europe. in fact, terrorism has unfortunately become part of european modernity. we cannot be immune to this criminal activity and therefore all available means should be used, both by individual states and by international organisations. even if they partially and temporarily restrict civil rights. let us put it bluntly: they must be consciously sacrificed on the altar of the security of the european peoples. of course, this must be controlled and monitored, and the fight against terrorism, which has the support of the masses, cannot be instrumental in the hands of pressure groups, parties and governments. the british government should be commended, mr minister, for introducing a facilitated procedure for the expulsion of persons involved in terrorist activities in this country. one of the main demands made to the british government and the governments of the other eu member states was to introduce readmission in relations with russia, ukraine and the north african countries (especially morocco). let us be clear: in the fight against terrorism, europe must be, is and will hopefully be united. it's good that we're talking about the middle east right after this debate. there, too, we are dealing with terrorism directed against the state, the state of israel. in this context, the citizens of israel should be commended and their methods of combating terrorism should be studied. the government in tel aviv should also be commended for its consistency in its roadmap, for its vision of the future, for its effectiveness in implementing its policies and defending them in its own parliament. but there is also a need to feel for the thousands of israelis who have been displaced from their homes in the gaza strip, where they have lived for decades. the palestinian authority's efforts, although not always successful, to promote security in the region should also be commended. i say this because the fight against terrorism in europe is not something separate. europe is not alone on this counter-terrorism front.
mr. chairman, please! the israeli withdrawal from gaza and the four west bank settlements has reopened the door to peace in the middle east, to an israeli-palestinian settlement, to the security of the state of israel and to the creation of a palestinian state. the decision of the ariel sharon government and the support for the process of evacuating jewish settlements by the majority of the israeli public should be welcomed. i would like to emphasize today in the european parliament the support of the israelis for this process. the israeli society - a society made up of the descendants of refugees - supported the process of evacuating nine thousand settlers from gaza, thus giving proof of the desire for real peace with the palestinian people and the democratic character of the israeli state in the middle east. this reaction by the majority of the israeli public shows that the european union has a partner in the middle east in the creation of an international order based on respect for human rights and democracy. accepting the evacuation and the strong rejection by israeli public opinion of anti-arab attacks can be proof that we are not doomed in the modern world to a clash of civilizations and the triumph of fundamentalisms. the european union should continue to support the efforts of jim wolfensohn, the madrid quartet envoy, to coordinate union spending with that of other donors and to make the best use of it. as javier solana has announced, the european union could act as a third party in the field of border and customs controls. the gaza strip cannot become a zone of terror and lawlessness, a new home for terrorist activity. we must do everything in europe to ensure that the evacuation of jewish settlements in gaza can lead to negotiations which will deal with the issue of the further withdrawal of israeli troops, the course of the border and the status of jerusalem, and will allow the idea of two states to be realised.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, you have just told one of the honourable members of this house that you are terribly sorry, but it is time to stop. i fear that you may soon be terribly sorry because it is time for me to start the wind-up to this debate. firstly, it has been an important and timely debate for parliament this afternoon. i am genuinely grateful for the insights that have been garnered in our debate that reflect the experience and expertise of members of this house. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra began by echoing the points made by commissioner verheugen, recognising the hopeful signs that have emerged over recent months within the region. i can assure him that the presidency is very aware of the key role that the european union can play as part of the quartet in advancing the peace process. let me, however, at this stage reiterate a point that was made by the commissioner in his introductory remarks in paying tribute not to a european, but to an american, james wolfensen, who has already made a tremendous contribution to the work of the quartet and indeed to the successful withdrawal from gaza that we have seen in recent days. mrs napoletano, in stating her abhorrence of terrorism, echoed sentiments that i am sure are felt by all of us in this house. that is why we recognise the importance of building on the momentum that has been established in the region in recent months and why i believe that there is a shared determination between the commission, the council and this parliament to take forward that momentum in the weeks and months ahead. ms malmström recognised the importance of human rights in iran. let me assure her that we are aware that serious violations of human rights continue to occur within that country. the council is especially concerned about the number of executions of juvenile offenders in recent weeks. the european council is clear that our relations with iran can only move forward if iran takes action to address our political concerns in areas such as human rights, which she highlighted in her speech. mr hammerstein mintz talked of gaza representing 'a light of hope'. let us all hope that that is what it proves to be. our challenge now, as i have always made clear, is to continue to advance the peace process. disengagement offers the prospect of israel withdrawing settlements from gaza and part of the west bank for the first time in history. this is a real opportunity for progress. however, on the specific point made by the honourable member about jerusalem, the european union has continually made its view clear on settlement activity, not just in the west bank, but also in east jerusalem. we have made clear to the government of israel that all settlement activity should be frozen. mr adamou described withdrawal as a significant step, but recognised the equally significant challenges ahead. i would simply reiterate that the long-term objective for the european commission is assistance to support the creation, as was suggested, of an independent democratic palestinian state. that continues to be one of our key objectives. mr belder quoted the high representative, javier solana, when he spoke of his concerns regarding the activities of hamas and hezbollah. i can assure you that the european union keeps the status of hamas and hezbollah under constant review and the european union stands firm in its policy of not dealing with terrorists. hamas is subject to a european union asset freeze and european union officials will not meet members of the hamas leadership until it recognises israel's right to exist. mr mölzer spoke on various points with which i find myself frankly not in agreement, both as regards some of the issues that he focused on and his characterisation of some of the other issues. where we were able to find common ground was on the possibility of the european union making the advancement of the middle east peace process one of its objectives in an area where we can make a positive contribution. at least on that there was agreement between us. mr mcmillan-scott spoke of both the egyptian elections – as did mr tannock – and also of the words of the secretary of state of the united states, condoleezza rice, at a recent speech at the american university in cairo. i noted with interest the points he made regarding democracy and human rights, later echoed by mr hökmark. mrs de keyser raised the issue of the israeli barrier. the best response i can offer on behalf of the presidency is to quote directly to her the clear view of the june european council on this matter: 'the european council, while recognising the right of israel to protect its citizens from attacks, remains concerned by the continuing construction of the separation barrier in the occupied palestinian territory, including in and around east jerusalem, which is contrary to the provisions of international law.' mrs rice spoke of the need to turn the military withdrawal we have seen in recent days into a political success, expressing sentiments reiterated by mr portas. of course, that is true. i agree that after disengagement, it will be important to ensure that momentum is maintained and that both israel and the palestinians focus on implementation of the roadmap. it will also be important for the palestinian authority to ensure that law and order is maintained in gaza. conditions on access and on trade must allow economic growth and stability for the gaza economy, a point made by a number of honourable members, but equally allow for israel to have security from militant or terrorist attacks, which is its right. mrs hybášková raised the issue of iran and in particular the issue of diplomatic sanctions being applied. it is important to remind this house that the iaea board meets on 19 september. the european union has said that it will support calls for iran to be reported to the united nations security council at that meeting, but we are discussing the next step with our international partners. it is therefore important to await the discussions that will take place first at the iaea board meeting on 19 september and i would not wish to anticipate those discussions at this time. one of my colleagues from the united kingdom, mr howitt, brought his experience as an electoral observer to his contribution to our debate this afternoon. he spoke powerfully, i would argue, about what he described, somewhat tactfully, as the uncomfortable truths that endure, even after the recent withdrawal. he is right to acknowledge the scale of the challenge faced by the region, as well as the scale of the achievement that has been accomplished. he recognised, rightly again, the contribution that we have to make and the responsibility that we bear as a member of the quartet to make further progress and to sustain hope and banish cynicism, which has been too common in the past. mr karim raised the issue of the barrier, and i would simply reiterate the point i made in relation to the stated position of the european council as recently as june. i would remind the honourable member that article 2 of the european union-israel association agreement states that: 'relations between the parties, as well as all the provisions of the agreement itself, shall be based on respect for human rights and democratic principles, which guides their internal and international policy and constitutes an essential element of this agreement.' i can assure the honourable member that where we have concerns about israeli actions on human rights, we will raise – and have raised – those concerns with the israeli government. the european union also uses the opportunity to raise issues of concern, including human rights, at the eu-israel association council. we will consider in due course what issues to raise in advance of the eu-israel association council scheduled to be held at the end of our presidency at the end of this year. i listened carefully to mr kasoulides and i assure him that we will share the objective of maintaining the momentum for peace in the months ahead. mr swoboda spoke of the need for a coordinated approach to address the issue of proliferation. although i speak today on behalf of the presidency rather than the british government, i would simply point out at this stage, as a serving minister in the british foreign office, that to date the e3 process has been a powerful affirmation of that approach, whereby a coordinated approach has been secured across europe, which has strengthened our hand in the important and difficult discussions that have had to take place directly with iran in recent months. mr pinior paid tribute to israel's step in withdrawing from gaza and i once again echo that sentiment on behalf of the presidency. as well as discussing the issue of egypt – of which i have already spoken – mr tannock raised the issue of the constitution for iraq. this is an achievement. indeed, in the official briefing i received in preparation for today's debate, it was suggested that i should tell this august body that constitutions are never the easiest things to write. i need hardly make that point to the european parliament in light of recent events. but, to be entirely serious, it is important to recognise how challenging the achievement of a constitution has been in iraq, against a backdrop of nearly 30 years of tyranny and in the face of ongoing terrorist attacks on innocent people designed specifically to prevent them reaching agreement. in a country as diverse as iraq, surely that is all the more so the case. it is important, therefore, that we remember those points, but also that this is an iraqi constitution, written by democratically elected iraqi politicians on behalf of their people. it works to balance that country's distinctive traditions – which, frankly, are very different from our own within europe – with its desire for democracy. it is a huge step forward for iraq and one that should be welcomed. on behalf of the presidency, let me thank all those honourable members who have participated today, pay tribute to the contribution of the commission earlier in the debate and express my gratitude for the points raised in what i believe will continue to be an important subject and focus of our work in the remaining months of our presidency.
i'm closing the debate. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the debate on the report by mr queiró, drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism (a6-0235/2005) (com (2004) 2229 final).
author of the draft opinion of the cult committee. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft resolution of the european parliament on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism has attracted considerable interest from the committee on culture and education. the commission has delivered an opinion to the committee on transport and tourism, drawing particular attention to: the need to focus on long-term tourism in its various aspects (i.e. economic, cultural, natural and social) and the need to value seasonal tourism, the link between tourism development and the protection of national, regional and local culture, as well as the natural environment, parks, landscapes, urban planning, architectural ensembles and objects, the use of tourism for economic development, job creation and the preservation of human physical and mental health, the proper management of tourism resources, the development of agro-tourism (particularly in the new member states) and the education of young people in the field of cultural, sporting, sporting, sporting and cultural activities. the majority of these proposals were adopted by the committee on transport and tourism and incorporated into the final draft resolution. the result is an interesting document which, although dominated by organisational and economic issues, notes the timeless values, including culture, nature, the natural environment of man. the draft resolution omitted or under-emphasised qualified tourism, the protection of historic cities, architectural ensembles and objects and the european cultural tourism card. these issues will need to be given more attention in future work on sustainable tourism development.
mr. chairman, please! it is of course true that tourism is not directly subject to european community legislation. there is another truth that luis queiroz's report makes clear. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres and the establishment of a european network of information centres. there were many arguments in favour of this in the debate today. i would like to mention one more, which i think is not the least important. well, tourism is also about people communicating. the tourist not only gets to know the sights and attractions, but also new people, previously unknown to him. in the process of these contacts, prejudices, negative stereotypes, bad historical past are weakened and collapsed. in fact, only direct contact with another human being can change these attitudes. when we make contact with each other, we stop being strangers. how important this is in the context of the enlarged european union, especially for young people. i therefore propose that, following the example of socrates and erasmus, tourism programmes for young people be developed. let's give them the chance to see europe from spain to estonia and from sweden to malta and cyprus. to get to know each other so we can understand each other much better than we have in the past. i think it's worth working on these programs, not sparing time or money.
mr. chairman, please! tourism is a journey, it's a wander. a traveler has always been someone who sets out to see the world, to learn something, to come back richer in experience and skill. he was going through universities all over europe. this is how a european identity was built, a european consciousness of values, a europe of universities, of cathedrals, of great artists and craftsmen. today, tourism is more about the pursuit of quick, consuming pleasure. to this day, i often quote the motto on the école du ski français: 'pleasure is something you learn' (le plaisire ça s'apprend). we can appreciate the value of a skill or knowledge only if we put forth the effort to do so. unfortunately, today's tourism is like the supermarkets scattered all over europe. it's dominated by the same goal: to make space cheap, easily accessible, and ideally, most of it the same. the movement has been lightning fast. we're running out of time, so we're swallowing more tourist products. the tourism industry is adapting. sell a colorful picture of the sea, the mountains and the pool. it is often said that tourism creates jobs, but at what cost? a mindless record-breaking visit. the one with the most million hits is the one with the most hits. this report is therefore important because europe must focus on the quality of tourism, it must take up the challenge of mass tourism, especially as it now supports the development of regional airports and low-cost airlines. we need to restore the meaning of the word travel, wandering. we need to create educational programs that prevent the destruction of the natural environment and the historical heritage. new initiatives for sustainable tourism are needed. remembering that the love of world heritage, nature or the supermaterial leads through the recognition of the value of the world that surrounds us the small homeland of each of us. (laughter)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have drawn many very important insights from this debate and, above all, a broad consensus that tourism is a growth engine for the future of europe and must be given a higher profile in european politics as a whole. it is for this reason that it was agreed that we would hold a european tourism forum in malta in october, at which i will explain for the first time the main lines of the commission's future tourism policy. and it is intended that at the beginning of next year, as i have already announced to your committee, a fundamental revision of the european union's current tourism policy will be presented in the form of a new strategy, in which i shall be happy to incorporate all the ideas i have drawn from today's debate. and that was very, very much. i just want to make one very clear restriction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's ideas will be far removed from any form of state intervention, state protection and, in particular, subsidies. we will certainly not be opening up a new subsidy sector, but will be using all the instruments we have to influence the framework conditions for an economic sector in a positive way, to create the framework conditions. but i am also clear that i will never accept that it is the european commission's job to provide a programme on tourism and the elderly. if the tourism industry thinks it has to do something special for the elderly, it has a right to do it. the commission will not do so. we can encourage it, but we will not take over the tasks of the tourist industry, but we will ensure that the tourist industry finds conditions in which it can develop. but the business must be run by the ladies and gentlemen themselves, and we will certainly not take that away from them. i think we will agree on this basis, and certainly on the basis that we do not want to fall back on the demand for more and more european rules, standards and regulations. i was a little surprised this afternoon to hear the call for a lot of new european regulations, and i say no to that. the commission is of the opinion that there will be no european standards for hotels, inns or coaches. the commission has to hire thousands of testers to check whether european restaurants meet certain minimum standards set by the commission. (interruption of the debate) yes, you did, and i'm saying no. the tourism industry can easily agree on its own quality requirements. when it comes to safety, it's a different story. the relevant arrangements are in place. however, the industry itself has to regulate and enforce quality standards in certain economic sectors, and this is not a matter for public law. i would also ask the european parliament to be consistent here and not to criticise the commission for interfering too much in the affairs of the economy, but to insist that we take over the tasks of the economy. but, apart from this debate, i think there is a lot of commonality that this debate has shown, and i am quite sure that we will achieve a common, forward-looking tourism policy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 142)
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs svensson, and of course the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the very important work they have done in drawing up this report. the fact is, from the very first day that i took office and my involvement in health issues, i saw that there really is this gender dimension, the gender gap dimension in health issues. i would like to mention the issue of smoking, for example, where it now seems that the trend of an increase in smokers is towards women - and indeed young women - and indeed through the deceptive promise that through smoking they control their weight. and we know the problems in society with regard to weight in young girls: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco smoking. the issue of hiv-aids. unfortunately, infections are increasing in the european union among young people, especially women. and that's one of the most worrying factors in this disease. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the social partners are not involved in the decision-making process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, we have ways, such as recommendations, recommendations, open method of coordination, guidelines, by which we can exploit a common policy between parliament and the commission to persuade the member states to implement it. i would also like to mention briefly two or three things: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include women and men, and to include women in the workforce. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. but so too will mental health, which will be approached with a gender dimension. the green paper on mental health that we will be publishing in october will also highlight this issue. we will soon be announcing new guidelines for breast cancer control, and we have already expanded work on cervical cancer. we believe that by the end of the year we will have the first set of guidelines. this shows that we are indeed taking this dimension into account. in conclusion, what really matters, and i am adopting it and we will promote it in the commission, is the issue of collecting data, real accurate data which will give us the real dimension of the gender gap in health; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, in 2006 we will set indicators for gynaecological health and menopause, such as an endometriosis indicator which is of course very important. i would like to conclude by saying that in the pharmaceutical sector too, together with my colleague mr verheugen, we will shortly be announcing an initiative in the pharmaceutical industry, and there we will take into account in the field of patient information the need to treat women differently in the use of medicines, which, as the report very rightly points out and i do not need to go into it further, have a different effect on men and women. i shall be very interested in following the debate.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am sure that mrs. eva-britt svensson had the best intentions when she wrote the report, but it seems that there is a somewhat artificial division of programmes according to gender. however, the report highlights a number of important problems, both general and specific. however, by favouring certain issues in particular, it unjustifiably discriminates against other, less important issues. it's always easier to treat a disease when you know what caused it. so after the analysis, i wanted to draw attention to the underlying causes of discrimination, namely the lack of respect for human rights, ethical principles and the scourge of mental disorders. discrimination is a manifestation of self-centeredness, which wants to dominate the other person and subordinate people to its own ends. the problem of feminization of medical staff is not a discrimination but a need of the patients, which is a result of the caring nature of women and their sensitivity to the needs of patients. discriminatory charges may be those which are inadequate in relation to the charges or pay conditions. economic conditions and liberal lifestyles discriminate against women who give birth to children, as well as against morally sound families, which are the only environment for normal growth and coexistence in mutual respect and love, which requires legal support and pro-family policies. the degradation of the family is one of the factors of sexual promiscuity, which is the next link in the chain of pathology, namely sexually transmitted diseases, especially chlamydia and hiv, which bring a lot of suffering, cancer and death, and women's struggle for their rights and privileges cannot be in the form of aggressive competition with men, which creates conflict. if the author's real concern is for women with mental disorders and addictions, why the veiled abortion propaganda in paragraph 21 that like liberal tolerance of deviance pushes traditional norms aside by introducing disorder and depravity. furthermore, although there is a difference in the types of addiction between men and women, the basic problem is always self-dependence, which is a symptom of a lack of personal development and a mental disorder referred to in medicine as self-destructive neurosis. violence is also a symptom of a mental disorder and is used (as studies of people in homosexual relationships show) by both women and men in about 50% i.e. violence is not gender-related. it is a complete misunderstanding from a medical point of view to propose the use of drugs according to sex, while the norm is the variation of dosage according to the weight and age of the patient. the possible differences relate to the use of individual preparations depending on individual sensitivity, sex hormones therefore the introduction of sex differences in pharmacotherapy is an unjustified eu novelty.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have read this report with great interest because it draws attention - very rightly - to some very specific situations concerning women's health. i am very glad that this interest is perhaps a trace of a certain european tradition to take an interest in the weaker ones - in this case - of that good old tradition. in this case, indeed, the interest in women as the weaker part of the human race is entirely justified. instead, consider to what extent many of the problems of women today are the result of bad changes in civilization, a bad family model, and bad ideologies in today's sense of right and wrong, of morality and immorality. today, if we consider that men are working less and less, that they have won a 35-hour workweek in some countries - which means that nothing or almost nothing is done - and that women also have to work those 35 hours and take care of the house and the family, then the fate of women is indeed more difficult. we should think about whether we should create conditions where women can stay at home if they want to, and devote themselves to their families instead of working as hard as they do today. i think that the report has failed to address the negative effects of widespread abortion. the report makes it very clear that women are experiencing very serious mental health problems, that there is an increase in alcoholism among women, an increase in drug addiction and - and this is very sad - an increase in suicides, as you said in your report. we should consider to what extent this is due to the wrong kind of family, the wrong kind of family model, and also, among other things, as a result of abortion or also some contraceptive measures. it is a good thing that women in most countries still live longer than men, but unfortunately the gap is narrowing, and this is obviously the result of the many negative factors you mentioned in your report. i regret that there is a certain ideological element in this report, namely paragraph 21 quoted by mrs krup, in which the problem of so-called reproductive health, or the hidden incitement to abortion, is introduced quite unnecessarily. i don't know why in almost every issue there are always ideologized feminists who, whether it's about issues like when we talked about aids, when we talked about the millennium development goals, when we talked about gender equality in this room, there's always someone who brings up the issue of so-called reproductive health, or covert abortion. this is completely unnecessary ideologizing. and it's also a completely unnecessary part of the ideology to confuse women patients with women healthcare workers. it's one thing to have equal access to health care for women and men, but it's another to have relationships within health care. and again, it's this feminist mania that not everyone here can get rid of. i was very pleased to read point d, which says that public health is primarily affected by ethical and moral principles. i wish europe to have the best health possible through good moral health.
mr. chairman, please! tourism is a major source of budget revenue for many developing countries and a major driver of economic growth. there is no doubt that helping to do so should become one of the priorities of the support provided by the european union. we should also be aware of certain risks faced by tourists and the risks associated with tourism for the 25 eu countries. the issue of tourism's support for totalitarian governments should be an important part of the tourism and development debate. i am concerned that the text does not mention the problem of drug trafficking, because tourists visiting developing countries for entertainment also go for drugs, which leads to the flourishing of the trade in all kinds of drugs in the country concerned. we cannot ignore the threat that terrorists pose to tourists. their actions are often targeted at tourists an example is the events in egypt, where islamic terrorists target tourists. the development of tourism is also affected by all kinds of epidemiological threats that deter travellers from a country. we should therefore provide financial support for the use of childhood vaccines containing antigen for fibroids, tetanus and other infectious diseases. recently, a new disease has emerged that is becoming a direct threat to european countries avian influenza. it is also a strong disincentive for travelers to visit areas at risk of the epidemic. leaving this problem unresolved will not do anyone any good. another problem that cannot be overlooked is sex tourism, which also involves children. the fight against all forms of crime and the practice of sex tourism must therefore be clearly and transparently tackled. it is therefore proposed to provide logistical support to countries facing such problems. victims of sex tourism need to be rehabilitated. we must not only fight the consequences, but also make tourists aware of how they will be treated if they commit such a crime, and treat them with the utmost severity. tourism as a source of revenue for totalitarian regimes is an important, though rarely discussed, topic. the issue of maintaining diplomatic relations with the cuban regime remains a sensitive one for many governments of the member states of the european union, as in many cases they are linked to the tourism sector. on the one hand, we are aware of the help given to a poor country by supporting the tourism sector, but on the other hand we know very well that the income goes only to a narrow, elite group associated with the government of fidel castro. in this respect, the report lacked a clear and convincing vision.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very interested to hear the views and comments on the report. i would first say that, overall, i can agree with most of the report, with the exception of perhaps a few points raised during the debates which i can share. tourism can be an important driver of development in a poor country. however, it has also been said that we must measure the social, environmental and, i would even say, the heritage effects. even in europe, the fact that we visit certain places en masse causes wear and tear which must be tackled. so i think we must always keep in mind the need to protect the heritage wealth of countries. i shall add to the effects already mentioned speculative and economic effects. that said, i believe we must respect a fundamental principle, namely that it is first and foremost up to the partner countries to choose tourism as a priority economic sector. it is not for us to decide for them. on this basis, what seems to me important at the commission level - and i will, mrs kinnock, be very much committed to this - is that, in addition to helping to create tourist infrastructure through development projects, it could usefully make available to governments its know-how in the fields of assessing the positive and negative effects of investment in the tourism sector and the use of the various instruments available to avoid the least desirable consequences. i think there is a lot of research to be done, but i agree with you, mrs kinnock, that we are not doing enough to think about this. i can therefore promise you that we will work on this because i believe that we can indeed provide the countries concerned with the know-how needed to ensure that investment in tourism meets a whole series of criteria corresponding to best practice. i will make a brief comment on this. at the moment i am preparing a concept which would be a kind of ethical label for private companies which receive and manage funds granted to them by the commission under the cooperation procedure. i shall soon have the opportunity to exchange views and to question the house on this matter. we could actually make a link between this label and the thinking i was talking about. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about sex tourism. it is proposed to re-establish the budget line devoted to combating sex tourism in order to ensure that resources are effectively allocated to this action. i would say that the reform of budget lines proposed by the commission in the 2007-13 financial perspective aims to create a more efficient and rational framework for the creation and management of these lines, to put an end to unnecessary fragmentation and to improve the setting of priorities within the lines themselves. the european parliament and civil society will be fully consulted on the implementation of this reform. i'm committed to it. a subject as important as the fight against sex tourism will certainly find its place in the theme of human and social development, alongside other issues such as the fight against aids, gender equality, training problems and social cohesion. in any case, you can be sure that we will, with great care and determination, try to put in place an arsenal of support instruments for developing countries that want to invest in tourism.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bowes, drawn up on behalf of the committee on development, on serious and neglected diseases in developing countries (a6-0215/2005) (ini, 2005/2047).
in writing. the project deserves the support of the european parliament. the philosophy of multilingual and multinational education applied in these schools can serve as a model for the education systems of the member states. still, the program is not without its flaws. the lack of uniform rules in all such centres on: the admission of applicants; the excessive number of children in the classrooms; the need for pupils to attend classes in a language other than their mother tongue; and the lack of recommendations on the education of pupils with fewer opportunities must be changed. in the light of the enlargement of the european union, attention should also be paid to the need to build similar schools in the new member states. the establishment of the european union agency for the protection of the external borders in warsaw and the need to educate the children of officials there should be an opportunity for this. such centres will play a significant role in promoting the idea of european integration among the next generations.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the subject of today's debate is one of the many tragedies of the modern world, where despite the marvelous progress of technology, modern technology, science, manufacturing, every seven minutes, it is estimated, a child dies of hunger. no one here has the slightest idea of the suffering of starving, of the humiliating poverty of adults and children, not only in niger and other countries in sub-saharan africa, but in many other places on earth. in niger alone, where drought and locust plague have left some five million people hungry and over a million, including children, at risk of starvation, this should be a serious matter of conscience not only for all of us but especially for those who are driven by the desire for unbridled profit, with market rules that impose limits on food production, who do not take into account inalienable human rights, human dignity and the requirements of the moral law. the propaganda of success that has been repeatedly proclaimed here is now an indictment of the actual globalization of poverty and the threat to the peaceful coexistence of nations, which will not be changed by debates like today's, or even by the humanitarian aid given by the particularly rich g8 countries, for whom africa has allegedly become a priority. the need for a long-term development policy and solidarity with the third world.
the author. mr. president! the development of relations between the european union and china in the commercial, economic, cultural and political spheres should be welcomed. china can become a strategic partner for the european union in shaping the new international order. at the same time, a genuine partnership must be based on a foundation of shared values. our friendly feelings towards china cannot fail to take account of the violation of human rights, political and trade union freedoms and the lack of democracy in the people's republic of china. the european parliament resolution draws attention to the violation of fundamental human rights in the people's republic of china in the area of religious freedom, particularly in relation to churches and christian denominations. we demand that the chinese authorities end their strict control and repression and harassment of religious groups, both christian and tibetan buddhist, among others, and islam. we are concerned about the situation of the roman catholic church, which has largely gone underground, and the situation of the protestant churches. we demand an explanation of the fate of the roman catholic bishops and the missing priests. we demand the release of all catholic priests and pastors of protestant churches who have been arrested and imprisoned, as well as all laymen who have been persecuted for their religious beliefs. the chinese authorities must ensure that article 36 of the constitution of the people's republic of china is respected, which guarantees freedom of religion in china. i would also like to draw attention to the information provided by reporters without borders about the sentencing of shi tao (an internet user) to ten years in prison by the changsha court on april 30 this year for disclosing a confidential state secret. shi tao, a reporter for the business newspaper dangdai shangbao, was found guilty of publishing online information contained in a confidential document from the central propaganda department that was sent to the editorial office before the 15th anniversary of the tiananmen square massacre. it is also necessary to clarify the role of the yahoo website in providing shi tao's identification data to the court.
the author. mr. president! it's become a sort of sad tradition that on thursday afternoons we're dealing with what the chinese government is doing not just to the chinese, but to everyone under their control. i remind you that we recently debated the human rights violations in tibet. it's a very delicate term - violation of human rights - when there are murders and imprisonments, when there are mass disappearances, when there are religious practices that are prevented, when there is no freedom at all. this is not a human rights violation, it's just a crime. for 60 years, we have been witnessing what is happening in china. of course, we in the former communist countries know very well (i personally remember from the first years of communism in poland) what communist authorities are inclined to do, regardless of whether they are in any way ideological, communist or not, because it is the same. it's just a wicked communist or post-communist dictatorship. he's after everyone. buddhists, muslims are being persecuted. the jews are persecuted, most persecuted... well, maybe not the most, because in tibet, the persecution of buddhists was just as brutal. christians are being persecuted, especially catholics, especially those who profess the fundamental principle of the catholic church, namely, communion with the universal church in the person of the pope. it leads to some schism, to the formation of a national church, which of course can not be agreed. the situation is getting worse instead of better. as we write in our resolution, there is an increase in arrests, an increase in torture, in unexplained disappearances, in prison system, in detention camps. the very word "concentration camp" should cause the strongest shivers here in europe, where we know the exploits of nazi germany and the russian communists. there are thirty years of diplomatic relations between the european union and china. this is the time for dialogue. what kind of dialogue is that? what is this dialogue about? a dialogue that is, we're on this thursday afternoon, when most of us are already driving home, making another resolution. but others who could have a significant impact on what happens in china are saying that the embargo needs to be eased. these voices come mainly from france and germany that the embargo is not working in a situation where we should isolate china as much as possible. it's not just the economic aspect, it's primarily the moral aspect. we, the european union, should make it clear that we do not agree to any business, to any dialogue with china. there can only be damnation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. last week, tang jaixuan, former chinese foreign minister, told the un high commissioner for human rights that each country should find its own way to promote and protect human rights and no one from outside should interfere. we cannot agree with that opinion. respect for fundamental human rights, including freedom of religion, is not an internal matter of china. this is the business of all who are not selfish or opportunistic. the importance of religious freedom is that it is possible even in countries where there is no democracy. in the 16th century, czechs, dutch, jews, they all emigrated to poland, not because poland was democratic, but because they could practice their religion without any obstacles. on the other hand, there have been and still are political systems that recognize only those representatives of various religions who support the view that all authority, even the worst, comes from god. china should not only respect freedom of religion, but also the independence of churches and religious associations. the secular authorities cannot influence who becomes the bishop of the catholic church or the 15th dalai lama or the 12th panchen lama. tibetan monks cannot be forced to participate in ideological training. the 87-year-old gongola lama says that in the training, these instructors teach the monks about love for our common chinese homeland, about obeying the law, and about the dangers of the dalai lama. some of the monks are forced to sign a document renouncing the spiritual and political leadership of the dalai lama. the history of the world is full of accounts of religious repression. it is worth remembering, however, that even under the worst of regimes, such repression has been ineffective. they won't work on china either. a man can be stripped of his job and property, imprisoned, exiled, crucified or gassed. neither the pope nor the dalai lama have "divisions", because the source of religious power is not the faithful or the priest, but the very nature of religion. in most religions, death is not a tragic end, but the beginning of a new life.
mr. chairman, the people's republic of china does not respect the principle of respecting the fundamental rights of the human individual. communist china has for many years failed to meet the simplest of world standards for freedom of speech, thought, action and creation. at the last eu-china ministerial meeting in may 2005, the union expressed concern about four aspects of human rights, in particular the need to release people still held in prison in connection with the 1989 pro-democracy movement, the need to reduce censorship imposed on the media, the need to reform the 'education through work' system and the need to ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights. added to this is the repression of the roman catholic church, which is not recognized by the government. the case of the victims of the tiananmen square massacre of 1989, where more than 126 families lost loved ones, remains unsolved. according to amnesty international, more than 50 people were arrested for posting politically sensitive information online by the end of the year alone. amnesty international reports that 3,400 people were executed in 2004 alone, and more than 6,000 are on death row. the numbers are frightening. the chinese government is blatantly committing extermination of the tibetan people, using fabricated evidence of lawlessness, unfair puppet trials, mass displacement of the tibetan population, in place of which it is relocating the chinese. over a hundred tibetan clerics are being held in chinese prisons for subversive activities. as the world watches, one of the oldest and greatest cultures of all time is dying. how many more events, how many more statistics, will it take for the world to stop ignoring the human rights violations in china? diplomatic moves don't have the desired effect. the union is facing a huge challenge. it depends on her action whether china can respond in a concrete way to the demands for a change in policy towards its people.
mr. chairman, please! the united nations is absolutely right to express concern about the human rights situation in syria. i fully support the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the syrian authorities to release political prisoners in that country, including our colleagues in the syrian parliament. syria must be forced to ratify the convention against torture in prison. however, i find it difficult to agree with the proposal in the draft that syria guarantee good treatment of detainees. if we know that these are political prisoners, we should demand that they be removed from the country, not accept the fact that they are there, and politely ask damascus not to treat them too cruelly. the absolute respect for human rights and their observance by syria must be the basis for the conclusion of an association agreement between that country and the union. it is difficult to imagine that in a country associated with us there are political prisoners, torture and other forms of anti-democratic repression, that religious minorities such as christians and jews are persecuted.
mr. chairman, please! president putin of russia and chancellor schröder of germany embracing in a tender embrace here's the view that accompanied the signing of the contract for the construction of a gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea. at a time when two issues are threatening the peace and security of the world economy, namely international terrorism and the rise in prices and instability in the energy markets, when everyone understands that this requires global cooperation, when the european union should give the world an example of collective wisdom and solidarity in action, chancellor schröder and president putin loudly and clearly declare that only the selfish interests of germany and russia matter to them. the failure to notify and consult the countries through whose maritime economic zone the pipeline is to pass is an expression of the attitude of both countries towards international maritime law. we firmly state that the pipeline agreement is directed against the member states of the european union poland, the baltic states and other countries, condemning them to the energy dictates of russia. the contract clearly suggests a connection... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr. chairman, please! the union's new seven-year budgetary period begins in 15 months. however, contrary to tradition and the accepted rules of the union, there is still no draft budget. the union is drifting in the budgetary ocean without the proverbial rudder. each month of delay creates unnecessary nervousness and tension, and suspicion between the old and the new union. the lack of a budget is also a bad signal from within the european union to our future members and to our external partners about the union's weakness, its lack of vision for the future, its lack of political will to shape that future together and in solidarity. this budgetary deadlock is not a draw, but a probable checkmate for the idea of a truly united europe, which is not divided into europe a and europe b according to criteria of wealth and criteria of different historical destinies. i call on the council of the union and the british presidency to complete their work on the union budget as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! poland has been in the union for two years now, and instead of improving, the situation of polish farmers is getting worse. the farmers of soft fruit - 50% of european production - potatoes - poland's number one in the union, cereals and fibre crops are on the verge of bankruptcy. the problems of the producers of pigmeat, milk and sugar beet are about to begin; poland is the third largest producer of beet in europe. the situation is understood by the members of parliament, and it is worse with the european commission, which disregards parliament and does not take its resolutions into account (this is the case, for example, with the report on starch production). the planned sugar reform is expected to bring down beet prices by more than 42%, making beet production unprofitable. the european commission is clearly more concerned about the soft fruit growers in morocco and china and the sugar producers in brazil than it is about the farmers and producers in the new member states. the question therefore arises: why do the european commission and the commissioner personally pursue policies which are unfavourable to farmers in the member states and disregard the resolutions of the european parliament?
mr. chairman, please! we have recently learned of the signing of a german-russian agreement on the construction of a northern gas pipeline through the baltic. it is, without a doubt, not only a very important economic arrangement, but also a political one. it was linked to the omission of poland and the baltic states and thus the national interest of the countries belonging to the same structure called the european union was seriously violated. this is already a further proof of the illusory nature of the union's common economic and foreign policy. already, the agreement signed by many journalists and politicians is being compared to the molotov-ribbentrop pact of 1939. i ask that germany, as a member state of the union, provide clarifications on this matter in the framework of the procedures in force and that the european parliament be informed of them.
mr. chairman, please! europe can be united, as the tragedy in portugal showed. but leaders sometimes behave selfishly, as indicated by the earlier meeting of mr chirac, mr schröder and mr putin in kaliningrad the strange russian land. then, the signing of the pipeline contract between schröder and putin. the argument of the latter is to secure energy for germany, but that is only half the truth. in doing so, mr schröder is supporting putin's policy of divide et impera, or softening the union. the european parliament should take a stand and give the full name of this act. europe needs decisions that go beyond the individual. without a coherent policy, we will not build europe, because that is like building a house of bricks without cement.
member of the commission. mr president, the historic events of august 1980 started the process which ended the cold war and led to the reunification of europe. the action led at that time by solidarność is a symbol of the value that all europeans attach to the shared values of freedom and solidarity. because of the courage and determination of the leaders of solidarność and the inspiration it provided to so many, the influence of the strike of shipyard workers in gdansk did not stop at the polish borders. it brought fresh sap to the many buds of dissent and democracy which were then burgeoning throughout central and eastern europe and which allowed the unification of our continent. as was mentioned by the president of the commission in gdansk on 31 august, 'solidarity' was an inspired choice of name for the union which was born from the strike in gdansk. it conveyed strength, determination and focus. solidarity is today one of the six titles of the european charter for fundamental rights. the remembrance of the events of august 1980 enriches this word with meaning and emotion. freedom was what solidarność fought for and it is today also closely associated with solidarity as a fundamental value shared by europeans. there is no europe without solidarity. solidarność is a meaningful symbol to remind future generations of europeans of this alliance. the commission has been happy to contribute to the commemorative events which took place in gdansk three weeks ago, to celebrate the 25th anniversary of these historic events, upon the invitation of the polish government and of the honourable members of this parliament. the commission will listen to the views of this house; and, be assured, will look favourably on initiatives aiming to mark 31 august with the seal of remembrance.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the solidarity movement had three meanings. first, for poland it meant the rejection of the foreign, soviet model. secondly, for central and eastern europe it marked the break with the yalta partition of europe after the second world war and, as a result, this part of europe was included in the european political history from which communism had been excluded. in this sense, from the events at the gdańsk shipyard to the berlin wall and the revolution in kiev, the path of the same evolution and liberation of europe is leading. the third significance for western europe solidarity was the great rediscovery of those values that had been lost to view by realpolitik values like freedom, solidarity, democracy, human dignity. solidarity has helped many people in western europe to understand that the fundamental values that solidarity spoke about must be implemented in a newly organised and united europe. the significance and message of these events goes beyond the experience of one nation. they are more universal and pan-european in nature. this is a message for european unity. if we consider the schuman plan to be the foundation of european integration, the postulates of the gdańsk shipyard are an important complement to this european idea. in their september 1981 message to the workers of central and eastern europe, the solidarity workers write of the sense of community of destiny which unites europeans in the eastern part of our continent. after 25 years, the same formula of a community of destiny appears in the preamble of the constitutional treaty, this time in relation to the enlarged european union. the solidarity movement draws attention to the value of solidarity itself as the basis of any system of trust and unity. solidarity, that is, the ability to bear one another's burdens, is, in the european union's view, the most practical expression of financial solidarity in security, solidarity in foreign policy. only through such solidarity can we achieve european unity.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in july and august 1980, workers in poland - in lublin, wybrzeże and many other cities - took strike actions, which at the end of august turned into a nationwide general strike, around the leadership of the inter-workers' strike committee headed by lech wałęsa at the gdańsk shipyard. the workers and the intelligentsia have risen in revolt for freedom, social justice and dignity. as in paris 200 years ago, the banners of europe once again bear the slogans of freedom, equality and fraternity. on august 31, an agreement was signed at the gdańsk shipyard, in which the state authorities agreed to implement 21 strike demands and which led to the creation of the independent self-governing trade union "solidarity". the general strike and solidarity's activities have become a symbol for workers around the world in the struggle for workers' rights, for a just society, for a better world. in eastern europe, solidarity set in motion a wave that led to a peaceful democratic revolution, to the victory of democracy and human rights, and became the beginning of the end - symbolized by the fall of the berlin wall - of the totalitarian system and the division of europe. twenty-five years later, in the european parliament in strasbourg, in the political heart of a united europe, i would like to pay tribute to the polish workers, to all those who rebelled against slavery and injustice, who formed the trade union "solidarity", especially those who continued their independent activities after the introduction of martial law in poland. i would like to pay tribute today to the peoples of central and eastern europe, to express my admiration for their struggle for democracy, human rights and national sovereignty. mr. chairman, we were not alone in this fight. we remember the support for solidarity from the international trade union movement, from the european community societies and from democratic governments. thank you, europe! i would like to thank all those europeans who stood by solidarity, who supported us in prison and underground in the struggle for freedom and democracy. the european union can be proud of this heritage, of this attempt at fraternity. this brotherhood is one of the foundations of european unity. in its programme, the 21 gdańsk statutes and the programme of the autonomous republic, solidarity presented a vision of a society and state combining freedom, respect for human rights and social justice. that vision has not lost its relevance. the solidarity programme can continue to inspire in a global context, in a europe that faces the challenge of building an efficient household and fair social conditions. solidarity today means rejecting poverty and slavery throughout the world, and it means that the european union must act to eradicate poverty in the world. solidarity today means an active european union foreign policy for democracy and human rights, it means helping those who are persecuted today because they belong to a minority.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to pay tribute to the polish workers who have initiated the process of liberation and unification of europe. i am moved and particularly grateful to see that the european parliament and the european commission are also aware of the significance of what happened on polish soil 25 years ago. polish workers understood the message of the polish pope: "do not be afraid". it was the polish workers who spoke out on behalf of a nation that wanted freedom, proving that those who thought that the proletariat did not have a homeland were wrong. the workers stood up for freedom and against the system and the system that was pretending to be workers. they came out with political demands, they wanted freedom, the creation of a free trade union as a representation of the workers, they wanted freedom of the press, freedom of the circulation of information, they also wanted freedom of the state structure, so that it was not under the rule of the party nomenclature. these were demands that expressed something that is the essence of europe, they were demands for freedom. even when the gdańsk shipbuilders were seeking to improve their own lot and that of their families, they were aware that their situation was the result of an imposed system - a system that the polish people never agreed to. and what did this great movement of ten million workers, peasants, intelligentsia, a movement that gathered the whole of polish society? he was able to bring about a revolution without violence, which was essentially an anti-totalitarian revolution. "nonviolence" is also a lesson for today. it was a movement that was made in the name of values. this word 'solidarity', which we are very pleased to see entering the language of politics, is a special word for us, a polish word, and is also a polish contribution to the european idea. mr president, i would like to say that the unification of europe began in gdańsk, that the union of eastern and western europe began with the gdańsk workers' movement and that following poland, following the solidarity movement, nations were born for the concept of solidarity, they demanded freedom. we have a sense of pride, but above all solidarity with those who brought freedom in georgia in the rose revolution, with those who brought freedom in ukraine in the orange revolution. we hope that the example of non-violence and negotiation to change the system so that european ideas are implemented will continue to be relevant. i am convinced that it is very important for europe that the european union today, in its search for identity, also wants to define the path of the people who worked for european freedom. it's the people, the men and women who ended the cold war, who made it possible for europe to be united. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the 25th anniversary of the founding of polish solidarity is not just an opportunity to commemorate this event, which marked the beginning of the road to european unity. it is also an opportunity to recall the fundamental truth about the actions of people and nations, and the moral and political foundations of the european union. 'there is no freedom without solidarity' was the slogan that inspired millions of solidarity members in 1980-81 and during the martial law. we have seen very clearly that human solidarity is the basis of this solidarity with capital letters, the guarantee of its success and even its survival. "there is no freedom without solidarity" is also true about how western politicians and societies have supported poles in their struggle for state sovereignty and democracy. the slogan is a reminder of the campaign "poland be polish", the campaign "solidarity with solidarity", as well as the material aid that the union and its activists, as well as millions of poles, received from citizens of western countries. believe me, because i have experienced it myself, the political, moral and material support of the western people who are in solidarity with us, has given us hope, has given us the feeling that our efforts are not hopeless and that we are not alone. i would like to take this opportunity today, from the rostrum of the european parliament, to express my sincere thanks to all the people of good will who have shown their solidarity with us. the lessons of solidarity, both the capital and the lower case, are relevant today, but also in a more general sense. "there is no freedom without solidarity" also means that freedom is not an end in itself. in the economic sense, freedom is essential, but without solidarity, it leads to the enrichment of the rich and the impoverishment of the poor, and it affects individual economies and the european union as a whole. freedom without a moral perspective can easily turn into anarchy or a new form of slavery. freedom without solidarity is arbitrary, and sooner or later it will be destroyed by the individual or by the community. freedom without solidarity breaks down the family and the society. those who try to achieve freedom without solidarity, without the basic values of the right to life, justice, honesty, disregard the rights of other people and undermine the community, and ultimately threaten freedom as well. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! a quarter of a century ago, polish solidarity was born. this peaceful nonviolent movement has proven to be as effective as the movement of the great mahatma gandhi decades earlier. that one brought ultimately the independence of india, this one the sovereignty of poland and the freedom of the poles, but not only that. it was solidarity that had just started the peaceful revolution in central and eastern europe. nine years after the "breakdown" of solidarity, the velvet revolution in the czech republic followed, and the berlin wall was torn down. but the roots of this story go back to 1980, to gdansk, poland. solidarity is not only a union of ten million people, representing almost 40% of the adult population of my country, it is also a movement for democratic freedoms, free media, free elections, religious freedom. i am polish, so i am not necessarily objective, but i am convinced that solidarity is one of the most important events in our common european history of the 20th century. today, 25 years later, as a pole and a european, i bow to solidarity, which has helped my country and the surrounding nations to achieve freedom. this freedom is not perfect, we have many economic and social problems, but the most important thing is that this freedom is a fact and that we can clean up our own house. for that, i thank today the many millions of nameless people who work in my homeland. we in poland, we in europe are in your debt, in solidarity's debt.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. it is solidarity that has allowed me to be here today, to be with you, to not live behind the iron curtain. without solidarity, the berlin wall would have fallen later or would still be standing. earlier, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia tried to overthrow this "devilish" system. only the poles and the polish pope succeeded in putting an end to the yalta agreements. i thank the countries of western europe and the united states for their help today, but i also remember that it was not only stalin who was to blame, but that churchill and roosevelt sold half of europe to the soviets in yalta for the sake of peace, for their own comfort. solidarity's example shows how many years it takes to correct mistakes. today, with the consent of parliament, the european union opens negotiations with turkey. i fear that this will be the beginning of the end of the union, and that is a pity, because i am very much in favour of a united europe. let us be in solidarity with the whole world, but let us not sell europe in the name of internationalism.
mr. chairman, please! i want to tell my colleague the speaker that at no cost would these workers and others want to go back to the pre-solidarity period. there are few words and events that one would like to speak of with pleasure and pride, especially in this place. solidarity, i think, is a concept that deserves a special place in all encyclopedias. being in solidarity is not an easy thing. you often have to sacrifice personal, national and perhaps higher interests. the european union is not as cohesive as a nation or an ethnic group, and sometimes as a political one. that's why it needs a concerted effort. only through the determination and solidarity of workers, students, farmers, professors, and sometimes the fearless police and officers, through the solidarity of people from outside the country, could the totalitarian landlords be forced to relinquish power and restore decent values by normally thinking people. if we can afford to recognize the importance of the solidarity movement, and moreover, if we take advantage of this historical lesson, then we can hope for the implementation of the laws voted here, hope for the successive construction of a coordinated organism called the union. europe is too complex and diverse to be achieved without solidarity. solidarity must be promoted here in the commission, in school curricula, in cultural programmes, and it must be inculcated in europeans, while at the same time building a wider, transcontinental solidarity to solve the cardinal problems of humanity. without solidarity, there is no future for europe or for humanity. solidarity 1980 started in świdnik and lublin. it's led to us being here today in this house to speak for the cardinal values. the present european solidarity is the condition for members of parliament to be able to speak of this parliament, of the commission, as actors in the historic process in which we are involved, 25 years from now.
mr. chairman, please! solidarity was a remarkable experience of a community that grew up on shared values and a trust in freedom. in august 1980, polish workers demanded freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and above all the right to form free trade unions and to stop repressing their beliefs. millions of poles said "no" to communism and that was the beginning of the end of the communist dictatorship. with determination and belief that freedom can be fought against all global political constraints, we called on the nations of eastern europe to take the path of civil liberties, that was the building of civil society. millions of people were involved together in solidarity in the life of their own country, a free country for those 16 months until december 13, when the communist dictatorship of jaruzelski broke this movement with a military coup. we lived as free men, and that spirit was no longer broken and held back. it was in august 1980 at the gdańsk shipyard that communism was shaken to collapse 9 years later in 1989. on our way we met with the solidarity of the european nations, with the support of the french, germans, italians, english, it gave us courage and confidence in our own strength and for that i would like to thank our friends of that time, it was thanks to your help that we survived, because we knew that europe remembers us and will not forget us. to what extent can ideas of solidarity still stimulate consciences and hearts today? today, the question of solidarity is also a question of what europe is. europe is not just an economy and a market, but also the values that make up the european community. europe is a family of nations built on the christian heritage, and it was christianity that laid the foundations of solidarity, which sought to awaken the best in people: responsibility for one another, a willingness to help those in need. the solidarity ethos could contribute to building a modern vision of europe that would be of interest to the world. the question of solidarity today is also the question of how to overcome national egoism among the 25 countries that make up the union. i believe it is possible. i believe in a european solidarity union that can be competitive, but also solidarity in supporting the weak and the poor at the same time, holding high the banner of solidarity and freedom, being an inspiration to those who lack these values. (laughter)
i have received four draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
solidarity is not a polish heritage. solidarity, its values and ethos, should become the heritage of europe and indeed of the world. that is why it is so important that solidarity becomes a permanent part of our european consciousness. 25 years ago, the workers of gdańsk, as we say in the resolution, opened a new chapter in the european struggle for freedom and bread. workers from my hometown of poznan started this fight 49 years ago. on june 28, 1956, dozens of them were killed by communists. they died for freedom and bread. their deaths, like those of the workers in december 1970, were not in vain. the global significance of solidarity is that it was a peace movement, and at the same time a victorious one. the history of solidarity is one of optimism and faith, for it has proved that even communist totalitarianism can be overcome without violence. for all people living under oppression, it would be good if the methods and values of solidarity became an effective way to fight for freedom, dignity and human rights. solidarity has shown that hope for a better life makes sense, and perseverance and loyalty to principles bring results. i am convinced that there would be no eu-25 without what lech walesa and his friends did 25 years ago.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr alexander radwan on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions (com ((2004) 0486 - c6-0141/2004 - 2004/0155 ((cod)) and on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions (com ((2004) 0486 - c6-0144/2004 - 2004/0159 ((cod)) (a6-0257/2005).
mr. chairman, please! a series of recent scandals, such as those involving enron and parlamat, have weakened the confidence of investors as well as consumers. the scale of these scandals was alarming and they involved all kinds of fraud. in this situation, the commission's initiative is most welcome. the commission's draft legislative inquiry is the result of many years of preparation, taking into account the recommendations of 2000 and 2002. this directive will replace the 8th directive on statutory auditors of 1984, which only contains rules on the accreditation of auditors but does not mention an audit, supervision or external quality control procedure. the draft new directive clearly defines the tasks of statutory auditors and lays down certain ethical principles to ensure their professionalism and independence, i.e. integrity, objectivity, professional competence, confidentiality and professional secrecy and general responsibility. the commission's proposal on the principle of rotation between firm and partner was one of the most controversial issues that aroused the most emotion. the rotation principle is generally to be welcomed as it ensures independence and promotes objective assessment. the downsides of rotation are the extra costs, the loss of know-how and, therefore, the risk of error. the audit firm should change at least every seven years and the interval between assignments should be at least two years. a balance needs to be struck between reducing the risk of fraud, ensuring healthy competition and a high level of service quality. the approach presented in the report appears to be a balanced and reasonable solution to the issue of assuring audit quality while ensuring the independence of the auditor. in conclusion, i would like to stress that our aim should be to restore confidence in the market, as well as to strengthen shareholder rights, investment security and the competitiveness of european companies.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking all the speakers for their remarks. i would like to comment on a number of points, beginning with the one raised by mrs fraga concerning licence fees. the rebalancing of costs is not something which is new. if one looks at the evolution of this since the mid-1980s, one finds that until the mid-1990s the share ratio was 80:20. then, from the mid 1990s up to the present day, the share ratio changed to 75:25. we are introducing a new sharing of costs of 65:35. i can say that the commission's decision to increase the tuna fee paid by shipowners is justified in several respects, including the need to increase the financial responsibility of ec shipowners and guarantee a fair contribution for the coastal state. as indicated in the council's conclusions of july 2004, this contribution must be fair, balanced and non-discriminatory. the 35:65 share is already applied in all the tuna agreements concluded in the pacific, including kiribati and the solomon islands and the federated states of micronesia, and the member states concerned did not object to this. by the time of the renewal of the ec-seychelles protocol last september the commission had already announced to the council's external group that it intended to adopt the 35:65 ratio. during negotiations, the seychelles asked the commission to delay this change in order to avoid distortion of competition with the tanzania agreement, which is soon to enter into force and under the initial phase of which the applicable ratio will still be 25:75. the ec/seychelles agreement therefore maintained the 25:75 ratio, but a formula was agreed under which the transition to the 35:65 ratio will take effect in the near future. harmonisation of the 35:65 ratio in other fisheries agreements will be introduced in 2006. the same 35:65 ratio will be introduced in the other fisheries agreements in the area, those with mauritius and madagascar, which will be negotiated in 2006. in addition, the commission intends to hold a meeting with the tuna sector by the end of 2005, to discuss all relevant issues. i also underline and repeat that there is constant dialogue with the sector, within the framework of the special sectoral group, and i will see to it that this dialogue is further intensified. i will also see what can be done to minimise as far as possible the delays in making payments to third parties. on the point raised by mrs corbey, may i point out that all agreements are undertaken further to an assessment of the health of fish stocks. let me cite the recent morocco agreement, where the commission showed how seriously it takes its obligations by first undertaking a scientific assessment, in accordance with the new policy for the fisheries partnership agreements. the agreement was then targeted on what one may term 'the excess stock'. in other words, the fish that can be caught sustainably, beyond what local fishermen can themselves catch. so the agreement only covers that excess stock of fish within the limits of sustainability. this policy is being adopted and applied to all fishery partnership agreements. i thank mr schlyter for his support with regard to the rebalancing of the costs. i also thank mr medina ortega for his support with regard to the new partnership agreement on fisheries and i will see to it that everything is done to limit unnecessary red tape. i would also like to thank him for the insights stemming from his direct experience of fisheries in the comoros and the indian ocean. in reply to mrs goudin, this agreement envisages a development segment under which the union not only benefits from fishing rights but is obliged to assist in the fisheries sector of the comoros. this is a new element of the partnership agreements which is being introduced to all agreements with third countries.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr wolfgang kreissl-dörflera on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the amended proposal for a council directive laying down minimum standards on the procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the member states (14203/2004 - c6-0200/2004 - 2000/0238 (cns)) (a6-0222/2005).
we'll call our services to ensure that the translation is provided. we're really sorry about that.
mr. chairman, please! i am very much in favour of the right of every applicant to be granted political asylum, with due regard for human dignity and international conventions, and to be granted it if he meets the conditions or refused it. children should be given special care. but it should be noted that there are not many genuine asylum seekers, for example, in belgium, i met many asylum seekers, but none of them really met the conditions. on the contrary, true political activists are reluctant to leave their country, having much to do there. the asylum issue is 90% hidden immigration, and it's not always for economic reasons, but mostly for psychological, humanitarian reasons. why not? why not? accepting these immigrants, but calling things by their right names, distinguishing between asylum and immigration, will allow for better processing of asylum claims and better immigration control.
mr. chairman, please! i want to join in congratulating your rapporteur. the aim of the directive we are talking about is to build a simple, clear, effective and at the same time humanitarian system which will allow refugees to be treated in the european union according to uniform minimum standards, but with respect for human rights. this directive is necessary because not even all the member states of the european union have their own national systems for treating refugees. immigration, asylum, refugees are problems of the entire union, of all countries, whether they take in hundreds or thousands of refugees. a refugee who applies in poland is not only a polish problem, this refugee should be of interest to countries that are far from poland, because he will be moving, therefore the refugee problem and policy is a european problem and should be treated as such at the european level. i think that we are making one mistake in this directive, and that mistake is our fear or even our phobia of terrorism. we can't just look at every refugee as a potential terrorist. we must balance our natural, legitimate concern for our own safety with the natural hospitality of europeans. secondly, the european parliament cannot be a passive observer in the creation of asylum policy. today, i am surprised to find that it is the european parliament that must defend respect for international law. here in this room, we point out that the refugee convention is not respected, that the additional protocol of 1967 is not taken into account either. we have a chance to correct these voting mistakes by passing the amendments. we should adopt this directive because it is the safety valve that europe needs there are millions of refugees waiting for it, and we in parliament can help them by ensuring minimum standards and decent treatment.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank all those who have spoken. i have taken note of their comments. there are certainly non-negotiable values in europe, and protecting the life and dignity of every person is an institutional, but above all a moral, duty for us, and in this respect i thank the rapporteur for having emphasized this and other speakers for having clearly repeated it. i believe that the european union must recognize and protect this basic right of those who are actually fleeing persecution or war, but i said those who are actually fleeing; i would like to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and that it is not possible to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. it is a question of credibility, and the european strategy requires precise laws and reliable methods of enforcing them: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both, i believe, can be met if we give ourselves transparent laws, clear rules for enforcing them, no more gray areas between what is allowed and what is not allowed. that is why the directive can and must enter into force as soon as possible. we could thus avoid, ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of the legislative differences between member states which often result in different treatment for people in the same situation. this is also a serious infringement, a person in one member state is in the same situation as another in another member state, and yet the treatment is different. this is a serious injustice which the directive can somehow reduce and eliminate. that is why european action is needed, and i think that is right, although, as many of you have realistically observed, it is difficult to imagine the council fully reopening the debate on the substance. many of you, including mr fava and mr lambert, have raised a very important question: the european list of safe countries. i am aware that there are problems with the legal basis, and i am well aware that there is a strong request from the council that the consultation procedure alone be used in determining the list. i believe and i am personally in favour of working with parliament, regardless of the formal legal basis for determining this list of safe countries. there are formal legal problems with a legal basis, but there are substantive political problems and i am referring to different matters, the fundamental rights agency, the question of data retention, i.e. issues on which i have proposed to this parliament, beyond the formal legal bases, to follow a political and substantive interinstitutional agreement. why not explore the possibility of working together, council and parliament, on a subject which is objectively sensitive - as mr coelho has also said? i quite frankly agree with many of the comments that have been made, it is hard to imagine that after four years of negotiations the council would simply remove that assumption from the list of safe countries. but then let us try to give it, in my view, a political impetus which involves parliament much more than parliament has been involved so far! i would therefore like to conclude by once again calling for a vote in favour of the directive, since a vote in favour would mean giving substance to the idea of european solidarity which mr busuttil recently recalled: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that parliament has the opportunity to give such a political response.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the next item is the commission statement on the eu-us wine agreement.
mr president, i would like to refer to the principle that parliament defends democracy and the rule of law. if we know that the cypriot constitution provides that before the public prosecutor can address parliament he must seek the opinion of the supreme court, we must check that. they say he didn't do it. i do not think that parliament can vote on a motion which is contrary to the legal order of the member state.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the implementation of cohesion policy is a direct consequence of the provisions of the treaty establishing the european community. it states that it is the community's aim to reduce disparities in the levels of development of individual regions and the degree of backwardness of less-favoured areas. this also applies to rural areas and peripheral regions. so it's good that we're taking up this very important subject. i thank both rapporteurs for their work. cohesion policy is not just about implementing the treaty. it's a manifestation of far-sightedness and strategic action. it is also a sign of solidarity within the union. of course, when we talk about territorial cohesion, we should not see a pseudo-equalisation of the type 'everyone should have everything and equally'. that is not the equality of citizens that we must effectively take care of. the diversity of member states and their regions also requires diversity in the cohesion policy pursued by the union. this policy must be a continuous process with sufficient time horizons, territorial coverage and commonly agreed objectives. it also has to have, and i want to stress this very strongly, adequate financial security. otherwise, it becomes a buzzword. in this context, they are concerned about the difficulties in adopting the financial perspective for 2007-13. these delays and the actual threat of a reduction in the union budget can have very serious consequences. i also think we should go back to good source material that has a neutral political dimension, such as the work referred to by the rapporteur europe 2000 plus. of course, it needs an update. the priorities of the european community strategic guidelines published by the commission in july should, once adopted by parliament and the council, provide the basis for a truly coherent preparation by the member states of forward-looking documents, the so-called national strategic reference frameworks. i consider the priorities set out therein to be generally appropriate. the urban aspect, which mr beaupuy has just mentioned, is particularly important in view of the role played by local metropolitan centres and the importance of entrepreneurship and the knowledge-based economy. i would also point out that there is a need for actual, rather than merely declaratory, coordination of work on the various union documents. the proposal that a white paper on territorial cohesion could be drawn up quickly should be treated with great responsibility. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the end of the year. the recently published figures on expenditure from the union's coffers last year show that the list of net beneficiaries in terms of gdp is led by the countries of the old fifteen: greece, portugal. the new countries are way behind. i would add that, even in absolute terms, this list starts with spain. i am not talking about discrediting anyone in any way, but about dispelling the myth of the extraordinarily large funds flowing to the new member states. mr president, there is no good prospect for our community without a properly run cohesion policy. there is no european cohesion without european solidarity.
mr. chairman, please! the european community's strategic objective, which has been repeatedly cited by the advocates of integration, is to reduce the disparities in the level of development of europe's regions. this was and is a particular concern of the societies of the new member states. territorial cohesion, alongside economic and social cohesion, is becoming important in achieving this objective. given the differences in development in the 25 and soon 27 member states, action in the areas of transport, tourism, environment, innovation and research is particularly important. the territorial balance can be achieved by strengthening the ranking of medium and small urban centres. spatial planning in these areas should take into account the development of housing resources, the transport network and the revitalization of post-industrial areas. this will also benefit the peripheral and rural areas. today, dynamic economic and spatial development is only taking place within the largest urban centres, the metropolises. this is unfortunately done without considering the development needs of smaller units and consequently increases development inequalities rather than eliminating them. the satisfactory development of the territory of all the member states of the union is possible only through the application of a decentralised spatial development model. the key feature of this model is that it is based on a network of cities with different economic, social and cultural potential. the second important feature is the model's enduring links with rural areas. the lublin region, from which i come, is one of the largest in poland it covers 8% of the country's area and is home to 5% of the polish population. there are 40 cities in the lublin region, mostly medium-sized and small, the largest being lublin, the capital of the region: about 400 thousand inhabitants, the rest number between 70 and 20 thousand inhabitants. more than half of the region's inhabitants are rural. in addition, the unsatisfactory level of infrastructure in the lublin region could be an example of how territorial cohesion could be applied in practice in a decentralised manner. it is therefore to be hoped that the actions of the eu decision-makers will not be reduced once again to declarations of wishes and goodwill, but must take the form of concrete findings and figures in the eu budget for the coming years and in the long-term financial perspective.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. this debate is particularly important for the new member states of the union, including my own country, poland. in short, any changes to the policy of equalizing the opportunities of the poorer member states of the union must not affect the new member states. if the union is to be solidary, if it is to be united in practice, it must, as before, take account of the aspirations of the new members. at the same time, this policy must take greater account than hitherto of the needs of medium-sized and small towns and regions. in practice, eu grants and funds have so far often gone to the metropolis - which is of course justified - but have bypassed smaller, and even more deserving, local government structures. i am afraid that the proposals for change that we have heard over the last year are only intended to extend the financial hand to the less prosperous countries of the old union. we have no objection to this, but we want to make use of the existing opportunities and resources for helping new members. i am confident that you will be the guardian of equal opportunities in europe. i wish you would; in that area you can always count on our support.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's social and economic cohesion policy, which has been in place for 30 years, has had a significant impact in reducing disparities in development between european regions. this does not mean, of course, that the development of europe's strongest and most dynamic regions is being weakened, but on the contrary: it means that the development potential of the weakest regions is being increased and their chances of becoming competitive are being increased. the recent enlargement of the european union, as well as the enlargements to follow, have given the european union new challenges, including the need to adapt cohesion policy to new conditions and challenges. the new conditions that have arisen in the enlarged european union require that the existing measures for social and economic cohesion be extended to include horizontal measures, with greater emphasis on the need to reduce disparities between the centre and the periphery, between metropolitan areas and medium-sized and small towns, and between towns and rural areas. the new conditions also require that the disparities between the above communities be addressed with greater involvement of authorities at subnational levels. the reduction of the democratic deficit cannot take place without the active participation of representatives of regional and local communities in the implementation of community policies. it should be recalled that in january 2003 the european parliament adopted a resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european union, in which it stated that local and regional authorities should be more closely involved not only in the implementation of eu policies but also in the preparation of those policies. the extension of cohesion policy to territorial cohesion confirms that cohesion policy, pursued throughout the european union, is one of the main policies of the european union, without which it will be extremely difficult to achieve the objectives of other community policies. i would add that the requirement that should be more clearly defined in community regulations is partnership, both between authorities at different levels and their interaction with each other, which increases the efficiency of the use of european financial instruments.
mr. chairman, please! territorial cohesion one of the strategic and key objectives of the european union to promote harmonious and uniform development is still a dream. especially after the recent enlargement with the addition of ten countries that are much poorer, we see the great disparities in development between the regions. comparing the inner london region of the uk, which accounts for nearly 270% of the eu average gdp, with the lublin region of poland, for example, which accounts for only 30% of the eu average gdp, we can see how much more needs to be done. the european union needs a community cohesion strategy and the territorial dimension should be taken into account in the implementation of each of the community policies. all dimensions of territorial cooperation, whether cross-border, interregional or transnational, need to be significantly strengthened. expand cooperation and partnerships between urban centres, peri-urban areas and rural areas. in a european union of solidarity, regional development must be based on programmes which ensure equal treatment between regions, which in practice means adequate access for their inhabitants to public services and services of general economic interest. we know that we are still far from achieving this goal. the lack of a decision on the size of the future union budget and the absence of a new financial perspective is all the more worrying. the union's territorial cohesion needs to be improved and the european parliament should strengthen its role in monitoring progress towards genuine territorial cohesion. otherwise, the disparities between the regions will only increase. let us build a europe that is united and united, not divided into rich and poor.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking mr guellec for his report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development, which is being discussed at a time when the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is still being worked out and when the council is considering reducing the european union's regional policy. i hope that this debate will help ensure that the amount of regional policy funds proposed by the commission for the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is not reduced, particularly in relation to the new member states. i would also like to emphasise, as the rapporteur has done, the role of territorial cohesion in regional development. i come from the mazowska region, which is the richest region in poland, as evidenced by the highest gdp per capita, but also the most internally diverse. according to estimates of the level of gdp per capita, mazowsze may exceed 75% of the average gdp per capita in the european union in the seven-year period 2014-2020 and may be eliminated from the support of the structural funds. in a situation where many areas of the region will continue to be characterised by a very low level of development. i am talking about mazowiec, but there will be many other regions in the old and new member states in a similar situation. i hope therefore that the european union will develop additional instruments that can be used in such a situation, and that territorial cohesion will be of great importance in the future regional policy of the european union. finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for drawing attention to the role of spatial planning in territorial cohesion. this problem is often underestimated in regional development programming.
member of the commission. we are talking about the budget for 2007-13, which, as the honourable member knows, is the subject of an interinstitutional agreement and negotiations involving the three institutions on the basis of a proposal which the commission has put forward. although the commission is involved in the negotiations, it defends - if i may say so - its proposal. the commission has no power to decide how potential cuts to the total budget will be distributed and no decision on how the budget cut is distributed between individual titles within cohesion policy. each such global cut also leads to a modification of the components of the overall budget. i can say that the luxembourg presidency, which in june proposed a budget for cohesion policy that was reduced by about 10% compared with what the commission had proposed, also disproportionately affected the specific objectives of cohesion policy by this reduction. objective i, which covers the poorest regions, was cut by around 6%; objective ii, which aims to build competitive regions and create new jobs, saw its budget cut by around 18%, while the biggest cut was made to cohesion policy's objective iii, european territorial cooperation, where it was cut by 50%. i'm talking about a reduction in relation to the commission's proposal. this is of course essentially a very disproportionate burden for the old and new member states. in the union, 80% of this reduction was for the 15 old member states, the other 20% for the new member states.
i'm speaking up to show that it's not just the greeks who are trying to reason with you, commissioner. thank you very much for your very competent, substantive and specific reply, commissioner. my question was an expression of the concern of many members about how regional policy will be shaped in the new budget. i'm quitting right now to prove to the speaker that there are men in this room who can quit at the right time so that you don't have to use that terrible tool you have.
member of the commission. the commission is aware that the polish soft fruit sector has had major problems in the last two years, owing to the low prices of several of the products in question. following the presidency's conclusions concerning the simplification of the common organisation of the market for fruit and vegetables in november 2004, the commission started several months ago to carry out an analysis of the community market for soft fruit intended for processing, with a view to making appropriate proposals to address the specific problems. as part of those investigations, missions were organised to several member states. in poland, these took place in april and july. the work will be completed by the end of the year and will be published by the commission at the beginning of 2006. obviously, it will be necessary to await the conclusions of this work before starting discussions on any possible measures. in addition, at poland's request, the commission has initiated a safeguard investigation concerning the import of frozen strawberries. the investigation is ongoing and no conclusion has been drawn at this stage.
i'm not going to let you down. i would like to begin by thanking you personally and the commission very warmly for your interest in this problem - an important problem in poland. the only thing that worries me about this case is the long, drawn-out decision-making process. our first interventions on this matter were back in 2004. unfortunately, in 2005, we had another year where this problem not only didn't decrease, it actually increased. i have a question for you: will this problem be solved before the 2006 harvest season?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in my political group we have been considering the draft package, guided essentially by concern for the place of rail in the transport systems of the european union, for its capacity for development. we have treated the liberalization we talk about so much as a means, not an end. many questions have been asked about how to achieve this goal of increasing rail transport. and so we have to remember that the european union is a union of 25 countries, that there are railways of new countries, railways that are relatively weaker, railways that are in the process of restructuring. so you can't change too fast, you need evolution. we warned against a situation where the strong take over the smaller railways, where the market is taken over, and with the takeover of the market, the public service obligation is also taken over. the question is: can we not bring about a situation where the monopoly of a large railway in one of the countries of the union is replaced or extended to a monopoly of the same railway but in several countries? are there any barriers that we're looking at? we didn't see any barriers at the time. commissioner, we have aviation, we have road transport, which are successful in europe, but in addition to liberalisation, deregulation has also been applied. the railways also need an approach that reconciles their market and public service functions. i'm the co-author of a compromise with mr. george jarzembowski regarding the amendment of the 440 directive. this compromise is more radical than the submission to the commission, so i would like to hear if the commissioner does not think that our compromise goes perhaps too far? should we not therefore limit ourselves to a proposal to the commission which would only concern international transport? our concern is really about the quality of the transport services. for example, let's compare a flight between warsaw and brussels: a flight by loto or air brussels will take you to national airport in 2 hours for 300 euros, a low-cost flight for 120 euros to charleroi airport; a first-class train 150 euros in 18 hours, a car in 13 hours without breaking the rules, the fuel cost is 150 euros, but i can take 4 people. so, is this utility not going to be important, too?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. i also thank mr jarzembowski and the other members who have been involved in the work on the whole railway package. i would like to draw particular attention to the preparation of the report on the draft directive on the development of the community's railways. the committee on transport and tourism has repeatedly expressed its disagreement with the dates and scope proposed by the rapporteur for the opening of the rail passenger market. my voice, as someone who knows the specifics and the insufficient preparation of the railways of the new member states to compete in the free market with the large, powerful countries of western europe, was also heard. i'm not against liberalizing the transport market, but i'm for competition on equal terms. i repeat, i am not in favour of liberalising services, but of equal rights which will protect the smaller carriers and thus prevent the emergence of monopolies in the future and provide healthy and fair competition for the big players in this market. i therefore believe that the acceleration of market liberalisation proposed by mr jarzembowski for 2008 (and i am referring to the opening up of international transport, including cabotage) is not acceptable to parliament if we want to implement the union's policy of equal rights and fair competition, which gives the new member states time to reach the standards of experienced carriers from germany, england or france. as vice-chairman of the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament, i ask the members to support the original version of the european commission with regard to the dates and scope of liberalisation, namely the opening of international transport without cabotage from 2010, and thus reject the report by mr jarzembowski, since the proposal voted in the committee on transport to open up this market in the version proposed by the rapporteur does not take into account the situation in the new member states.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the debate over the european constitution in recent months has shown that the european union should take account of the interests of the citizens of the member states when it adopts legislation. it is also necessary to analyse existing legal acts and to assess the effects of their entry into force, including the financial impact. the european commission has proposed that international passenger transport be liberalised from 2010, while mr jarzembowski's proposal proposes that this deadline be brought forward by two years and liberalised from 2008. this means that carriers currently operating in poland or other new member states will lose a significant part of the market. these countries have an under-invested rail infrastructure, lack of modern rail transport, insufficient financing of regional transport. the additional reduction in the transitional periods for international services will increase the negative impact of the new regulations on the transport companies of the new members, as there is currently insufficient support from european funds for the purchase of modern passenger rolling stock, and the countries that joined the union on 1 may 2004 are not able to finance such significant expenditure. the liberalisation of services, which will ultimately benefit the citizens of the union, now requires the provision of adequately prepared infrastructure and technical operational quality. this means that the new member states will have to undergo extremely costly restructuring and investment measures, and that the next five years will have to be maintained, as proposed by the commission, to level the playing field on the european transport market. let's give the rail sector enough time to revitalize. mr president, commissioner barrot, i have to tell you something. the liberalisation of the railway market should be accompanied by a major european project to link the west with the east and the north with the south of europe by high-speed rail. it will be the best project to show the unity of our continent and to show the usefulness of the european institutions, including the european commission and the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, for his comprehensive report on the liberalisation of the state railways. this report is particularly important for the new member states. as a polish member of parliament, i would like to share with you just two brief observations. firstly, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the first two railway packages have not yet been fully implemented in some member states, which, together with the lack of a comprehensive assessment of them, makes the discussion of the third railway package very difficult. secondly, as regards the third railway package, i cannot help feeling that it is based largely on the experience of the old member states, without taking account of the specific features of the new countries, and i am thinking in particular of the report by the honourable member which, in relation to the commission's proposal, accelerates the liberalisation of passenger transport from 2010 to 2008 and extends the scope of liberalisation to include cabotage. anyone who knows the reality of passenger transport in the new member states will be aware that this is a very unfavourable solution. it should not be forgotten that the new member states are much less competitive than the old ones and are largely characterised by a lack of modern rolling stock, under-investment in rail infrastructure and insufficient financing of regional transport. the extension of the scope of liberalisation and the acceleration of the deadline will therefore undoubtedly weaken the already weak position of the new member states, especially as the commission does not foresee sufficient support from eu funds for the purchase of modern passenger rolling stock. the railways of the new member states, on the other hand, are not in a position to finance such a large expenditure. the consequence of such considerations is that the strong will dominate the weak, and i think that is not the foundation on which the european union should be built. the union, ladies and gentlemen, is not domination, but on the contrary, joint and united action for the sake of a strong europe without any division between the weaker and the stronger.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to start by joining mr. racco's voice. it is true that the day in this parliament is spent making beautifully sounding statements that do little, and late at night we change the law european reality. i'd like to reverse that order and make a law in the sunshine and with an audience. it would be very nice to debate and enjoy mr jarzembowski's excellent report, if it were not for the fact that it cannot be discussed in a vacuum. and this context is not just french dislike of polish plumber, butcher, baker. it is also a resistance to the services directive or an opposition to intra-eu relocation. we are being rejected as small entrepreneurs from local european markets, and we are being asked to prepare a giant entrance for european locomotives with thousands of passengers who will pay for their tickets in euros, not in zloty. and of course we are expected to do it willingly, because we are for the opening of the market, aren't we? there is another context - the technical state of the polish railways. we didn't have the time or the money to make up for years of delay. liberalisation of transport will put us in a losing position from the top. in this battle, we must give up the field. and again, we're expected to do it willingly, because we're all for opening up the market, right? solidarity, or at least ordinary symmetry, is almost non-existent. forgive me for confessing, but in this situation i don't know how i'm going to vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. every enlargement of the european union has been a cause for excitement, but none of the enlargements to date has been as much of a concern to europeans as the turkish enlargement. this could mean that europeans will not agree to this enlargement today or in the future, and this could mean that building the mirage of full membership for turkey in the european union is in fact building a huge disappointment and shock for the government in ankara. when we first spoke about turkey in december 2004, i pointed out that all the benefits of close economic, political, military relations with turkey could be achieved without full membership - that's pretty obvious. there's dozens of pages written about it. today, i'd like to point out another problem with this expansion. the problem is the loss of the geographical and political balance of enlargement. the rejection of croatia's membership prospect, the avoidance of a declaration on ukraine's european vocation while turkey is making progress in this process, is shocking. it is something that is shocking and extremely costly for the european union in the countries of central and eastern europe and in those countries that i have mentioned. if we have a limited absorption capacity, as mr schulz and mr poettering want, i would like to invest that absorption capacity differently. for reasons of blackmail contained in this document, namely to condition the enlargement process with the so-called constitutional process, the law and justice meps will abstain from voting on the submitted document.
mr. chairman, please! once negotiations with turkey have been opened, they will unfortunately sooner or later end in accession, even though turkey will not meet the conditions set for it, because why should it meet any conditions if it does not meet them today, and this is not an obstacle to the opening of negotiations. turkey will not respect our culture, they will try to impose their own. you can't make a european country that wasn't christian before. all the present and future countries of the union were baptized over a thousand years ago, and no humanistic philosophy can replace this common denominator that unites us. let us be open to turkey, but as a partnership, not as a membership. as president borrell reminded us in this chamber two days ago, albeit in a different context, because in the context of the constitution, 'europe for europeans', otherwise europeans will leave the union.
mr. president, my country will remain grateful to turkey for its solidarity during the loss of independence in the 18th and 19th centuries, when poland was divided between three invaders: austria, prussia and russia. the same principle of solidarity means that we must now firmly oppose turkey's accession to the european community, because one of its members, the republic of cyprus, is occupied by turkey and its statehood is not recognised. accepting this would set a dangerous precedent for all the member states of the union. it would sanction a situation in which the rights of smaller or weaker states are sacrificed in the name of the political and economic interests of the stronger states. the history of poland shows how dangerous this is, and the recent agreement between russia and germany shows that this situation can happen again. in the sense of responsibility for europe, we cannot talk to turkey about accession at all until it has recognised the republic of cyprus as a sovereign state, a member of the european union. (laughter)
i'm not going to let you down. the content is all the problems. i would have expected more difficulties on a religious or ideological basis, but here it turns out that turkey is causing problems on a political or diplomatic level. the fundamental question is: does turkey want to enter europe responsibly, or does europe want to accept turkey irresponsibly at any cost, in the spirit of socialist internationalism, or, as my colleague has so nicely and romantically put it, in the spirit of love? it's a good one, isn't it? mr president, are we not dealing here with a self-trapping mechanism, sometimes called the 'too much invested to quit' rule? in the light of this principle, is it not true that europe has gone too far towards turkey despite its behavior like a capricious child blackmailing its parents that it is not up to it to back down, nor does it know if it has other solutions for the "convention" and the common future in its "repertoire"? is institutional europe, as opposed to civic europe, not a little confused? i wish for us to find her, and the time frame can't be a constraint. i was bref, monsieur le president.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the increase in petrol prices and fuel dependency.
member of the commission. mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner had very much hoped to be with you to discuss this point. she has been highly engaged developing the commission's activities on belarus since we took office. on behalf of commissioner ferrero-waldner and the commission, i am pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in belarus and on the commission's work to support democratisation and civil society. the commission is deeply concerned about the absence of democracy and the rule of law and the lack of respect for human rights in belarus. belarus is in clear breach of its international commitments under the osce and un charters. we have recently seen a worrying deterioration in the situation. the regime restricts human rights even more and is taking further steps against non-governmental organisations, undermining the rights of minorities, imprisoning citizens for political reasons and curtailing freedom of expression. we have condemned firmly the acts of intimidation by the belarusian authorities against the union of the poles in belarus. these incidents occur in the context of growing repression of political parties, ngos and independent media outlets in belarus. we believe such interference undermines minority rights, thereby contravening standards of governance to which belarus has signed up as part of its commitments to the organisation of security and cooperation in europe. in addition, belarus has introduced decrees that place even more restrictions on foreign assistance, thereby isolating itself and the belarusian people still further. you may ask how the commission has reacted. in response to the growing repression in belarus we have increased our funding for democratisation and human rights by transferring eur 2 million from the tacis programme to the european initiative for democracy and human rights programme, one of the two instruments which do not require the consent of the government. the tacis programme was refocused to address the needs of the population with the full participation of the civil society. this year we have already signed 27 small contracts with ngos worth eur 3 million. we shall issue a further call for proposals under the eidhr programme in october, with a total budget of eur 420 000. we are also in the process of allocating more than eur 1.7 million for three specific new projects for belarus. these will be implemented by osce - odihr, the undp and the nordic council of ministers. these projects will focus on human rights, democratisation, civil society and independent educational institutions such as the european humanities university-in-exile. we shall continue to address the broader needs of the population with the tacis programme and focus on health and social issues, higher education, training and environmental matters. when alleviating chernobyl-related problems, our approach is to fund project proposals put forward by the local communities. one of the most significant developments in our assistance is our support for independent broadcasting. in response to the suggestions from this parliament and elsewhere, starting from 1 november we shall fund a daily radio news programme. the idea is to increase awareness of human rights and democracy issues in the belarusian population, and provide it with factual news on developments inside and outside belarus, which would not otherwise be available. the broadcasting will kick off in russian, and belarusian programmes will be phased in as soon as possible. the start of independent broadcasting is a major step, and i am delighted that we were the first donor to launch such initiatives for belarus. in addition, we shall open a commission office in minsk early next year. the office will be headed by a chargé d'affaires. this will facilitate our contacts with local civil society and it will also assist our coordination efforts and the follow-up of our activities. we have also looked at how best to ensure that all our policies towards belarus are consistent and coherent. in trade we have carried out an investigation into violations of trade union rights under the generalised system of preferences and looked into the definition of annual textiles quotas. we also keep the eu list of senior officials covered by the visa ban under continual review. the commission has taken the lead in the discussions on how to improve cooperation among the donors active in belarus. we have organised three donors meetings this year. the first one was in vilnius in march, followed by one in kiev in july, and the latest one was held last week in brussels. the process of democratisation in belarus and the wellbeing of its people are matters that are very close to our heart and to the commission's objectives. we are doing all we can to support those striving for the development of a democratic and pluralistic society in belarus. in particular, in addition to keeping up our focus on democratisation and human rights, we encourage the belarusian democratic forces to work closely together. this is crucial in view of next year's presidential elections. we look forward to welcoming belarus as a full partner in the european neighbourhood policy, as soon as the country lives up to its commitments on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, not only in words but also in deeds.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today we adopted a resolution that calls on the legacy of solidarity, which was founded 25 years ago. it is not just a historic resolution, because it is a kind of appeal for solidarity in the european union. we are now working on a resolution on belarus, and it will be an expression of our european solidarity with those who need it at the moment, and that is the situation of our friends in belarus the belarusian people. one might ask: why another resolution on belarus, when the last one was adopted in july, just before the holidays? however, as the commissioner rightly pointed out, events in belarus are accelerating. the political situation is deteriorating dramatically from month to month. we recently had a trial of the administration of president lukashenko against the democratically elected authorities of the union of poles in belarus, which took place in front of the eyes of the civilized world. the largest social organization in belarus was persecuted and its authorities were violently dissolved. as a polish member of the european parliament, i would like to sincerely thank all those who helped and supported us in this difficult time in the european parliament, and they were representatives of all political groups. it seems that the help and support from belarusians to those who are experiencing the same fate as poles in belarus was equally important. in particular, i would like to thank the representatives of the belarusian opposition for their support for the union of poles in belarus in this difficult time. this is how a solidarity network is being created in europe - a solidarity network that supports those who need it from those who have often needed it before. i think that the european commission should also be commended for what the commissioner has mentioned, namely the first signs of a review of the european union's policy towards belarus. these are good signs, i suggest we keep it that way.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. belarus is an anomaly on the european continent. it is ruled by a man who calls himself the fatherland of the soviet union, and who laments that this great country has disappeared from the map of europe. this is a man who is trying to isolate belarus from europe, simply afraid of the breath of freedom that has flowed through europe as a result of solidarity's actions. i think it would be extremely important to make it clear that while mr lukashenko is introducing border crossing fees, the eu countries are giving belarusians free visas, to make it very clear that we are not turning our backs on belarus, as the ruler of this country claims. it's not just about this kind of gesture. it also supports activities in belarus. i am glad that the commissioner has said that the european commission is launching programmes in belarus, but i am worried that it is so crazy late because it is already the end of the year. i understand there were some formal hurdles. if these are permanent obstacles, i think there is a will in the european parliament to cut through these very bureaucratic barriers and help the european commission to act efficiently and effectively. because if we do not do this, if we do not help belarus, belarus will not only be a black spot on the map of europe, but it will also be a black spot on our conscience. europe must mean freedom, freedom for belarus too.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. human rights violations in belarus are now routine activities of the belarusian government. recently, nationalist hatred against poles has also been added to this catalogue, the apogee of which was the delegation of the union of poles in belarus and the subsequent persecution of its activists. we must therefore prepare for a long march. long doesn't mean a long, long, but a determined march for belarus. to avoid a repeat of this discussion about human rights violations in belarus, we need a permanent rapporteur on this issue on the commission's side every week. we need an effective system of financing democratic forces, and it is difficult to imagine such an effective system without a separate human rights instrument that should be as flexible, fast and efficient as possible in delivering support under adverse legal conditions. our next debate on belarus is also a sign of the weakness of both parliament and the european union on this issue. although we are discussing this issue for the fifth time, we have not been able to make it a priority and a condition for the development of good relations between the european union and russia. the european commission is of course speaking with increasing promise, but it is acting in a lax, slow and passive way, undermining the credibility of the european union in this matter. i will just mention that the administrative procedures, even of the relatively grotesque regime in minsk, have proved to be more efficient and effective than the european ones when it comes to getting the radio working. belarusian radio is already broadcasting in the european union, our radio is silent on this matter. it is also worth adding one more general thing: the european embarrassment in this matter suspends the declaration on the union's common foreign policy in a complete political vacuum.
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, the internet has become one of the most important sources of independent information in belarus. the number of personal computers and internet connections is increasing. with a population of 10 million, the number of internet users in belarus reached 2 million in mid-2005. in minsk, nearly 450 000 people used internet cafes in 2004. at the same time, internet connections remain monopolized by the state-owned company beltelekom, which is part of the ministry of communications. the lukashenka regime seeks to control the use of the internet by civil society and harasses and represses those operating in cyberspace, using undemocratic articles of the criminal code to this end. in the european union's work for human rights and democracy in belarus, we should use the latest media. the internet for independent information must play the same role as radio for the overthrow of 20th century dictatorships. the european union must increase its financial support for the latest internet and mobile communications that could serve belarusian civil society.
mr. chairman, please! the harassment and persecution of the polish minority in belarus is well known. the 1995 council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities is systematically and brutally violated in relation to the union of poles in belarus, but also, among others, towards the roma minority. this is happening in europe, just beyond the external borders of the union. the european parliament is right to react to the violation of human rights, including the rights of national minorities, in various parts of the world. he cannot therefore remain indifferent to what is happening in belarus. the independence and democracy club supports the joint resolution, especially with regard to the situation of poles in this country. i appeal first of all for support of the union of poles in belarus and its legitimate authorities. the aid to them should go mainly through the polish border legions. but it should be clear that the key to actually solving most of the problems in belarus is not actually lukashenko, but his russian backer, former kgb officer vladimir putin. both putin and lukashenko use the methods of the special services of the former communist regime. the european parliament must take this into account.
mr. chairman, please! opposition parties, ngos, national and religious minorities in belarus are eagerly awaiting the results of the european commission and council's action. however, these effects are not yet apparent. the european initiative for democracy has not yet been allocated. the solidarity fund for the families of repressed politicians is still under discussion. the venice commission was not commissioned to carry out an international expertise on the validity of the referendum extending the possibility of totalitarian rule for president lukashenka in the next terms. the european commission office in minsk has not yet been opened, while the belarusian government's mission to the european union is active in brussels. those who repress ngos, minorities, the protestant church, they travel freely in europe because the visa sanctions only apply to a few of them. i therefore call on the commission to be more active and involved in these matters. i propose that a report on the situation in belarus be prepared, accompanied by hearings and in-depth investigations, which would lead to the development of a short and long-term plan of action of the union towards belarus. such a report would help to identify needs and threats and to develop measures and methods of action not only for the european union but also for the member states, since only a coherent and synchronised approach to such action can lead to any success.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. how many more dictatorships must fall, how many more people must suffer, lose their lives or their health in prisons, serving sentences for their beliefs, for defending some ideas that are not new, for being faithful to basic human rights, for being faithful and committed to freedom and justice, for grim dictators like fidel castro and lukashenko to understand that they are the torment of their peoples? we citizens of the free world, especially those of us in that part of europe that has been through the hell of communism, are called in a special way to fight against totalitarianism and contempt for civil liberties. i therefore expect the european commission and the european council to help us in this fight, to take part in it. commissioner, while i appreciate the efforts you've made so far, i think it's time for more vigorous action. how long can we tolerate the blatant disregard for the fundamental values on which the european union is built in belarus or its neighbouring country? dictators fall sooner or later, but they leave behind a wreckage, a broken and intimidated society, with no confidence in its own strength, no independence. we must help the belarusians not only to get rid of lukashenko, but also to help build the foundations of a free civil society, to educate the belarusian youth, to support the democratic opposition there, to denounce violations of civil liberties and human rights. the commission shall promote the belarusian culture, of which the belarusian language is a part. therefore, it was a mistake to support russian-language radio and television broadcasts, and one cannot participate in the russification of belarus that lukashenko is decreeing. european money must be spent on radio and television broadcasts in the belarusian language, and such broadcasts already exist in the high commission. polish radio and television broadcasts in this language are received in belarus, and they require support. the project of a radio station created by free belarusians in exile in poland, lithuania and ukraine, broadcasting to belarus, should also be supported. we in central europe remember how great a hope radio free europe was for us. europe will always be a symbol of freedom, so please create radio free belarus.
mr. chairman, please! the strategic partnership between the union and india can be summed up as 'between us democrats'. it has been said in this room that india and the eu are the two largest democracies in the world. of course, the democracy of this subcontinent is embedded in a specific tradition and value system but it is a democracy. india is one of the two most populous countries in the world, and a growing economic powerhouse. it's already an observer at the g7. a country of paradoxes, which i was able to observe during the few weeks i spent there: on the one hand, the highest-class technological and computing facilities, and on the other - as mrs gill said earlier - more than half a billion people living off agriculture and 370 million people below the poverty line (almost 35% of the population). add to that 17.5 to 35 million children who have to work. at the same time, it is a country that imports up to 70% of its energy from outside and is dependent on foreign aid. we don't know if india will get a permanent seat on the un security council and whether it's worth moving this structure at all, because it's causing some emotions among the next european and non-european countries. but it is certain that new delhi will soon be playing the card in world politics and economics. the union-india strategic partnership is a necessary step in the right direction for both sides. but let's not forget the problems, like the unresolved conflict in kashmir. the 'cricket diplomacy' between india and pakistan does not ultimately take into account the will of the people of kashmir. on kashmir, it is not only politicians from karachi or new delhi who need to be consulted, but also, and above all, the people of the region. this important point cannot obscure the whole picture: india needs the union, the union needs india.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i commend the rapporteur for his very substantive work. the energy crisis and the prospect of the depletion of non-renewable biofuels in the face of growing demand and the need to protect the environment are generating a growing interest in renewable energy sources. it is good that parliament is debating this. mr. turmes mentioned the sun, and it's worth knowing that if you were to burn all the fossil fuels, oil, gas, coal, wood, all of them, with 100 percent efficiency, the amount of energy you would get would be equal to the amount of energy the sun would deliver to the earth in just four days. the problem is fundamental, so it's a shame we're having this debate at this late hour and with low attendance. this is a multi-dimensional issue: technical and scientific, environmental, climate, economic, social and defence. we must take concrete action across the union, taking into account global cooperation. we have to do this in different countries... (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! energy from renewable sources should be used in accordance with the technological priorities of the country. in poland, the climate and agricultural conditions make biofuels a priority requiring rapid support, with geothermal energy in second place. however, the experience so far with solid biomass electricity generation is not very optimistic. this is due to, inter alia, the low efficiency of heat-to-electric conversion, as well as logistical and environmental problems. in addition, biomass for wood products must be dried by evaporating about 20% of the water, which consumes additional energy. another priority for poland could be the energy contained in municipal waste, whose sources are not only renewable but are increasing rapidly and alarmingly. so it's by definition a renewable energy source. existing technologies, including pyrolysis, make it possible to extract hydrocarbons from waste and convert them into electricity at high efficiency. the two-fold effect is achieved: energy and a kind of secondary recycling and the elimination of landfills. the commission should recognise this type of energy as renewable.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the union's trade relations with china require some analysis. for 25 years, china's economy has been growing at about 9 percent a year. beijing's foreign exchange reserves are now $700 billion, compared to the eu's $179 billion. the second largest power in the world is neither a democracy nor a market economy. by 2010, china wants to join asean in creating a free trade area that will be the world's largest economic bloc. china is preparing for a global trade expansion. china's takeover of the american giant ibm, and its recent attempt to take over the british company rover, are examples of this. what does that mean for us? look at the united states, where trade with china has been so unfavorable that it's caused jobs to be lost and entire industries to be moved to china. china has become the world's largest factory, producing two-thirds of all electronic devices, not to mention textiles. china is currently the union's second largest trading partner. in 2004, the union had a deficit of over eur 78 billion vis-à-vis china. unequal competition is possible because china has a socialist market economy, which is a form of primitive capitalism that ignores human rights. in our relations with china, thinking about the future of our economy, we should replace the strategic partnership with this country with the status of strategic competitors. we should also impose strict import quotas on chinese goods, thus protecting jobs in our countries. let us always ask ourselves in our relations with china, what jobs will be left for our children?
member of the commission. mr president, i am happy to say that the scope of the debate which we are just concluding has gone much further than trade relations. the debate has confirmed that china is a powerful country, with 20% of the world's population, with a rapidly growing economy and a huge volume of international trade. china is a country which plays an increasingly important role in the world economy and also in international politics. all the speakers raised legitimate concerns: the shortcomings of democracy; the vulnerability and fragility of human rights, including the rights of employees; the extremely low wages and the low environmental standards which make china very competitive. i assure you that the commission is fully aware of these problems and furthermore we are aware of the serious impact of the chinese model on other developing countries attempting to compete with china. they are forced into a race to the bottom; they are forced to lower their social and environmental standards, if they want to be competitive. in dealing with china, a country of enormous potential and stark contradictions, the european union has two options. the first is the schoolmaster attitude: to exert pressure on china to comply. i do not think that will work. the second is to establish a partnership, to cooperate with china and make it listen to our concerns and take them on board – to engage with china and not try to isolate it. this, i believe, is a promising option. in 1985 the european communities signed the first framework agreement with china, which was limited to trade relations. we have to appreciate the enormous changes in china; the political, economic and scientific development, unprecedented in such a relatively short period of 20 years. and the changes are accelerating. china has changed, and so have our relations. we have achieved a breakthrough in different fields. i refer to the customs cooperation agreement, which will and should play an important role in combating counterfeiting. i refer to the dialogue on employment and social standards; the partnership on climate change; and the working group on intellectual property rights. the recent summit confirmed that it is time to start negotiations on a new framework agreement. the commission is seeking a mandate from the council to start the talks as soon as possible. the new framework agreement will be much broader in scope than the first one signed 20 years ago, because it should reflect the changes in china and in our relations. it should work as an umbrella, covering all possible fields of cooperation. it should have a substantial trade and investment component, but it should also cover energy, political dialogue, social issues, human rights and a number of other fields. through close cooperation, through a relationship based on partnership, we can encourage china to play an active role in addressing the global challenges. all the changes we want to promote and encourage serve the interests of the international community, the european union and its member states, but also serve the interests of china. that makes me optimistic.
china is one of the major economic players in the world. europe competes with india, russia and the united states for a market of over a billion consumers. we are fighting for our place in the world of trade against unfair imports and international importers who are looking for maximum profit, without regard for the economic interests of the countries and the economy as a whole. as we open up to the cheap imports that european consumers and our voters expect, let us not forget the thousands of failing businesses and rising unemployment. there's a permanent crisis in the textile industry that we don't have a recipe for. china is not just an import, it is also an investment in europe, which we should encourage to create jobs in europe. consideration should be given to how to create opportunities within the eu for european companies to locate production in eu countries where labour costs are relatively low and which have suffered the most from uncontrolled imports. china's economy, like society as a whole, will experience a period of instability in the coming years due to the relaxation of labor policies and the re-skilling of a large part of the population from agriculture to other sources. we must also be prepared for the major social tensions in china, which the union should help to counter. china should be a place for europeans to do business, and europe and china must learn to work together, not fight. fighting will surely bring both sides to their knees, but working together will bring us friends and partners.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nepal is a country of 23 million people, one of the poorest in the world, with 42 percent of the population living below the poverty line and half of the population unemployed. the situation is made worse by the violation of basic human rights that have resulted from the nine years of brutal fighting between maoist rebels and government forces. the armed rebellion of the maoists who control much of the countryside has already claimed the lives of over 12,000 people, half of them civilians. the attempt to end the long-running conflict by the king of nepal's declaration of a state of emergency this year has resulted in the suspension of most civil rights and restrictions on freedom of the press and speech. nepal has since experienced a dramatic wave of arrests of hundreds of political leaders and activists and a sharp increase in violence and killings. the victims of the long-running conflict and violence in the country include women and children who have been killed, illegally detained, tortured, raped and recruited for military activities. despite nepal's current relative stability after a temporary ceasefire, the authorities are unable to cope with the huge problems on their own. it seems that only the help of the international community will restore democracy and the rule of law. i would therefore also like to appeal to international organisations to help initiate a constructive dialogue with all parties to the conflict to restore the democratic political process and respect for human rights and civil liberties in nepal.
mr. chairman, please! it would be good if we were to deal not with a fragment - even a significant one - of the case, but with the whole. the clear violation of the rights of the hungarian minority is largely the result of the actions of the serbs who were expelled from other areas of the former yugoslav republic. repression is the root of repression. the scapegoat has been mainly, but not exclusively, a minority of a nation with a great history and a great tradition - the hungarian nation. if our legitimate appeals, like today's, are to have a real effect, and not just to appease our consciences, we must change our tactics towards serbia. i will say something unpopular here: we must show belgrade a clear, gradual, concrete scenario of gradual integration (perhaps not so fast, but not so far away), show this perspective and then make serbia and montenegro's accession, or serbia itself, dependent on the next phases of integration, starting with full respect for human rights, including minority rights. it's the only strategic solution.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. the idea of stopping the spread of nuclear weapons has had some success. a few countries, like argentina and south africa, have dropped their programs. other countries that inherited nuclear weapons from the soviet union, such as belarus, kazakhstan and ukraine, have abandoned them altogether, but have not been able to sustain or ensure their full success. some countries have not signed the npt and, despite various pressures from the world public, have acquired such weapons - i am thinking here of israel, pakistan and india - and have thus encouraged other countries to follow suit. today we are dealing with one of those countries, namely, iran. it seems that the fear that this process may continue is entirely justified and that this domino effect must be brought to a decisive end. the european union's negotiating capacity is now exhausted and it is therefore of the utmost importance that we refer this matter to the un security council for a swift and effective handling. but we also have to remember who it is that we owe the world's public awareness of iran's secret military nuclear programs to. it was the iranian opposition that brought this problem to our attention. so their great contribution to this whole thing must be recognized. it is also worth looking at another issue that has been hanging over us for a long time, namely the issue of the designation of the iranian mujahideen as a terrorist organization. this is a problem which the european parliament has already raised. i hope the council will take up this matter.
madam president! the european parliament has repeatedly drawn attention to human rights violations in iran. iran's political system deviates from the standards of international treaties on fundamental human rights and political freedoms. we particularly condemn the use of the death penalty against juvenile offenders and the threat of the death penalty against minors in this country. the iranian authorities have imposed severe restrictions on the media, including censorship of the internet, which is one of the sources of independent information in iran. we are concerned about the new arrests of online journalists and netizens. we ask the iranian parliament in particular to intervene in favour of media freedom, in favour of free expression of opinion by the iranian public in traditional publications as well as on the internet. we condemn the treatment of the kurdish community by the iranian authorities, who cannot enjoy the political freedoms guaranteed to national minorities by international conventions. the violation by iran of international non-proliferation agreements on weapons of mass destruction is of particular concern. we support the international atomic energy agency in bringing the iranian nuclear issue to the attention of the un security council. tehran should release all documentation related to its nuclear programme, especially since in the undemocratic conditions prevailing in the country, the international community has serious grounds to suspect that iran's nuclear ambitions are not exclusively for peaceful purposes. the european union cannot accept a situation in which a non-democratic state continues its nuclear programme, which could be used to produce an atomic bomb.
mr. chairman, please! since poland became a member of the european union, the situation in agriculture, which was delayed by more than 50 years of soviet occupation, has not improved but has worsened. at first, poland was forced in the accession treaty to agree to decreased subsidies for farmers for many years, which results in their vegetation instead of development. this disadvantage is compounded by the fact that the change in the euro exchange rate has led to a reduction in the level of direct payments compared to last year. the influx of cheap grain into poland also contributed to a fall in its price by about 35% compared to 2003, when poland was not yet part of the union. the union is now proposing to reduce the national ceilings for sugar to which subsidies are granted. the trade commissioner also plans to cut agricultural trade subsidies by 60% in the future. all these facts show that the union has shown a complete disregard for the interests of the new members and has only declared its support for the development of the eastern regions of the union, rather than actually doing so. to prevent a tragedy in agriculture and to prevent social tensions in the new countries of the union, i call on the commission to cover them with full subsidies from 2007.
mr. chairman, please! the threat of avian influenza compels me to ask the european parliament about the responsibility for public health, which should have been one of the european union's top priorities. it seems that the commission only wants to govern without solidarity and responsibility and is more concerned with the prevention of birds than people. once again, europe is divided into rich, who buy huge stocks of antiviral drugs, and poor, who have only a small amount of them. coordinating drug security across the union would require price reductions, whereas decentralising the purchase of tamiflu and vaccines is only beneficial for manufacturers and traffickers who want to make a fortune on human health. the patented status of oseltamivir and other neuronamidase inhibitors as antiretroviral medicinal products should also be standardised in the union. today, extending the lives of people with hiv and aids is more important than preventing death from other causes.
mr. president, africa is a miserable continent. a continent that has been in constant regression for the last thirty years. unfortunately, what i've heard from the commissioner is not promising. we hear about coherence, about strategy, about progress -- very little concrete, if any. economic growth is needed, but for economic growth to happen, it is necessary to break the collusion between international capital and local, corrupt governments. the more so because this international capital, which is extremely evil, is usually supported by the countries of its origin. to make progress in africa, real progress, is to first build a local economy that works for the local community and is based on the local community. second, education, education and more education. here europe can do a great deal and does almost nothing. second, the fight against disease -- yes, it needs to be immediate and urgent, and it's the effective fight against disease, the fight against hunger. we also need to do what we have been talking about here, to support the local economy, especially the agricultural economy, we need to break with the agricultural dumping of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! thank you very much, mr rapporteur, for such an interesting and comprehensive report on european education. it reflects, i believe, many of the challenges that europe should be facing. i agree with the rapporteur that training and education should be focused on young people or those looking for work. but don't forget about the teachers. this group deserves more attention. today's youths are growing up in a world of fierce competition. in a world where money rules, the frustration of not having money often leads to aggression and pathology. the number of juvenile delinquents is increasing at an alarming rate. the role of teachers is therefore very important, and they should have a good knowledge of psychology in addition to their content. i therefore believe that the union's education programmes should not forget such an important issue as the training of teachers. the second issue i want to talk about is the quality of higher education. young people are learning subjects that are not always up to date. in many countries, education systems are still not prepared for the challenges of globalisation, the internet and high technology. learning a foreign language is important, but it must not be overlooked when teaching it, cultural, religious and customary differences. we must give equal opportunities to all languages, without discriminating against any. we should teach tolerance for other colors, customs, religions. this is especially important for peace education, for the declaration on peace education states: "since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defense of peace must be developed". and that can only happen through a proper education system based on the teachings of tolerance, openness, equality and knowledge of others. nowadays, it is the school that has the main responsibility of education. so we need to revise our textbooks, remove the content that incites aggression and hatred, and teach respect, the joy of giving, sharing, altruism and helping the less fortunate. these core values should become the foundation of education in schools in the 21st century.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mrs novak for her report. quality of academic education is not just about bringing about full reciprocity in the recognition of university degrees. it is to serve a higher purpose - the search for truth. the european model of education, as the commission stated in 2002, should be a model of quality for the whole world. the bologna, prague and bergen agreements are therefore relevant. european accreditation plays a key role in these activities. accreditation bodies must be transparent and free from any pressure. kindness can lead to abuse. demographics are what make colleges so desperate to get students, because it's about being or not being. on the other hand, the immediate introduction of overly strict regulations may cause serious problems for some universities that are not yet in the limelight. in such situations, it is wise to give the person a chance to correct his or her shortcomings. a big leap in academic education has also happened in my country, poland. for example, the emergence of some 300 private universities in the last 15 years is a phenomenon. everything that is related to science and teaching must also have a moral dimension. quality education also requires nurturing the master-student relationship, the professor-student relationship. solomon said: "acquire wisdom, for it is better to acquire it than to acquire gold. wisdom is better than silver".
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the poverty of women in particular is a manifestation of a huge social pathology that should be opposed by the right and responsible people in decision-making administrative functions. but poverty cannot be separated from the liberal worldview responsible for the economic policy model, which is not about the good of the individual, but about the profit and career of individuals. among the main causes of poverty are greedy capitalism, which makes the rich richer and the poor poorer, anti-human globalism and the so-called free market dominated by monopolies, and feminist tendencies that lead to the degradation and disintegration of the family and the loss of human bonds. the transition from so-called patriarchal marriage to partnership marriage not only places additional burdens on women, who are more likely to divorce in conflict situations, but is also a cause of increased poverty, especially among women over 65. to say that poverty is the result of low productivity of workers reflecting poor health, malnutrition and lack of skills is a curious manipulation. speaking in parliament, i draw attention to the causes of poverty in poland, which despite its enormous potential, according to eurostat, is the poorest country in the european union, with the highest unemployment, which is the result both of the corruption of the ruling liberal-post-communist coalition and of the adjustment of the economy to the accession conditions. the poverty of the majority of polish society, including women, will not be helped by propaganda, empty slogans, reports or directives or the establishment of a day against poverty, which consumes huge funds. the need to build economic order in solidarity, in a way that serves both men and women, and in the respect of moral norms that shape the right attitude towards others, especially the weaker man, the country or the region.
mr. chairman, please! we live in strange times. on the one hand, we have high unemployment, and on the other, the economic constraint of having two salaries in the family. we should try to bring some of the unemployment we are financing back home to our families. the person who runs the household does not feel unemployed, on the contrary, he has his hands full 24 hours a day. just look at her hands. we insult women who run the household by calling them unemployed. we hurt a lot. the unemployed man, on the other hand, is frustrated, feels worthless, worthless, a failure in life. the most common cause of family poverty is the father's unemployment. families living on one salary tend to live very modestly, but they don't feel poverty. they have a rich, healthy family life. there's less pathology in families like this. the state, by supporting single-payer families, for example, with tax breaks or benefits, will have less to spend on day care, juvenile facilities, prisons, nursing homes, etc. it'll have more happy wives, happy children, happy husbands.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr jean marie beaupuy on behalf of the committee on regional development on urban issues in the context of enlargement (a6-0272/2005).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. old city centers are dying. it's obvious to us. as one of my predecessors rightly said, they are turning into centers of drug addiction, crime and migration. the council of europe has dealt with this problem before, but without much success. these old centres are disappearing, of course, for economic reasons, but they are being reinforced by the so-called social model of europe. the limited rents in the city centers, the cheap subsidized housing in the suburbs, also with low rents, is causing people to not want to live in the city centers because they just don't calculate it. if we don't change this policy, then of course the result will be the same: these old centers will be in a worse and worse state. today, you only have to look up to see the dark, uninhabited windows of houses, often well-kept, in brussels, strasbourg, venice, rome, florence. people don't want to live there anymore because it's not worth it. of course, the demographic factor is also important. the shrinking population in europe is causing people to not want to live in these old centres, which are the centres of crime and drug addiction. if we don't fix this, if we don't change the economic and demographic conditions, we're not going to get anywhere. it is worth noting that this is the result of the so-called social model of europe, but here in this house, it is enough to say anything about the so-called social model of europe to have the thunderbolts strike at anyone who says something like that. we recall yesterday's remarks on commissioner mccreevy, who said that for the sake of europe, europe must be competitive and efficient, and cannot - as i understand from the interpretations that have been made here - be as social as it is and as it wants to be. the result was that commissioner mccreevy was called in for questioning. this is not the way to build europe, nor is it the way to save our old, beautiful, historic cities.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my appreciation for the report drawn up by mr beaupuy, with whom i had the honour of working. the lack of a coherent european policy on urban issues has been felt until now, even though more than three quarters of the union's population live in urban areas. so today's debate is a deeply realistic one. i'm glad that document came out. i am glad that we are referring to the european charter of cities and the new athens charter. of course, urban affairs cannot be considered in isolation from the urban environment that forms agglomerations, nor can they be considered without taking into account the existence of large rural areas. the development of cities has stimulated the development of entire regions in the distant past, and the degradation of cities has resulted in their decline. the same is true today, especially for the regional capitals, or local metropolises. it is therefore rational to include the integrated urban dimension in strategic regional development objectives and, therefore, in the appropriate contribution to the cohesion fund and the structural funds. specific and difficult to solve are the issues of civil engineering, covering urban transport, energy supply, water, sewage disposal, waste disposal, etc. the city also has many other roles to play, including education and cultural activities. he has to deal with a whole range of social issues. today, this is compounded by the very serious problems of security, unemployment and the dying out of the city centres, as mr libicki has mentioned. in closing, i would like to recall the words of john paul ii to the representatives of the italian cities. they refer to the human aspect that the commissioner was talking about. "the city is not an end in itself, but its end is to be man, to whom the city must conform its structures and the criteria by which it is to be governed. if public authorities lose sight of this truth, they act like a machine that spins around uselessly, at the risk of doing harm. let us therefore be useful, both in parliament, in the commission, in the council and in all the cities of europe.
mr. chairman, please! the economic situation in europe, current and future enlargements, pose new challenges for the european union. over the past 30 years, the main emphasis has been on economic and social cohesion as the main policy objectives. the results of the activities have shown the need to extend them to include territorial cohesion as an objective. in a wide range of issues, including the relationship between the centre and the periphery, the metropolitan area and small communities, urban development is gaining in importance. cities, in the light of the lisbon strategy, will be the place where pro-development and innovation activities will develop. they thus become potential engines of european union development. at the same time, it is in cities that we see growing internal disparities and worryingly growing social problems, marginalization of certain groups or social exclusion. cities, therefore, need special attention. i am therefore convinced that urban issues will play an important role in the implementation of not only cohesion policy but all community policies. in particular, i believe this requires that the mandatory inclusion of the urban dimension in the implementation of cohesion policy tasks in objective 1 and objective 2 regions be recognised. it would also be desirable to delegate project management powers to cities when they implement their own revitalization programmes.
madam president! the problems of cities and urban policy in the implementation of cohesion policy must finally be given the attention it deserves, especially since almost 80% of the total population of the european union lives in cities, as has been emphasised many times here today. cities are key actors in regional development and in the achievement of the lisbon and gothenburg objectives. cities and urban areas are the engines of growth, innovation and economic, social and territorial cohesion. on the other hand, cities also have some of the most complex problems, such as social exclusion, geographical and ethnic segregation, insecurity, drugs, pollution, illicit trafficking and unemployment. the considerable disparities in urban policy between the countries of the european union, especially after the last enlargement with the ten new member states, are due not only to differences in the degree of economic development, but also to the fact that some new countries do not have an urban policy at national or regional level. in the new member states in particular, we see complex urban problems related to housing, inadequate infrastructure, transport, environmental problems and waste disposal. it is mainly in the new countries of the union that there is a strong phenomenon of social exclusion or the problem of blockades. this is where effective action to revitalise post-industrial sites is needed. the european commission should take effective action to coordinate urban policy as soon as possible. it should place particular emphasis on the development of urban development instruments, the exchange of good practices and experiences and joint projects that strengthen the interregional and supranational dimension. only then will the new cities in the union become its strength, not its handicap. the report by mr beaupuy is all the more valuable, and i thank him very much for it and i support it.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr chmielewski, and the committee on fisheries for the report on the commission’s proposal for technical measures in the baltic sea. i must express my gratitude for the open attitude taken by the committee and the rapporteur, in particular to the arguments put forward by the commission, resulting in a report which the commission can accept almost in its entirety. this is a very technical file and, as you are aware, technical conservation measures in the baltic sea presently originate in large part from fisheries rules adopted at international level in the international baltic sea fisheries committee – ibsfc. the community has adopted some additional rules for its own waters, which now cover all of the baltic sea except for the two small portions of russian waters. in community legislation, the measures are spread out in three different council regulations: the baltic technical measures regulation, the regulation on industrial fishing for herring – both from 1998 – and the annual tac and quota regulation, which also contains a number of technical conservation measures. apart from this legal complexity, the present rules are, in some cases, over-complicated and, in others, unclear and remain open to interpretation. they are therefore difficult to implement and to control. on 14 march 2005, the commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation on technical conservation measures for the baltic sea. the proposal was drafted after extensive consultation with the baltic stakeholders and the member states during 2004. it groups together all the relevant rules into a single legislative act, which will improve legal consistency. furthermore, the proposal seeks to simplify and to streamline the rules as far as possible by, for example, proposing uniform closed seasons for certain species instead of having differing time periods in different parts of the baltic. the consultation held within the committee on fisheries was characterised by a spirit of good cooperation, which has led to a strong result. the commission’s proposal is very technical with many details relating to the construction and use of fishing gear in the baltic. i am very pleased that the rapporteur and the committee on fisheries have been able to address the very technical elements of the proposal and have come forward with a number of amendments which will improve the proposal. amendments 5 and 6 are a good example of this. strict rules were proposed for all the nets comprising the trawl to guarantee its efficient selectivity. these amendments allow the reduction of the application of the strict rules to the rear part of the trawl. thus, the selectivity of the fishing gear is not affected. the rules have been simplified and are easier to understand for the fishermen, and control at sea is facilitated. i can support all but one of the 15 amendments proposed in the report. the only amendment on which i have reservations is amendment 3. if we accept that fisheries inspectors can only take samples of a landing if the sample has been accepted by the ship owner, we may undermine the inspectors’ ability to carry out the necessary controls. furthermore, i must remind you that it is always up to the inspectors to prove that the samples they have taken are representative of the landing. therefore, i am not in a position to support the adoption of amendment 3. i can accept amendment 9, on the introduction of an assessment of the effects of driftnets and other entangling gears on the sea mammal populations. however, let me make it clear that i am not prepared to accept the modification of the phasing-out of driftnets, as already adopted by the council with parliament’s support, in 2004. let me finish by once again thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their excellent work.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the council regulation of 14 march on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea by technical measures, which is the subject of my report, joins a long line of eu documents which aim, on the one hand, to codify the solutions already in place and, on the other, to extend their scope to the new ten, four of which are known to be baltic states. not everyone, let us say at once, liked the new four in the council's proposal. many of the articles that were relevant were rejected. the rapporteur, who comes from one of these countries, and who is thus one of the main addressees of the new directives, has been faced with a difficult political conundrum and a difficult challenge. the aim was, of course, as usual, to find a favourable compromise, a compromise all the more difficult to achieve since it concerned a subject which is not easily amenable to mediation, namely technical fishing measures. and the technique of fishing, beyond the political intent, is simply subject to daily practical verification by the human, the fisherman, and the indifferent to the political mediating spells of the fish. fortunately, and i thank the members and commissioners who have been involved in this work, the debate has been reduced to a few key points. the main achievement was to find a compromise solution to the problem of fishing gear for cod, the baltic's most important fish, which is the main source of livelihood for baltic fishermen. in addition to the recommended starting window for young fish, the 'bakoma' type, which is a detail, the european parliament's committee on fisheries and the european commission have agreed to use the polish-german equivalent, already tested and cheaper t90 bag. moreover, the working discussions with the authors of the draft regulation have made it possible to supplement the document with what was simply missing, namely the necessary definitions of the elements of fishing gear referred to in the following articles, and in particular the extension device, which is the most frequently cited and ambiguously understood element in the regulation. this procedure has really cleared up a lot of doubts, freed many of the controversial language, and helped some to extract the flexible message from some articles. this has enabled the rapporteur to withdraw amendment no 16 and to relax his other five amendments, particularly those relating to the restrictive article 6, which is a concern for the baltic fisheries, as the commissioner has said, and which requires the withdrawal of certain fairly commonly used fishing gear. finally, the salmon tuna problem, which has been the subject of the greatest concern in our committee on fisheries of the european parliament. in the opinion of polish fishermen, floats, which are considered in europe as equipment that poses too great a risk, for example when fishing for salmon, for marine mammals, guinea pigs, do not pose such a risk in the southern part of the baltic sea, since guinea pigs are present sporadically. it is also true that the decision to close the fleet will also deprive some 60 polish shipowners of the opportunity to fish for salmon in this part of the baltic. the rapporteur, aware of both aspects of this problem of the baltic's fishing fleet, namely the eu's protection requirements for the baltic's resources on the one hand and the existence of salmon-catching fishermen and their future, proposed the only possible compromise in this situation: to take account of the council's recommendations while undertaking a sound survey of the baltic's waters, establishing the facts, and carrying out an evaluation of the real effects of the use of fishing fleets and other marine mammal tracking devices by 2008. i tried to combine water with fire. and that's how my story ends on this report. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the fishing industry, which is the subject of a new proposal from the commission. that's what happened here. our fisheries commission finally accepted it unanimously. i have already thanked the members of parliament, my colleagues on the committee on fisheries and the specialists from the european commission. i would also like to personally thank all the experts, scientists and manufacturers of fishing gear from the baltic countries who have helped the rapporteur to identify this extremely important but also very difficult and demanding segment of the fishing industry.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the problem of the withdrawal of salmon fleets from the baltic. first of all, i would like to emphasise that these nets do not pose a serious threat to marine biodiversity, unlike their counterparts used in other areas. there is also no scientific evidence that they pose a serious threat to the seals in the north-central baltic sea. the withdrawal of the baltic trawlers means in practice a reduction, or rather the cessation, of polish salmon fishing, because they cannot be replaced by other nets in our waters. this decision was taken without a proper scientific justification and without taking into account the consistently presented position of the countries concerned which were not members of the union before 1 may 2004, and this decision was taken 4 days before the enlargement. we therefore think that a good compromise solution would be to postpone the further withdrawal of the baltic fleet for three years until the relevant scientific data are available to justify or prove the futility of such actions.
madam president! in the light of the report drawn up by mr chmielewski on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea and the belts and the sund by means of technical measures, i should like to express my satisfaction with the substance of that document. in its preparation, the rapporteur takes equal account of the interests of the four baltic partners as well as those of the four new members coexisting within the enlarged european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the participation of other european countries concerned in the discussions at that time was severely limited, and our new parliamentary representation was not able to participate. given the specific nature of the baltic's natural environment, the significant differences between its western and eastern parts, the new countries' voice on the regulation under consideration had to be heard and, i hope, was heard. thank you and congratulations again to the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! the world and europe are in a state of hysteria over the bird flu pandemic. during my stay in brussels, i became interested in the situation in the potential capital of europe. it turns out that the only effective antiviral drug, made by the swiss company roche, is not available in pharmacies in brussels, and there is no tamiflu in the european capital. pharmaceutical companies are making hundreds of millions of euros warming the atmosphere, we are speaking out on all the key issues of europe, the world and beyond, while we are unable to secure the minimum for our own citizens, even in our own capital. i think, mr president, that the european commission should take decisive action on this matter, otherwise we are either being played for keeps or we are facing a pandemic with potentially tragic consequences.
mr. chairman, please! lithuania has been a member of the european union since 2004. it should therefore comply with the legal rules resulting from community law. but unfortunately, that's not the case. one of the fundamental rights of every human being is the right to property and the right to inherit it, especially land. the state's attitude towards this right is the very definition of democracy. in lithuania after 1939, under soviet law, private property, primarily land, was confiscated. after lithuania regained its independence, the lithuanian constitutional court ruled that all vacant, undeveloped land was to be returned in kind to its rightful owners or their descendants. unfortunately, the executive and the local government in lithuania have no sacred right to property. despite court rulings, he has not returned the land seized years ago, especially to poles living in lithuania, who are a large national minority. thus, the lithuanian authorities not only violate the right to property, but also discriminate against national minorities - in this case the polish minority. it is time for the relevant committees of the european parliament to take up this matter.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission has presented a report showing the scale of mental health problems, affecting 27% of the union's population, which result in a decline in productivity and an increase in healthcare costs estimated at 4 points of gdp. from a medical point of view, the elimination of disease requires both effective therapy and the elimination of the causes that in the case of nervousness and depression, in addition to the stress caused by the pursuit of money is currently destructive liberalism with a free market monopoly that deprives millions of people of jobs, livelihoods and education. but the main cause of emotional disorders is a life without principles, as if there were no god, which prevents personal development and turns life into a living hell for 60,000 suicides and countless addicts dying on installments. that is why billions of euros will not be spent on prevention programmes unless they are aimed at guaranteeing the true dignity of the human person and his or her rights to social and medical security and development in a healthy, loving family based on moral principles.
mr. chairman, please! the problem of decommissioning pesticides in europe and the world has been pushed further and further into the margins of our lives. international organizations are sounding the alarm as the environmental bombs of improper chemical waste disposal are increasingly threatening us. it is estimated that only some 25 000 tonnes of pesticides are stored in the eight central european countries that joined the european union in 2004. in the countries of the former soviet union, our neighbours to the east and south, closer and further away, there may be over 200,000 tonnes of obsolete and unprotected chemical waste lying in storage, blown by the wind and washed away by rainwater. all areas of the globe are thus threatened. i therefore urge you to draw attention to this neglected issue and to present as soon as possible a concrete action plan to inventory, identify and destroy all sites of obsolete pesticides and other hazardous chemicals.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to call for action to be taken in relation to the harmful persecution of polish agricultural exporters to denmark by the danish media. the case concerns public, unconfirmed allegations of the sale to denmark of supposedly spoiled raspberries containing a rare stomach-poisoning virus. the danish media, playing the judge, reported that five people had died and nearly a thousand had been poisoned by eating raspberry dessert. the absurdity of these allegations is shown, inter alia, by the fact that the same raspberries, from the same companies, were exported to belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, sweden, russia and the usa in no case was poisoning found. moreover, detailed checks at the accused undertakings showed that the production of raspberries took place under standard conditions. the polish authorities suggested to the danes that they suspend trade if raspberries were indeed poisonous, but the danish authorities did not take up the matter. the silent, public acquiescence of the danish authorities, who have so far taken absolutely no action and denied the false slander, is also completely incomprehensible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft european parliament resolution on the culture 2007 programme (2007 to 2013) promotes creativity, fosters mutual awareness of the culture and history of the peoples of europe and develops cooperation in this field. an important step in this direction would be to add the protection of cultural heritage of european significance to the list of the culture 2007 programme's core objectives. the commission's proposal lacked clear support for projects that draw on the european tradition and common roots that make up the identity of modern europe. it is the culture of our continent, shaped over the centuries, that has determined and continues to define european identity, and that leads to the recognition of a common heritage and civilisation, as pope john paul ii recalled in his meeting with the parliamentary assembly of europe. as a member of the european capitals of culture association, i can see the enthusiasm of the citizens of our continent for these european capitals of culture programmes. millions of citizens participate in artistic and educational projects of the highest cognitive and educational value. it is the efforts of artists and cultural people that make us proud of the wealth of talent and the diversity of artistic inspiration that is based on the achievements of our european tradition. let us remember that for 50 years europe was divided. the programme should serve to promote the knowledge of the cultures of the peoples of central and eastern europe in western europe - a culture stifled by communist totalitarianism, including a culture inspired by christian values. the reduction of the minimum project value from eur 60 to eur 30 000 per year will increase the number of cultural operators able to participate in the programme. this is a major change. in particular, in the new member states, the financial situation of such operators is much worse than in the 'old union' countries, and it is entirely justified to make the proposed support available to a wider range of operators who meet the substantive objectives of the programme.
member of the commission. thank you very much for the many encouragements and expressions of interest for the sake of european cultural cooperation. i would just like to remind you that several years ago, definitely before maastricht, many would have said that this is not an agenda for the european parliament, the union or the commission. today, more is required, much more. there is also a greater political will for such cooperation and i believe it will bear fruit, because it is needed. one reason is globalisation, in which we do not want to get lost, and the other is european integration itself, which does not mean cultural integration or harmonisation, but the formation of a community of cultures where diversity is a wealth and unity is based on common values. never before have topics and phenomena such as identity, citizenship and culture been so intensely discussed and developed in the european institutions, and i see this as a sign of the times, or rather a signal that we are moving from the post-war, coal-steel, very basic agenda to more challenging topics that require even more maturity. to some of the suggestions: for example, mr bono and then some others on the cultural industry. i think the new reasoning in the proposal reflects very well the space for the cultural industry. as for the small and large, we already have a high rejection rate today: 70-75%, which means that if we break it down further, the success rate will not be higher, but we want to overcome some of the bilateral or trilateral dimensions and projects. i would rather recommend that the member states be strongly encouraged to create complementary funding with european funding, so-called matching funds, to help small or medium-sized operators in the cultural field. and again, the primary responsibility for cultural policy lies with the states. we can and we want to support it and complement it, not replace it. as for mrs hennicot-schoepges, the question of taxation or social security for the mobility of artists is on the agenda of the ministers for culture. the next meeting is now in november. i am convinced that this is in the wider interest of all, not just ministers, but cultural actors. mr juan i marí, i recently met with the european committee for lesser used languages (eblul). eblul has expanded to 19 member countries today and i think it has a chance to continue with the european union. i would remind you that we have just discussed the lifelong learning integrated programme, and there is a new element for the development of minority and regional languages. we have many more official languages today, many more, and of course, there's room for linguistic diversity. this is a valuable asset that requires investment. mrs. mikko, stalinist gulags will be part of the activities for the commemorative events. history is a teacher of life, but it is important that it be actively developed by the states themselves. we cannot expect the union to replace the fundamental responsibility of the member states to remember their recent history and to develop it in cooperation with their neighbours and with the european union as a whole. i want to assure you that appropriate attention and appropriate funding will be provided despite or in connection with the transition to a civic programme, because it is more about civic maturity than just cultural issues. we also used it to finance special events, like the anniversary of solidarity in poland. there'll be other reasons. i'm convinced that this could be the impetus for such monuments. i think those were the main issues that i felt i had to address. i'm also really grateful for your support of 70 instead of 7. the commission welcomes this, but it is also necessary that the member states consider culture as part of european cooperation much more than they have done so far, because culture is a better way of reflecting the present and the future of a common europe. a common europe is much more about culture than trade or geography. it's about the values that culture represents.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. annex position of the commission
the next item is the report by mrs ruth hieronymi, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a council and european parliament decision on the implementation of the programme to support the european audiovisual sector (media 2007) (com (2004) 0470 - c6-0093/2004 - 2004/0151 (cod)) (a6-0278/2005).
mr. chairman, please! the new proposal on the control of waste trade was to be in the spirit of the principle of better regulation, adopted jointly by the european parliament, the european commission and the council in 2001, with the aim of creating the best possible legislation and introducing beneficial, clear rules. however, the draft report contains, in my view, unnecessary provisions which, instead of improving the shipment of waste, impose unnecessary restrictions and hamper the development of this sector of the economy. once again, we are faced with the case of over-regulation and the creation of legislation that does not correspond to the reality of the conditions prevailing in it. in order to reduce the movement of waste, the rapporteur proposed that waste should not be allowed to be exported if it can be disposed of at the place of production. for the new member states, this would be impossible to achieve, as it is difficult to imagine thousands of new installations in waste storage and generation sites. i am in favour of the free movement of waste within the common market. there are disturbing developments, marked by over-regulation and unnecessary duplication of legislation. examples include the addition of ships and aircraft to the list of hazardous waste and the ban on the export of ships and aircraft for scrapping. i would remind you that these matters are regulated by conventions within the international maritime organization or the international civil aviation organization. both conventions are signed by both the member states and the european union. i also find it difficult to understand the issue of tightening the rules on the export of waste generated by households. again, this issue is governed by the landfill directive 1999. this also applies to the issue of trade in animal waste, which is covered by the existing veterinary directive. i believe that the rules should be harmonised and clarified in the context of an international convention, but that the opportunity should not be used to set new standards and change environmental objectives.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate on the strategy against the avian influenza pandemic is an opportunity to raise questions not only about the responsibility for public health, which is one of the european union's top priorities, but also about safety and truth in public life. is the prediction of a massive loss of life, from 50 million to 150 million, backed up by scientific knowledge or by the business cycle of industry, especially the gluttonous pharmaceutical companies that suffer losses from unused funds? contradictory opinions, a conspiracy of silence and the lack of sound scientific data allow such assumptions, which would be the most vicious, a diabolical manipulation, provoking panic and chaos instead of the sense of emotional security and social solidarity that should characterize large communities intending to pursue the noble goals written in countless eu documents. the question of why the epidemic is spreading is also important.
mr. chairman, please! in 1918, besides the cataclysm of world war i, europe also experienced another cataclysm - the spanish flu, which killed 20 million people. this flu was partly bird flu. europe today is not really prepared for a new epidemic. the pharmaceutical companies are perhaps better prepared than the commission and the governments of the member states, but it would be good if they were not the beneficiaries of this situation, if there were no scandal where millions of people cannot be vaccinated because they cannot afford expensive vaccines. we must guarantee medical prevention regardless of the wealth of the people. the member states that are not prepared for this potential disaster and are waiting for the european commission to solve the problem for them must also be warned.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament should support the actions and decisions of the world trade organisation (wto) and the european centre for disease prevention and control. the adoption of a resolution on a strategy to prevent the spread of avian influenza will be a great opportunity to take action in this field. i am convinced that the following will help to combat the spread of the epidemic more effectively: working with pharmaceutical companies to take specific action to produce new, effective vaccines as soon as possible; providing equal and universal access to vaccines; offering financial assistance to poorer countries to buy the medicine; working towards the isolation of infected areas; improving risk assessment; conducting inspections, studies and analyses of disease in birds; introducing restrictions on international travel. one of the main actions of the european union should be to strengthen the activities of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the fight against infectious diseases, in the form of expert missions, eu representatives to the areas at risk, mainly in the african and eurasian region. the virus in its current form poses no threat to humans and, unless it mutates further, cannot cause a pandemic that would paralyze europe and the world. with that in mind, we need to protect the public from panic on the one hand, and on the other hand, we need to remember that the sooner we act, the better chance we have of getting things under control. the avian influenza case also shows how the european institutions communicate with citizens. a special communication strategy for the commission is needed, prepared under your supervision, commissioner. i call on the commission and the council to take a responsible stance on this matter. it is these institutions that are responsible for assessing the risk of the disease spreading and being transmitted to humans. of course, these institutions should not downplay the current threat, as they did with the mad cow disease, but they should not also foment panic. i would stress once again that brussels should be the source of all the information needed to assess the real risks. the possibility of combating the avian influenza virus should also be assessed realistically. the commission should only support medicines that are actually effective in fighting influenza.
madam president! on 25 april, the treaty of accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union was signed in luxembourg. i remember the debate, the vote and the atmosphere in our parliament at the time, and despite many critical voices, no one questioned and no one is still questioning the place of romania and bulgaria in the european family. on the contrary, all of us, or almost all of us, are happy with the decision we have made. as already underlined in this discussion, there are still shortcomings in the areas of public administration, the judiciary, respect for human rights, especially the rights of the mentally ill as reported by amnesty international, but we nevertheless appreciate the efforts of romania and bulgaria and the achievements made so far. corruption is the most difficult problem to eradicate, for it is deeply rooted in the psyche of a person who has been brought up for generations in poverty, oppression, injustice, and communism. as a pole, i understand this perfectly and i encourage the romanians and bulgarians to fight this scourge internally and externally. let today's criticism be an incentive to work for these countries so that the 1 january 2007 deadline can be kept. i am convinced that romania and bulgaria also want a europe that is strong and just, that is able to make demands of itself and of others.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to welcome the observers from bulgaria and romania to the european parliament today. bulgaria and romania generally meet the political and economic criteria for membership of the european union. both countries have made tremendous progress towards democracy and market economies over the past 16 years. to fully appreciate the progress made, let us go back to 1989. in the recent period, we have seen the consolidation of democracy, the evolution from electoral democracy to liberal democracy. bulgaria and romania in the european union will contribute to the enhancement of security on the european continent, in particular to the stabilisation of the political situation in the balkans. the positive attitude towards the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union does not mean turning a blind eye to the problems that both countries must solve on their way to membership. these problems now concern mainly the introduction of the legal order of the european union, the acquis communautaire, judicial and administrative reforms and the fight against corruption. the bulgarian and romanian governments must accelerate reforms in these areas, and take effective steps in the governance area so as not to delay the accession date of 1 january 2007. the constitutional crisis in the countries of the european union cannot be transferred outside, towards the countries that are on the way to the european union. no country was perfectly prepared for membership. we cannot ask bulgaria and romania to do what the european union did not ask 10 central and eastern european countries to do two years ago. the romanian and bulgarian governments now need to make an extra effort to deal with the current problems. it also requires the mobilisation of pro-reform societies in these countries and a public opinion in the european union itself that is in favour of further enlargement.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are witnessing such a rapid pace of scientific discovery that many of us here in the house may not have formed an opinion on all the moral aspects of new biotechnological research. the aspect of biotechnology research that can raise particular concerns and doubts is that for many of us, and certainly for me, it must be absolutely forbidden. it's all cloning, including therapeutic cloning and all of those studies that involve human planning or lead to the destruction of embryos, because to me, as to so many of us, it's simply the destruction of a human being. so i think we have to be very sensitive about this, and there are at least three reasons for this, beyond the moral reasons: first, it's just human sensitivity. secondly, the principle of subsidiarity: if there are doubts, let the individual countries resolve them on their own territory. thirdly, the pushing for certain solutions can raise a lot of reservations in different member states and, consequently, cause euroscepticism. we shouldn't have to put up with this.
mr. chairman, please! the trend today is to use stem cells to treat various diseases. the use of cells of embryonic origin is unethical and the use of mature cells does not raise such concerns. the former do not bring benefits, while the latter bring many. the former account for about 95% of research funding, the latter for only 5%. what's going on here? on 12 may, professor scolding, a neuroscientist at the university of bristol, gave a very interesting speech to the european parliament's intergroup on bioethics, in which he explained a great many issues on this subject. embryonic cells are carcinogenic, they're genetically altered, they have a rejection problem, they have other functions than repair, so they're forced to do things that are not their normal roles. there is also the problem of ethical concerns. mature bone marrow stem cells have therapeutic functions, and you don't force the cells to do anything other than what they're designed to do. there's no problem with rejection, because your own cells are not carcinogenic, they don't cause genetic changes, there's no ethical problem. the results of all these studies are known not only to professor scolding but to all professionals in the field. why, then, is so much money spent on embryonic research and so little on mature cells? with the latter, there is no potential for drug production. the medicine is taken directly from the patient. the drug companies won't make any money, but with embryos, it's all about growing cell lines for different purposes to sell, hence the research money. these are the consequences of patenting cells.
mr. chairman, please! the provisions of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions do not cover all the problems associated with the development of genetic engineering and biotechnology in a comprehensive manner. in july this year, the commission presented a second report to the council and the european parliament on the development and impact of patent law in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering. as regards the question of whether patents on gene sequences, dna sequences, are admissible in accordance with the classical model of patent reservation, according to which the first inventor may reserve an invention, i believe that it is not necessary to take a position on this issue yet, but to continue to monitor whether there are economic consequences of possible discrepancies between the laws of the member states. i support the commission's initiative to launch a study to analyse the rate of human dna patenting in europe and its possible implications for research and innovation. such research should also cover legal, ethical and social aspects. on the other hand, as regards totipotent stem cells, i am of the opinion that they should not be patentable for reasons of human dignity. i expect the commission to take appropriate action to create a clearer and more predictable regulatory framework for biotechnological inventions. this legal framework should take into account ethical considerations while creating a climate conducive to innovation, scientific development and business.
mr. chairman, please! pope john paul ii, in his encyclical on human work, laborem exercens, said that every man has the right to seek work where it is and where it pays better. i hope so. i'm excited about the idea of a common immigration policy. but is the european union ready to welcome immigrants from all over the world? europe still has a closed labour market for its new citizens, and new countries with high unemployment rates will soon join us. experience shows that immigrants from non-christian countries do not integrate well in europe, despite the efforts of the host countries. would it not be better, if necessary, to seek labour in eastern europe and to create for the needy south a much stronger and more effective aid and cooperation on their own territory?
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to point out that now, when we are designing new routes, new directions, new means of transport, we should also pay attention to what will be in the second order: what further routes, what further means of transport must be designed by us and indicate their value, which we will raise in the future. i would point out that there are many under-appreciated ten routes in europe, such as, in my opinion, the nearest route from scandinavia to southern europe, through my country, poland, from sweden through szczecin, wrocław, bratislava, vienna. there are many other centres in europe too, and it is worthwhile to foresee how we will direct our investments in the future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of financial assistance for the trans-european transport and energy networks is a necessary and justified regulation. both in this draft and in the report by mr mauro, it is difficult to see any controversial solutions. however, it is difficult to assess the regulation in isolation from the list of priority projects that accompany the established projects. i would like to focus on just one project, one example, which fits into the proposed establishment of a common energy area of the european union, namely the baltic gas pipeline project. the european union, judging that it would support this project, decided to choose the more expensive solution over the cheaper one, as the previous contracts concluded by russia guaranteed a cheaper solution, such as the second strand of the yamal pipeline. it therefore decided to choose the latter solution chronologically over the former and to prefer the solution which serves - as commissioner barrot said - to add value and to ensure security of supply to one group of member states of the european union, while undermining that security, or even undermining it, in relation to another group - to the new member states, such as poland or the baltic states. and then there are some negative political aspects. this type of discussion necessarily results in the limitation and deterioration of the group's political relations with russia.
mr. chairman, please! the construction of trans-european transport and energy networks is of vital importance for the union, and in particular for the 10 new member states. the development of the network will increase the cohesion of regions and countries, and is also beneficial for the cooperation and development of economic operators and the consolidation of the single market. the needs are far greater than the possibilities, especially in new countries. so the problem is how to spend it rationally. success will depend to a large extent on the rapid preparation of expansion programmes with a perspective of up to 30 years. the earlier designation of the planned network routes will reduce the unnecessary costs of acquiring the necessary land and will allow the local authorities to stop investment activities that interfere with their route and to take projects into account in development plans. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report.
mr. chairman, please! i see there's a polish festival, i'll continue it. the new rules on financial support for the trans-european transport networks presented by the commission are an example of valuable dumping which is intended to mobilise member states to act in the interests of the european community as a whole. this business, in short, can be reduced to two basic issues. the first is to eliminate the transport bottlenecks in the old member states and the second is to link the transport system of the fifteen to that of the new ten. however, it is to be feared that, as a result of the implementation of these principles, these objectives will be achieved to a different degree, i.e. the former has a better chance of being achieved than the latter. the reason is, of course, that the new member states, especially those like poland, have huge backlogs in road infrastructure, and they have to think not only about how to connect their transport system to the western european system, but how to create their own system in the first place. a solution could be to allow for double community funding for these priority roads. however, this is not possible in the commission's proposal, since the same section of road cannot be financed by the cohesion fund and supported under the new rules. the dumping mentioned at the beginning could therefore be completely ineffective, and in this case amendment no 22 should be accepted, which does not exclude such a possibility. i am a big supporter of that amendment. however, the effectiveness of the new financial instrument may also be limited in relation to the old member states, if, of course, the total amount of financial support is reduced in the budget - as has been said several times today - this would be a complete disaster and the valuable initiative of the commission would be deprived of any meaning.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission has examined this budget in the context of the savings already made in the budgetary perspective which is coming to an end. we therefore protest against the proposed reduction of the transeuropean network by the proposed eur 120 million. we are convinced that the trans-european networks are a fundamental instrument for the realisation of the vision of a cohesive europe and also of regional development. we also disagree with the council's amendments reducing the operating expenditure of the institutions responsible for monitoring transport safety. in particular, we are opposed to reducing spending on the protection of marine waters against pollution. with these two key areas in mind, we would like to make it very clear that the citizens and the economy of the european union are interested in efficient transport. i would like to ask all political groups, including my colleagues, to support me. i would like to thank mr pittelli as a member of parliament for his very substantial contribution to the draft budget.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very grateful for the work you have done for mr pittelli and for the committee on budgets. the challenges facing the european union are: firstly, the slowing down of economic growth; secondly, the deterioration of the competitiveness of eu enterprises; thirdly, unemployment and the increasing stratification between rich and poor; fourthly, the lack of will and the idea of economic dynamism in the newly admitted countries, and consequently the perpetuation of backwardness and economic dependence in the post-communist countries; and fifthly, the push by the leaders of the union for the idea of turkey's accession, which is rejected by the majority of citizens, while ukraine lacks the will, the vision and the agenda for accession. the 2006 budget does not seek to address any of these issues, but rather is a continuation of the strategy of previous years, which means that it leads to a further slowdown in growth, a perpetuation of negative social and economic phenomena. the budgetary expenditure structure is almost identical to that of previous years, which means that large amounts will be spent on low-economic-efficiency sections, while there will be no funds for research and development, financing of large infrastructure projects, aid to regions and backward countries. the size and structure of the 2006 budget do not respond to the challenges of the enlargement of the union to 10 new countries. moreover, the draft budget does not take sufficient account of the accession of bulgaria and romania, and worse, the 2006 budget contains a list of unnecessary expenditure on all kinds of advice, promotions, as well as increased expenditure on administration and bureaucracy. in conclusion, we consider the 2006 budget to be wrong and contrary to the ideological assumptions of a united europe, such as rapid economic development, social peace, solidarity with the regions and backward countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank and congratulate both rapporteurs for the enormous amount of work they have put into the drafting of the budget reports and the enormous number of amendments. once again, parliament faces the difficult task of adopting a draft budget that meets our expectations and is also compatible with the council's approach. in anticipation of the council's difficulties, the commission increased commitments by only 4% and payments by 5.9% in its 2006 draft. and yet the council made serious cuts, ultimately reducing the draft budget from 1.02% to 1.01% of gross national income. the council's continuing cuts in union spending threaten the principles of cohesion and solidarity which underpin the philosophy of european integration. i do not think i need to say how much this is worrying the new member states, including poland. such actions also threaten the implementation, even to a minimal extent, of the lisbon strategy, which is of equally vital interest to the new member states. the polish delegation to the union for a europe of nations (uen) group is celebrating its victory in the parliamentary and presidential elections in poland. the comments we read in the press in many eu countries wrongly emphasize the anti-eu attitude of law and justice and the elected president lech kaczyński. some even go so far as to describe the imagined dangers that these elections will bring to poland and the european union. i would like to emphasize from this point of view that these threats are made up. we are in favour of the union, although we criticise it for its lack of cohesion and solidarity. so is european integration threatened by one of the many parties in europe that are critical of the union's troubling practices, or rather by those who advocate budget cuts? the position of the committee on budgets and, we hope, of parliament as a whole may seem modest, but we are convinced that it can save even the minimum level of expenditure that we can accept, provided it is not worse.
mr. chairman, please! the first reading of the 2006 budget of the european union is proof that the european parliament, a symbol of diversity - and a place for radical voices such as those we have just heard - is capable of reaching a compromise on difficult budgetary issues. there were over 900 amendments at the beginning, and now we have an agreed strategy that should be confirmed in tomorrow's vote. this was achieved despite the fact that 2006 is a difficult year from a budgetary point of view (for the reasons mentioned), with an accumulation of expenditure that was difficult to predict at the beginning of the current financial perspective. this is a great achievement for the rapporteurs: mr pittelle, mr dombrovskis, the goodwill coordinators of the political groups, the advisers of these groups and, of course, the secretariat, headed by mrs maria fialho. the european parliament thus has a position both on the one-year budget for 2006 and on the financial perspective for 2007-13. unfortunately, that cannot be said of the government side, the council side. we expect positions to be taken on a multiannual basis, and we also expect that the conciliation procedure will not be in vain in november on the 2006 budget. it requires a clear mandate from the government, and it will be a crucial test of the british presidency. the mandate for the 2006 conciliation, that's the test that's going to take place in november of this year. the strategy has already been drawn up by parliament. the interesting part of it is that parliament is confirming its right to participate in 1/5 of administrative expenditure, but it is also starting to look for savings from itself. we respect the interinstitutional agreement, we use its power and also the instrument of flexibility in this interpretation, as confirmed by commissioner grybauskaitė. we know that agreement - agreement on money - is the good news that the citizens of the european union are waiting for.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
in writing. title:- regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. - and a draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on emissions from certain air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. mr president, the f-gas regulation is an example of over-regulation that does not fit the reality. why introduce another environmental regulation when statistical analyses show that the harmfulness of f-gases is negligible, even close to statistical error? what we have here is a complete lack of a sustainable approach to environmental and industrial development. it is also alarming that the adoption of a single legal basis for the regulation, i.e. article 95 tec, could cause distortions in the functioning of the common market. poland and other member states which have not restricted the use of f-gases strongly oppose such a decision, claiming that the regulation is based on two legal bases (i.e. articles 95 and 175 tec). this would aim to introduce uniform requirements throughout the european union for restrictions and prohibitions on the placing on the single market of certain products containing f-gases. the principle of the common market would thus not be infringed. there is no doubt that the effects of the reduction of fluorinated gases will be disproportionate in economic terms in most of the new member states to the environmental effect.
mr. chairman, please! the initiative of the british presidency to organise a summit of the heads of state or government of the member states of the european union on globalisation seems to be very valuable. globalization is a new form of political, economic, and cultural colonialism by rich countries against poor and underdeveloped countries. one of the greatest dangers it poses is the unreasonable exploitation of the earth's natural resources. the european commission is proposing the creation of a special fund to combat the effects of globalisation. i would like to ask whether it will also support research and development into environmentally friendly technologies and promote corporate responsibility, including that of multinational companies, for its state. it is to be hoped that the european union countries will be able, thanks to tomorrow's summit among other things, to launch a lasting policy to counter the adverse effects of globalisation.
mr. chairman, mr. minister, i'm not going to let you down. the european union certainly needs a frank conversation like the one in hampton court - it was a good british idea. in answering the questions in prime minister blair's letter to the guests, i wanted to say two things, namely that jobs and growth in europe will come if we do the mundane things promised 50 years ago, namely equal access to the open labour market and the market for services. i would suggest that we deal with that first before we talk about the vague political outlook for europe. can we do more together? i am sure that it is, but that depends on whether we have faith in the european project. this trust is directly linked to the degree of openness and equal access to the services and labour markets. this confidence is linked to the budgetary solidarity of the old countries of the union towards the new ones. the dislike of the common market, the dislike of a budgetary solidarity will destroy faith in the european project in the countries that today most strongly believe in it, for example in a country like poland. mr. secretary, please remember, please remind yourself and the other guests of this dependency at hampton court, even if someone were to call it blackmail. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i must say, prime minister blair's speeches are seductive. after listening to his speech in parliament in june and listening to the final speech today, i wanted to start by saying that i consider mr tony blair, the prime minister, to be one of the few european statesmen. but the spell was broken when the prime minister left. so my words will be of a slightly different character. there are many indications that the british presidency will have a sad record for the european union. the question is what the british presidency will do in the next two months to make real progress on at least two issues. the financial perspective is also a problem for the new member states, which will suffer. does the british presidency have any scenario that would allow these countries to be compensated for their losses? secondly, the european union needs a political dimension. what will the british presidency propose to the european union?
mr president, i was one of those who appreciated the presidency’s speech, but i am afraid i was neither seduced nor convinced. i was not convinced there was any prospect of delivery. what the union needs is not beautiful words, but concrete delivery and for that a multiannual budget is a burning and immediate need. two-thirds of the way through this invisible presidency, we are still where we were in june. hopes rose in the new member states. today they are disappointed and worried because of the gap between promise and performance. lack of budgetary perspective hampers their efforts and long-term economic programming, and deprives them of the benefits of membership. the 2004 enlargement needs to be equipped with the financial tools to bridge the gap and to sustain social and economic cohesion, based on the principle of solidarity. in june we heard about political leadership. the expectation of many was that there would be such leadership on budgetary questions. are we any closer to a satisfactory solution? we heard about a confident europe looking at enlargement as an historic opportunity to build a greater union. can we really have more europe with less money, if any money at all? why is the budget not on the agenda at hampton court? the eu’s credibility is at stake here. the deadlock needs to be broken. we are running out of time. how to face the challenges of globalisation and the social model? you intend to discuss in hampton court whether the union is equipped with the proper financial instruments. that is putting the cart before the horse. instead of delivery we have vision. vision without real content is an illusion, and not much use to our citizens. there are two months left, president-in-office, to fulfil the promise to take us forward to the budget deal. our appeal to you is to use all the skills of the presidency to deliver a budgetary perspective. there is a polish proverb: he who gives quickly, gives twice. the european parliament has delivered a decent, reasonable, bigger budget. this is not ideal but good, better than what the council is able to deliver, if it can deliver at all. why can the council not take it up and approve it? please think it over.
madam president! i wanted to express my gratitude to the commissioner, to mrs bonino for her activism, to mr salafranca for his actions. it's a very complicated issue. afghanistan is a country that has a proud history, a proud history of afghan mountaineers who fought the invaders, a country that is undoubtedly, in a sense, a drug exporter to the world. it is good that the european union is not turning its back on afghanistan, it is good that the european taxpayer - let us be frank - is still funding the efforts to promote democracy in this country, one might say - forgotten by god and man. it would certainly be a fatal thing if only the americans were interested in afghanistan, and so even though it is a costly operation, it is good that the european union is funding this arduous and long process of democracy in afghanistan. it's good that we had a significant contribution to the last election. i think it was a breakthrough, let's see how long it lasts. and certainly we should not forget that afghanistan is a territory where many countries have influence -- political influence, economic influence -- that interests cross there, certainly iran's -- and it's worth mentioning, certainly pakistan's -- but also american interests. and then there's the rather incredible situation where a huge part of the budget of this country is the drug industry, where the state budget is only enough for a third of the salary for the administration of this country. without american help, without european union help, this country would not exist. and a very honest question: is it not true that without our financial support, afghanistan would not be a country that is exporting terrorism to the world even more? i think it's worth supporting the democratic process in this country. it is also necessary to say this: we europeans are there, perhaps more appreciated or more accepted than our american friends, and this is a signal that the union should take an interest in afghanistan, that we should continue to be there, and i would like to thank all those colleagues who have brought this banner of the european union to afghanistan and have shown that we want to support them. i think this debate is a sign of the interest of our parliament in this important issue. afghanistan is not on the moon, it is really a european problem.
madam president! i would like to express my gratitude to the afghan people and the afghan authorities, in particular to president karzai, for holding free elections, which represent one of the essential steps towards building democracy and peace in afghanistan. the elections on september 18 this year saw 5,700 candidates, including 575 women. elections were held for the wolesi jirga, the lower house of the national assembly, and for the provincial councils. to give you an idea of the scale of the problem, consider that 26,000 polling stations were set up across the country, and in kabul itself, for example, the ballot paper had seven pages, with 617 names on it for 62 seats in the constituency. 30% of the seats in the wolesi jirga and the provincial councils are reserved for women. while more than 3 million women voted in the 2004 presidential election, more than 7,000 new women registered to vote in this year's election, representing 44% of all new voters. this is just the beginning of afghan democracy. the european parliament's mission to afghanistan ahead of the elections, led by mr brok of the committee on foreign affairs and mrs morgantini of the committee on development, met candidates, women's organisations, human rights groups and ngos in kabul, herat and bâmiân on 14-19 july. we were faced with the hopes for democracy's victory, as well as the threats to that process. i would put the security of the country, violence against women and corruption among the main threats. many former military leaders accused of human rights violations and even crimes participated in the elections and were elected. there is also a risk that afghan politics will be influenced by criminal elements, primarily drug lords and traffickers. the european union must do everything possible to stabilise afghan democracy and the country's resurgent civil society.
madam president! one of the fundamental elements in the process of building a democratic state is freedom of speech, of which the media is a great example. when azerbaijan became a member of the council of europe 4 years ago, it committed to guaranteeing freedom of speech, media independence, and the work of journalists. we know this very well, and we must constantly speak about and remind the media of the important role they play, free and equal access to them for all citizens and political forces, especially during the election campaign, as well as before the upcoming elections in november. what are the facts? the murder of one of the most famous journalists elmar huseynov. although his wife reported that he was being followed by unknown persons, and many of his friends said that huseynov expected to be murdered, no one intervened. after the murder, president aliyev declared that it was an open provocation against the state and accused the perpetrators of the crime of damaging the positive image of azerbaijan; the government even asked other countries for help, but so far the investigation has not yielded any results, and is provoking a lot of speculation. the most popular press is still controlled by the government. the opposition press is a margin, the monitor newspaper stopped publishing after huseynov's death, his successor created a new magazine true azerbaijan, but almost immediately faced enormous difficulties with its publication. today, the magazine has a circulation of only 3,000. the newspaper's editor-in-chief jeni musavat who is also an mp and chairman of the musavat party is one of the opposition leaders who has been imprisoned since october 2003 and although he was pardoned by the president, his team had to stop its activities due to too much pressure from the ruling party, too high fines imposed by the court. this is the atmosphere in which the opposition press is operating in azerbaijan today, even before the elections. the main channels of the state-owned television, which has been privatized for several months, operate in a virtually unchanged manner that excludes the participation of the opposition, and although new television stations are being prepared to reach a wider public directly, this is almost impossible. finally, there is a chance for a free media in azerbaijan, only there is too little time left to create a truly diverse media image before the november elections.
madam president! the enlargement of the european union has increased the number of countries involved in the barcelona process. i would like to stress that it is important not only for malta and cyprus but also for the countries of central and eastern europe, and not only for historical reasons but also for reasons that are as current and pragmatic as possible. 20 years ago, the only mediterranean country with which poland had close contacts was libya, a country with which the european communities had much worse relations. thousands of poles worked in libya, and the polish translation of gaddafi's green book was published in a gigantic print run. today is different. tens of thousands of polish tourists vacation in tunisia and egypt every year. many poles make pilgrimages to israel. polish scientists are conducting research in all countries of the region, from syria to morocco. the interest in the broader concept of neighbourhood policy has therefore become the domain not only of politicians and diplomats but also of a large part of the societies of the new member states. the problems of illegal immigration, respect for human rights, equal rights for women, the development of democracy and the economy of the mediterranean countries have also become our problems. europe has never been, is not and probably never will be a lonely island. our relations with our closest neighbours are a measure of our solidarity and responsibility - solidarity understood not only as an obligation towards partners within the european union but as a task that goes far beyond europe, solidarity that reaches out to wherever people want peace, stability, the rule of law, economic growth and freedom. the more these values are actually implemented in our neighbours to the south and east, the better for the european union itself. the new member states of the union want to be fully involved in building a political partnership in the field of security, an economic and financial partnership and a partnership in the social, cultural and humanitarian fields.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to two things. the european union's mediterranean policy is a mediterranean partnership between the jewish, christian and islamic communities. in this era of growing fundamentalism and the threat of terrorism, it is essential to work together with universities, schools, civil society and churches to promote mutual understanding and tolerance among the young generation of mediterranean societies. i can say that the experience of the mediterranean partnership is an inspiration for the new member states to develop a model for the eastern european union policy. the formation of a common cultural space based on human rights and democracy, rejecting fanaticism on all sides, is our response to chauvinistic movements in the modern world. the second issue is the problem of migration. migration can be seen as a threat, most recently expressed in the books of oriani fallaci, whose real message is to turn the european union into a kind of new apartheid. but migration can be an opportunity for europe's development, for the construction of an international order based on peace and human dignity. the barcelona process should show the reality of such an order, it should be europe's response to the threat of a clash of civilizations.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a great pleasure for me to speak here today because i am meeting people whom i personally respect: mr diamandouros, with whom we work very closely in the committee on petitions, of which i am chairman; mr mavrommatis, who is one of the most active members of our committee; and mrs wallström, with whom our committee has a close and good relationship. what qualities should an ombudsman have in order to carry out his duties well? i'd like to name three. first, professionalism and competence. these are qualities that professor diamandouros possesses to the highest degree. second, objectivity and impartiality. there is no doubt about these qualities. we have never come across any allegation that professor diamandouros is acting in an unbiased manner. if it were, we'd be getting these signals. it never happened. the third quality that is less often mentioned today is the dignity of office. professor diamandouros is doing his job with great dignity. the office also requires a certain element of personalization. and this element is very clearly seen in the activities of professor diamandouros. we're very pleased. every official should be recognized. professor diamandouros is delighted with this recognition. i know this because i'm in touch with the national spokesmen, and this is the best test. professor zoll, the ombudsman for civil rights in poland, has always expressed his appreciation for the work of professor diamandouros. this criterion is very convincing to us. our committee on petitions knows how well professor diamandouros works. and the third thing is the re-election, which professor diamandouros won by a landslide. for all that, professor, thank you. i also thank the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, mr. speaker, i'm not going to let you down. i thank professor diamandouros for his precise discussion of 2004. it was particularly important in view of the enlargement of the union to 10 new member states. i would also like to express my appreciation and thanks to mr mavrommatis for his solid report. the european ombudsman identified three challenges: respecting citizens' rights under eu law, maintaining the highest standards of administration and ensuring the best and most effective service to citizens. professor diamandouros has responded positively to these important challenges. so, professor, please accept my appreciation for trying to serve people in situations that were not your responsibility. the 10 years of this institution are a good example of how to raise awareness of the rights of our community citizens. i speak as the representative of poland to the new country. we have experience with the functioning of the polish ombudsman and the ombudsman for children. all this is to build a european community of citizens who are aware of their rights and responsibilities, and i would like to stress that. of course, there is still much to be done. in my view, the knowledge of the charter of fundamental rights and the code of good administrative behaviour, especially among young people, is a source of hope. it is important to maintain the principle of transparency wherever possible. a word of caution, professor: i think you have unnecessarily referred to the constitutional treaty, which is not in force - you know what happened after the two referendums. i think that the solutions that have been put in place under the maastricht treaty are important. finally, it would be wonderful if your office didn't have to exist and if the law was perfectly obeyed. allow me also to wish the jubilee: ad multos annos!
mr president, mr speaker, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. home of the ombudsman greece won the european basketball championship a few weeks ago, again after a dozen years. i am saying this because i read in parliament's draft resolution that the ombudsman has provided effective assistance in 70% of the cases pending. your countrymen, mr. speaker, the best basketball players in europe would tell you that to have a 70% efficiency in two- and three-point shooting is an incredible efficiency, and i congratulate you on that efficiency. i also congratulate you on the increase in complaints, because it shows that people are taking your institution seriously, believe in the need for it. i do not agree with the statement in the motion for a resolution that only half of this increase in complaints is due to the new union. not only that, but half of them, because the european ombudsman is very new to the people of the new member states. don't worry, we'll put you to sleep with complaints.
mr advocate general, you are the spokesman for the 450 million citizens of the european union, both when they write to you individually and when they act in an organised manner. you can be contacted by any citizen of the union and any natural person residing in the territory of the member states that is the law. every person, and not just the adult who can look after his own interests, but also the part of the european union citizens who are not adults, namely children. there are some elements in your report which indicate that your office is interested in this issue, but i would like to ask a general question: to what extent do you personally feel responsible for representing this part of the citizens of the european union, for representing the interests and needs of the youngest citizens of the union before the eu institutions? secondly, mr advocate, i congratulate you on your consistency in introducing the code of good administrative behaviour. this code is being adopted by the administrations of the member states, it is becoming increasingly popular in europe, including in my country, poland, but good administration starts with the correct selection of staff, with the recruitment and employment of officials without any discrimination, with full respect for the principle of equality. i would therefore like to ask how you assess the procedures for recruiting citizens from the new member states to the eu institutions in this context. is it not discriminatory that there are no or only a small number of nationals of the new member states among officials, especially among senior officials of the union? mr advocate general, we are working towards a union that is closer to the citizen and you have taken the first step in that direction. you are the closest to these citizens, they need you and they like you. i congratulate you.
mr president, the european ombudsman plays a very important role in a democratic european society. it is a direct listener of citizens who report to it on the malfunctioning of the european institutions. although the vast majority - and in fact up to 75% - of complaints concern matters outside the ombudsman's remit, it is often seen as the last resort in the fight against the incompetence of national authorities. in this context, the provision of reliable, factual information to citizens about their rights and the role of the european ombudsman should be a priority. the ombudsman's activities to date, in the person of prof. diamandouros, such as the preparation and dissemination of annual reports and the clear public activity in the field of informing citizens, deserve great praise. nevertheless, it is absolutely essential to continue to work towards increasing the effectiveness of its actions. the ombudsman should be the guardian of good administration in the european institutions, working even more closely with his counterparts at local and regional level. citizens' complaints need to be dealt with quickly and effectively, and the ombudsman's efforts to encourage the european institutions to shorten the time taken to deal with complaints relating, for example, to the refusal of access to documents should be supported. public access to this type of information concerning the european institutions is a sign of openness and transparency in their work and should therefore be sought to ensure this right for all citizens of the european union, for whom these institutions work. in particular, the european commission should, firstly, stop refusing to disseminate its documents and, secondly, adopt as soon as possible a european code of good administrative behaviour, in order to put an end to the current situation whereby the european institutions apply different codes of conduct. (laughter)
member of the commission. mr president, the commission continues fully to support the role of the united nations and its efforts to bring a political solution to the conflict in western sahara. we share the hope that the new personal envoy to the secretary general of the united nations, mr peter van walsum, as well as the new special representative, mr francesco bastagli, will bring new impetus to the search for a political solution. the commission encourages all the parties involved and the international community fully to cooperate with them towards this objective. the commission also welcomes the release of 404 moroccan prisoners of war by the polisario front. this is a very positive measure that will no doubt contribute to finding a solution. regarding recent tensions in western sahara, the commission followed last month’s demonstrations, arrests, trials and hunger strikes very closely, and continues to monitor the situation. the commission, through its delegation in rabat, and in cooperation with the member states, has undertaken high-level demarches to the moroccan authorities and other parties involved, expressing concern and requiring direct information about the situation and the measures to be taken. moreover, the commission continues to work resolutely on human rights, since respect for human rights is an essential principle of the european union’s external relations. in the context of our bilateral relationship with morocco, a sub-committee on human rights, democratisation and good governance is being set up. the date of its first meeting will probably be fixed at the association council with morocco in november. this sub-committee will allow the commission to approach the human rights issue as a whole, including freedom of expression and assembly. these issues – human rights, democratisation, political and institutional reform – are also considered in the action plan agreed between the commission and morocco within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: uzbekistan, home to the legendary tamerlane, a country of over 20 million people on the silk road, is aware of its historical heritage and plays a key geostrategic role at the crossroads of europe, the middle east and asia. uzbekistan's society and rich culture make it a country that is well placed to play an important role in the establishment of an international political order based on peace, democracy and respect for human rights. the authoritarian regime of islam karimov suppresses the democratic aspirations of the uzbek society, commits violations of fundamental human rights, is responsible for the massacre in andijan. last saturday, october 22nd of this year, opposition leader, businessman sanjar umarov was arrested. his lawyer vitaly krasilovsky has given disturbing news about umarov's humiliating treatment in custody. the lawyer is concerned about sanjar umarov's condition. the detention session lasted only a few minutes and umarov was unable to calmly answer his lawyer's questions. this is one of many human rights violations by the karimov regime. the european union cannot remain indifferent to the situation in uzbekistan. our actions must be directed at the civil society of this country, they must serve to build good relations with the uzbek people, help the victims of political repression by the authoritarian regime. the visit of representatives of the european parliament to uzbekistan remains the main issue. the uzbek authorities must give us permission to visit andijan and meet with media, opposition and ngos. i would like to express my hope that the good relations between the european union and uzbekistan will continue to develop, and that they will contribute to the development and prosperity of the people of this country. they will contribute to the development of democracy and human rights in uzbekistan and throughout the central asian region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the breakthrough that led to the establishment of a democratic government in poland in 1989 and which subsequently led to the fall of the berlin wall and the disintegration of the entire communist bloc ruled from moscow, unfortunately did not lead to the establishment of a democratic system respecting human rights in all the countries of the former communist bloc. unfortunately, the changes we have seen in poland, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary - the introduction of systems that respect human rights - did not take place in ukraine initially. we still don't see these changes in belarus, and unfortunately we can't see them in uzbekistan either. the events of 13 may 2005 were a kind of litmus test for relations in uzbekistan. the attitude of a government which firstly refuses to allow foreign observers to explain the causes of the deaths of many people, which intimidates journalists, which does not allow external inspection, requires the european parliament to take a firm stand. we therefore call for clarification of all these matters and for democratic relations to be established in uzbekistan.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. just before the parliamentary elections in uzbekistan in december, human rights violations are again the subject of debate in the european parliament. uzbekistan is a republic of the former soviet union, where, despite partial independence from the communist regime, the methods of exercising power have not changed. islam karimov, a former communist presidential secretary, has emerged as a dictator who has been shuffling between rival powers: russia and the united states - which until recently rented military bases there - as well as europe. the uzbek region is thus of strategic political and economic importance to both russia and the united states, further complicating the situation in the republic, which has been one of the most important asian allies of the us in the fight against terrorism since 2001. uzbekistan is also a member of the shanghai five, which also aims to combat terrorism in asia. moscow is using the threat of islamic fundamentalism as a "scarecrow" to try to get uzbekistan out of its grip. with its oil and gas and other natural resources, uzbekistan has enjoyed economic success, particularly with the help of the united states. the ethnically diverse population of the city, which included muslims, orthodox christians, and catholics, was not hostile. however, in recent times, due to the clash of external influences and karimov's authoritarian mentality, there have been violations of human rights and persecution of the opposition, especially the islamic one. on may 13, a bloody crackdown on a demonstration in andijan left several hundred civilians dead. despite the protests, the perpetrators of the massacre were not held accountable, and the press virtually ignored the tragedy. foreign observers in particular, and reports by amnesty international and human rights watch, have reported unprecedented and barbaric torture of opponents of the regime in uzbekistan's prisons. they describe the persecution of human rights, independent journalists and political activists who revealed the truth about the events of may 13. after the failed assassination attempt on his life, karimov has called muslim critics fanatics and terrorists, justifying the persecution of independent and oppositional political thought. pope john paul ii reminded us that freedom is always a challenge, and power is a challenge to freedom, and it cannot be exercised otherwise than by serving. the international community and those in power should always put human dignity and human rights above economic interests. we therefore call for an end to repression, respect for human dignity and respect for the fundamental obligations of the charter of human rights and the principles of democracy.
member of the commission. mr president, following the andijan massacre and uzbekistan's persistent rejection of an independent international inquiry into these events, the european union has taken a very firm stance vis-à-vis uzbekistan through the adoption of the council conclusions of 3 october, following the earlier conclusions adopted since may. the package of restrictive measures includes the partial suspension of the partnership and cooperation agreement, an arms embargo, a selective visa ban as well as consideration of actions in the framework of the united nations and the osce. that is a very clear and strong political signal by the union to uzbekistan. the commission fully supports the member states on the imposition of the visa ban, the arrangements for the implementation of which are currently being finalised. the commission equally fully supports the implementation of the arms embargo and has prepared the legislation for the council to be effective immediately. in terms of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), the commission has immediately suspended all further technical meetings with uzbekistan. that means that we have suspended the subcommittees on trade and investment and on justice, liberty and security, along with the cooperation committee. although the initiative for the cooperation council meeting rests with the member states, the commission takes the view that the meeting could be maintained in order not to sever our political dialogue with uzbekistan altogether. the commission takes note of the decision to postpone the sixth eu-uzbekistan parliamentary cooperation committee meeting and regrets that the delegation would not be allowed to travel to the andijan region nor to have unrestricted access to members of the opposition, non-governmental organisations and the independent media. with reference to community assistance, the commission has agreed to a reduction and reorientation of eu assistance from eur 11 million to eur 9.25 million in this year, and from eur 9 million to eur 7.25 million next year. in spite of those cuts, we strongly believe that targeted eu assistance should continue. it should focus on poverty reduction in the ferghana valley and the development of a civil society, as well as on legal and judicial reforms and on the development of higher education. i should like to take this opportunity to stress that the human rights situation which existed before the events in may was already very bleak and a source of deep concern to the commission. to name but one of our concerns, the commission would very much welcome a public commitment in support of president karimov's condemnation of torture. in addition, the commission will continue to press the uzbeks to establish an immediate moratorium on all death sentences before the abolition of the death penalty in 2008. the commission is also concerned about reports of the detention and harassment of people including human rights defenders, journalists and local activists who have questioned the authorities' version of events. the commission will continue its efforts in the fight against drug trafficking, improving border management, energy networks and transport networks. the exclusion of uzbekistan from such regional programmes would damage uzbekistan's neighbours more than uzbekistan itself.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the last great lamas of tibet, tenzin delek rinpoche, has been committed to the preservation of tibetan culture for 20 years. as a prominent religious figure in tibet, he was also actively involved in economic, cultural and social activities. the tibetan lama has long been a source of embarrassment to the chinese authorities, despite the fact that he has never participated in political demonstrations. as a spiritual leader who is sincerely committed to important social causes such as building schools for orphans, a hospice, local roads, and also promoting care for the elderly, he is a peaceful authority, with no shadow of aggression in his actions. however, his popularity was seen as a threat to the chinese local authorities, who arrested him on the pretext of alleged complicity in a series of attacks. a man accused of terrorism has been sentenced to death without evidence or due process. he's been held in inhumane conditions for months awaiting execution. as a result of prolonged torture, lama tenzin delek is now in a fatal state of health. in light of the above, we demand that the chinese authorities improve the conditions in which he is being held. we also demand that the chinese government take steps to improve the conditions of detention of prisoners, to abolish torture and, above all, the death penalty. as an international community, we must send a clear signal that we do not condone the incarceration of people who have not been proven guilty. china must respect international human rights standards and respect human dignity and civil liberties. i therefore also call on the international organisations to put pressure on china to finally engage in a constructive dialogue with a view to a final settlement of the tibet problem.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today, when we are debating tibet again, we must reflect on the effectiveness of the european parliament and the european commission, because the debate on the same issue again shows that it is not effective. we've heard here that this is china's internal affairs, and that's the position of the chinese embassy in brussels. well, it's not like that. the concept of internal affairs, which is supposed to justify any crime against one's own people, is a concept and doctrine held only by tyrants, which has never been held in civilized europe. in earlier centuries the catholic church and other religions demanded proper treatment of their own citizens and did not agree that a ruler could do with his subjects as he pleased. today, international organizations always stress that internal affairs, when they violate basic moral principles, are matters of the people. we have to realize that this is not just about this monk, this is simply about the destruction of tibet, the destruction of the tibetan people and culture, just because this peaceful people exists. the existence of a nation with a certain cultural, historical, social distinctiveness is reason enough for the chinese authorities to try to destroy it. today, instead of rejoicing over the construction of a railway linking tibet to china, we must be worried because this railway is also meant to destroy tibet through the influx of chinese entrepreneurs and chinese people. our parliament is doing a lot in this direction. there is the intergroup on tibet, which is being led very actively and energetically by our colleague, mr thomas mann, but that is not enough. commissioner, it is high time that the european commission acted so decisively - and i think it can, because it is a powerful body of the european union - to finally put things in order in china, and as a first step, to save that poor tibetan monk. (laughter)
member of the commission. mr president, the human rights situation in tibet is of constant concern to the european union and it features very high on the agenda of the eu-china human rights dialogue. in that context, the european union has always addressed the rights of minorities, especially in tibet, and urges the chinese authorities to preserve the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. the case of the tibetan monk tenzin delek rinpoche has regularly been brought to the attention of the chinese authorities in the course of this dialogue. in addition, the eu troika has made three approaches to the chinese government, twice last year and in the early part of this year, when the troika met chinese foreign minister tang jiaxuan. in all those instances, the european union voiced its urgent demand for the abolition of the death penalty in china, expressed the hope that tenzin delek rinpoche would not be executed, and asked for information about the conditions of his arrest and his state of health. whilst welcoming the decision by the chinese authorities on 26 january 2005 this year to commute tenzin delek rinpoche’s death sentence to life imprisonment, the european union remains deeply concerned about the persistent doubts surrounding his trial and the heavy sentence handed down to him. the european union is fully committed to continuing to follow this issue very closely in the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue. on a more general level, as part of its overall policy on tibet, for many years the european union has called for and will continue to call for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities as the only realistic way to find a lasting solution to the question of tibet. the third visit of the dalai lama’s special envoys at the end of last year was an encouraging move that should be pursued further.
i'm all for free trade, but should we trade freely with a country that doesn't recognize freedom in other areas? i don't think you can justify china's behavior by saying it's cultural diversity. the death penalty is not acceptable in any culture because it strikes at the very nature of humanity. china is proud of its new railway in tibet, which has become the highest railway in the world. it is worth noting, however, that the measure of civilization's greatness is not only infrastructure investment. if china can build such railway lines, it means that they can improve the conditions in which prisoners are held. they would only have to be willing. maintaining the emargo on the arms trade with china is crucial. why would you do that? well, because the fate of tenzin delek rinpoche is the best proof that china has not learned from what happened on june 4, 1989. for the poles and the chinese, it's a symbolic date. but in poland, he is a symbol of hope, because the first partially free elections to the parliament were held. in china, the date became a symbol of oppression, the tiananmen drama. in 1989, i wore a stamp with two words in chinese - freedom and democracy. and that's what i wish for the tibetans and the chinese people today - freedom and democracy!
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my concern about the recent statements by the european union's trade commissioner, mr peter mandelson, on the negotiations in the world trade organisation. one of them, in particular, which took place on 18 october 2005 in luxembourg during a meeting of the foreign ministers of the member states of the european union, seems to be particularly threatening. commissioner mandelson said at the time that the eu had to make concessions to other countries in the wto negotiations because the eu would gain more from exporting industrial goods than it would lose from less protection for agriculture. this statement may indicate that the commissioner is willing to sacrifice the interests of eu agriculture at the hong kong summit in december in exchange for vague gains in other areas. the commissioner's statement seems to have clearly exceeded his powers and the implementation of the commissioner's ideas could result in the loss of some 1,200,000 jobs in and around eu agriculture. i ask the president of the european parliament to convey these reservations to the president of the european commission, mr barroso.
mr. chairman, please! the announcement by russia of its decision to impose a ban on imports of meat and certain meat products from poland on 10 november and on plant production on 14 november caused great concern among polish farmers and food producers. poland is a leading producer of meat, especially pork, and has serious problems with surplus grain. the loss of such a large market as the russian market threatens to bankrupt many farms. after poland's accession to the european union, polish farmers suffered almost all the losses: they lost the profitability of industrial crops, cereals, fruits, vegetables, potatoes, and announced a reduction in the area under cultivation and a reduction in the price of sugar beets. polish farmers have endured much, but they can no longer endure the eu's laziness and injustice combined with the russian blockade. the question is therefore whether the union is for all or only for the chosen few. if for all, what will be the protective measures for polish agriculture, which is an integral part of the agricultural market of the entire european union? (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! in the history of europe after the second world war, there are particular events that formed the basis for european unity, which today forms the moral and political foundation of the european union. among them is the letter of the polish bishops to the german bishops in the autumn of 1965, in which the polish bishops, through the german bishops of the roman catholic church, address the german public with the famous phrase: "we grant forgiveness and ask for forgiveness". writing this sentence twenty years after the war, when the memory of the suffering of the nazi occupation was still alive in poland, required real civic courage. the message was intended for polish-german reconciliation, and was the reason for the historic treaty signed five years later by willy brandt in warsaw, regulating the border issue between poland and germany. i wish to pay tribute to the polish bishops in the european parliament today. i would like to commemorate the author of the message, archbishop of wrocław bolesław kominka, silesian, polish patriot, great european.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission president, mr barroso, has offered france immediate aid of €50 million to help pay for some of the damage caused by days of unrest in the country. this money is to be used to create new jobs. i understand the good intentions of president barroso. i only regret that poland and slovakia, the two countries with the highest unemployment rates in the european union, have never received such extraordinary funds to create new jobs. barroso has announced an additional billion for france for this very purpose. are poland and slovakia and other countries of the new union to organise such riots on such a scale that they can count on similar measures to create new jobs? is this not yet another example of the european union being made up of a europe of the better and a europe of the worse? better, more funded, and worse, less funded? europe a and europe b. i understand that president barroso is actually encouraging poland, slovakia, hungary, the baltic countries to initiate such uprisings and thus to get extra money from brussels. (laughter)
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. i believe that the social dimension of globalization is one of the fundamental problems of this process. i am glad that the european commission has made a similar statement in your statement. i hope that is also the view of the council of ministers, although i see no one in the seats reserved for the council. it is important for us that the european parliament is dealing with this and we should thank the rapporteur for the draft resolution he has presented to us. i'd like to present two -- i think -- important aspects of this issue, two of the many that could be presented. first, the social dimension of globalisation depends to a large extent, and perhaps decisively, on the emergence and consolidation of civil societies in all countries, and especially in those where democracy and the economy are not sufficiently developed. the european union should promote the development of civil societies in all the countries with which it cooperates, especially in developing countries. the second aspect is the role of the european union in monitoring globalisation and promoting its social dimension. globalization is inevitable, and it is also necessary, and even necessary, but it does carry serious social risks, as we all know. it should be controlled in such a way as to avoid its negative aspects as much as possible. this is the social dimension of globalisation, and i believe that the european union can and should play a key role in this area.
madam president! globalization is an irreversible phenomenon, but fortunately it is also a great opportunity for people from all continents, countries and regions. to see this, just look at the ever-rich china. but just as nineteenth-century capitalism needed a socialist correction, so today's globalization needs a social dimension, without which it will remain nothing but a missed opportunity for humanity. at a time when the union must unanimously call for a globalisation with a human face, the painful reality is that it lacks integration, a common foreign policy, a strong budget, a service directive that would allow new countries to take off, the mobility of workers within the union, while capital is mobile, and an unfair common agricultural policy. the rapporteur deserves all the more praise and applause for having forgotten for a moment the unjust division between the old and the new union, while defending the fair distribution of the planet's goods. let the european social model of the lisbon strategy become our business card, our leading export product. in an age of so much accumulated wealth, the most important task in the world is to decide how to distribute it fairly, but also to control how everyone can live and work with dignity. the delocalisation of capital must be followed by the delocalisation of human rights and workers' rights. let us set up institutions to support the wto and to deal with the social dimension of globalisation, such as the population development council mentioned in the report.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the issue we're talking about may also concern my country, poland. the polish government's official statement is: "there are no such prisons in poland". but what is characteristic is that this statement does not directly refer to the past. this case, therefore, still needs to be clarified. the former minister of national defense has denied reports that al-qaeda terrorists are being held in special prisons in our country. but he did it in a radio interview in the way that the soviet agency tass used to do it. when tass denied the report, it was in fact confirming a denied fact. but i would appeal to the members to keep the proper proportions in this debate. the fight against terrorism is necessary, it must be fought with toughness and determination, but it cannot be unchecked by public opinion. i am convinced that we must reject two extremes: the end justifies the means, and the fight against international terrorism must sacrifice even democratic values and human rights. this can't be happening. but we also cannot bring about a kind of paralysis -- paralysis of the western world and paralysis of the defense of our values. i think that these two extremes must be eliminated and it would be wrong for either of these extremes to prevail in the european parliament or in any of the institutions of the european union. i think the european parliament is the place where we must say clearly, clearly and decisively: the fight against terrorism - yes, a hard and ruthless fight, but one that will be controlled by public opinion and thereby gain the mandate and legitimacy of public opinion of the free west.
mr. chairman, please! the polish government's denial of the existence of alleged camps in poland has already been mentioned by mr czarnecki and commissioner frattini. of course, i cannot personally vouch for this, because i have not searched the woods in the area where the suspected plane in poland was supposed to land, but the fact that in 2003 a boeing belonging to the cia actually landed in this place does not in any way indicate that such camps existed or exist in my country. we don't know why the plane landed, whether to take fuel, make repairs, or take someone on board, but we know that the same boeing landed in 2003 in the czech republic, sweden, and recently also in palma on the island of mallorca, but these countries are not accused or suspected of having such camps. the question is, why? is it because it is wrongly assumed that there is no freedom of the media in poland and journalists would not immediately detect such a sensation? logically speaking, i would be surprised if instead of using american military bases for this purpose, or countries where media freedom does not exist or is restricted, such as egypt or thailand, the americans would choose a country in the european union, exposing it to violations of european treaties and law. we may be willing to participate in a manipulation designed to launch a 'test balloon' to test the reactions of the new european states by testing the cohesion of the transatlantic alliance. or maybe it's about giving al-qaeda terrorists new targets to attack and directing those attacks against poland and romania. i therefore recommend that we exercise great caution in the face of such an over-interpretation of the facts as we are witnessing, because this is not only the result of a manipulation that puts the real problems of europe on the back burner, but also creates a real threat of terrorist attacks on the people of poland. i am glad that there is a chance for the council of europe to look into this issue. the sooner it happens, the better. in response to mrs buitenweg's request, i would like to say that i would be very pleased to invite the libe commission to poland to examine this problem in person.
mr. chairman, please! in connection with the article by dana priest in the washington post on november 2nd, which revealed the existence of secret cia prisons in eastern europe, i wanted to address two issues. the so-called "secret cia prisons" are outside the jurisdiction of any court, not only international institutions, but also the us judiciary - both the us civil and military judiciary. this in itself violates the fundamental liberal democratic values that are the foundation of america, the european union and the transatlantic alliance. the cia's secret prisons and interrogation methods in detention centers for suspected terrorists have drawn public opposition, including from many republican politicians in the united states. this is evidenced by senator john mccain's recent initiative to block the use of torture and torture-like methods in such facilities. the second concerns the possible location of secret cia detention centres in eu member states and countries in the process of joining. this situation undermines the basic european treaties. the european union has every right to demand that the member states, including my country, poland, take these allegations seriously, re-examine the case and clarify all the circumstances surrounding the landing of a cia prison plane on polish territory.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's programme tries to identify the situation in which europe and the european union find themselves; it tries to describe the threats that exist. let us look at what the commission is proposing that is new and original. he proposes to achieve: prosperity through knowledge, solidarity through work, security through the limitation of civil rights and the enforcement of the law. is this the plan of action of an institution that is the guardian of the treaties? are these your priorities, or are they a series of promises, wishful thinking, that should yet have the power to fulfill itself? now i'm going to get to the point. first, let us look at what the commission is proposing for the constitutional treaty. the description says that the commission regrets that the constitution will not be ratified in the foreseeable future. it also stated that the commission intends to participate actively in and support national debates. mr. chairman, that's not enough. it is not enough to express regret, it is not enough to wait for national debates to bring about a solution. what we need is a push, a push from you. second, better law enforcement. we all want laws that are not only better and more effective, but also more understandable to citizens. i doubt whether the commission is really going in that direction. for example, will the withdrawal of 68 legislative proposals make the remaining legislation initiated by the commission better, clearer and closer to the citizen? of course you didn't. that's not what simplifying the law is about. and lastly, i was struck by the ominous news that the commission wanted to set up a 'new structure' responsible for implementing better law. so instead of a substantive action, we have a formal one. i have the impression that the commission is acting here according to parkinson's law, according to the principle: if you do not know what to do, set up a new institution. mr. president, we expect less big words, less promises, and more bold, effective action. it is not just this house that is waiting for this, it is the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in light of the incident that took place during the exhibition, i would like to express my deepest indignation. i am deeply moved by the words of both ladies, and particularly by those of mrs gomes, who used the words 'nazi' and 'fascist' in her address to me and to mr khrushchev. this is unacceptable and it's unacceptable in this forum. i come from a country where my family was murdered by the nazis and i don't want that kind of language used against me. i understand the point of view of the honourable member, but i would ask that such words not be used in the parliamentary forum against me and against all other members. especially in situations like this one. this really shouldn't be happening.
mr. chairman, please! we are in favour of rejecting a project whose phonetic similarity to the acronym itself indicates that it was created exclusively for the rich, who, after long deliberation, have prepared an authoritarian and centralistic plan of action - under the auspices of health and environmental protection, of course - which is to lead to the bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises with the inevitable consequence of hundreds of thousands of people out of work. the takeover of the market by the big chemical companies will bring few profits, and any hypothetical improvement in health from the theoretical improvement in the environment will be incomparably small compared to the health losses of the frustrated unemployed, deprived of livelihoods, opportunities for existence, development and hope. the increase in information and the supposed trust of consumers in products is not worth the enormous economic and social costs. the evidence of sophisticated manipulation to the detriment of the weaker is the pre-draft directive the implementation of recommended toxicity tests by chemical companies and the lack of consent to share the results. to obtain reliable data, the most toxic substances should be centrally tested and withdrawn from use, especially when they are carcinogenic, damage the reproductive system or other systems. we support the international protest action objections, which opposes the unnecessary burdens of reach. a project should be prepared that is aimed at genuine protection of human health and the environment, rather than being primarily business-related. moreover, how can one positively assess a draft directive, which has received over a thousand amendments, and previously two or three thousand, and which, in the course of a debate, is physically and intellectually impossible to control which of these amendments has been accepted by the voters?
mr. chairman, please! the debate on reach in parliament and beyond has shown that europe is not yet ready to adopt the strong version of the directive. we all want to live healthier, safer, more in harmony with nature, but we have to take financial realities and common sense into account. we also do not want to reject this better prospect for europeans, better than the existing law. fortunately, the rapporteur has a compromise version, which reconciles the interests of large, medium and small businesses, but also the interests of consumers and workers who care about the environment. i will vote for her for the sake of future generations, even if it is in the financial interest of my country. europe needs common rules, respected by ourselves and by our foreign partners.
mr. chairman, please! a methodological error was made in the draft regulation prepared by the commission. the title refers to chemical compounds, but article 3 does not, but it does contain a definition of a substance. this is a huge expansion, and therefore a blurring of the scope of the regulation to that part of matter that we know is not energy. secondly, there is no definition of the subject matter of the regulation, i.e. harmful chemicals and their chemical activity in relation to a living organism. thirdly, there is no definition of harm classes, for example for medical criteria, and the attempt to take a probabilistic view of this phenomenon by introducing tonnage groups would make sense if the risk were always the same, which is not the case. fourthly, a number of traditional products should be excluded from the scope of the regulation as their chemical activity is virtually zero under normal conditions. the reach regulation, which is badly needed, should therefore be limited to very strict definitions of the harmfulness classes of chemical compounds and establish a european chemicals agency, which, based on this interpretation, will deal with their detailed specification, certification and registration.
author. – the question jointly submitted by the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on budgets involves an invitation to the council to enter into serious negotiations on the operating framework for the agencies. i am sure that there is a well-recognised need here in the european union to rationalise and standardise procedures for setting up and operating the regulatory agencies in the interest of transparency and in order to avoid the duplication of tasks and unnecessary expenditure. i am referring in particular to the agencies involved in executive functions, partly with respect to their functions disintegrating the operational responsibility of the european commission. setting up agencies is now a fashionable response to various challenges in the european union. no wonder that there were five of them ten years ago and, by next year, there will be twenty-three. they are mushrooming and have ever greater budgetary implications because this is not only about operational expenditure; this is about expenditure of a more bureaucratic nature. now we have a very good basis for discussion in the commission communication, namely the draft interinstitutional agreement of february 2005. following the white paper on european governance, the european parliament adopted its position in the form of a resolution of january 2004. we, and in particular the budgets committee, understand the significance of applying the principle of budgetary rigour to the setting-up and operation of the agencies, and we fully support the proposal by the temporary committee to ring-fence expenditure on the agencies and to regulate both existing and new agencies. however, that is not in the commission communication. our oral question is in fact an expression of regret that the council is not entering into these negotiations. the major question is whether the council is ready and sees it as necessary and feasible to conclude the negotiations next year, that is, at the end of the current financial perspective.
mr. chairman, please! european regulatory agencies have been established since the 1990s in response to the development of eu policies, successive enlargements and the resulting new technical and scientific needs in the european union. according to the white paper on public governance, the european regulatory agencies contribute to the effective implementation and application of community rules and their functioning and control are of major political and institutional importance. nevertheless, the continued growth in the number of decentralised agencies - now 23 compared with 5 in 1995 - in the absence of a common procedural framework is of concern. the multiplicity of names, tasks, structures and control mechanisms of these agencies creates a situation that is not transparent to the citizen and is detrimental to legal certainty. the european court of auditors' annual report for 2004 reveals shortcomings in the agency's compliance with budgetary rules, staff recruitment and public procurement procedures. in view of the increasing burden that agencies place on the union budget, a thorough analysis of the financial impact of the activities of each newly established agency should be mandatory. in view of the smooth functioning of the union of 25, greater transparency and coherence are necessary in order to avoid the creation of agencies that are increasingly diverse and often duplicate their responsibilities and activities with the relevant services of the european commission. in this context, the draft agreement between the commission, parliament and the council to define common guidelines and a framework for the creation of new regulatory agencies deserves full support. it is also completely incomprehensible that the council has no will to negotiate this agreement, but today i see that it is slowly emerging.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement - 2005, enlargement ii package.
mr. chairman, please! enlargement is a risky but also a worthy challenge. the union has decided to take the step of enlargement by two countries: croatia and turkey. the first is less, while the second is subject to various reservations and will take longer to be considered before the citizens of the union, and not the commission or parliament, decide on accession. as regards croatia, the union has taken special steps, known as preaccession instruments, to help the expected changes in that country. in the working group we proposed the introduction of a separate instrument to support the building of human rights, but i regret that this proposal was rejected. why is it bad that there is no such instrument? well, because building a democratic society and state must have a foundation, and that foundation is often not a government or an elected parliament or president, that foundation is a nation of free and responsible citizens attached to their homeland. in the process of forming such a subject, it may even need more help than in economics or administration. the second point i would like to raise with the commission is the role of parliament in designing the strategy for preaccession aid, in monitoring its implementation and the development of internal social, political and religious processes. if the commission alone is to be the executor of the instruments and of all policies, then, with respect for its competence, i want to make it clear that parliament must be at least an equal partner in the decision-making process and, where necessary, an objective and reliable arbiter. in the union of fifteen, the commission's activity on the paths set by the council can and has been sufficient, with parliament playing a minor role. but with 25 and soon 27 players on the european stage, the expansion of this team will not be effective without a strong commitment from the elected representatives in this room. in conclusion, i want to make it clear that it is worthwhile and necessary for the commission and the council to take into account the suggestions, ideas, visions and criticisms that arise in parliament, bearing in mind the interests of the citizens of the countries that make up the union, whose final framework has not yet been defined, and that we must work together to develop this final model.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i should like to thank the honourable members for their overall support for a carefully managed accession process, which aims to enhance stability, security, freedom and democracy in europe. i also thank them for their feedback and pertinent questions. i should like to speak on two or three main issues. i will group several comments or questions together in order to facilitate a more concise response. mr brok, mr eurlings and others called for a balance to be struck between deepening and widening. i would certainly agree. it is the commission’s policy to take care of both deepening and widening; both are important political objectives of the european union. that is one reason why we have underlined the need to take into account the union’s own capacity to absorb new members, so that any future enlargement will not weaken but strengthen the union and will not make our decision-making weaker but stronger in the face of the major challenges that we are currently facing. looking at its recent history, the european union has achieved the best progress when deepening and widening, if not hand-in-hand, then at least in parallel. since 1989, since the tearing down of the berlin wall, we have deepened our political integration by creating the single market, the single currency and the schengen arrangement on the free movement of people, and have reinforced the common foreign and security policy. at the same time, the union has widened: our membership has more than doubled from 12 to 25. that parallel deepening and widening proves that it can be done and that it is also beneficial to the european union. in the near future, the continuation of constitutional reform is essential for the european union, in my view, in order to make our decision-making more effective and efficient, to enhance democracy and openness, and to reinforce our common security and defence policy. concerning its relation to enlargement, we had better keep the time perspective in mind: we need solutions on constitutional reform relatively soon, in the next few years; we have to use the pause for reflection effectively; we also have to draw conclusions from the discussion and reflection and start acting. we cannot wait for the conclusions of the negotiations with turkey, which might take 10 to 15 years. that is, by far, too long a time perspective for our own internal challenges. therefore, for the sake of europe, we have to be able to solve our problems related to the financial perspectives or to our institutional questions long before the western balkans or turkey join the european union. my second point concerns kosovo. i can fully agree with mr swoboda that the best service the european union can now provide so that the negotiations are successful and the settlement is sustainable is for us to be supportive but critical. the rule of law and the rights of minorities are at the heart of european values. those values are fundamental to any progress on the european perspective on kosovo or the western balkans. the commission’s role is to facilitate a balanced and sustainable settlement. we work closely with the international community and its status envoy, president ahtisaari, in order to make sure that whatever the precise outcome of the status talks, it will be compatible with the european perspective on kosovo and the western balkans. thirdly, mr wiersma, mrs pack, mr szent-iványi and mr lagendijk made references to regional cooperation in the western balkans and progress made by individual countries. i would very much agree with mr wiersma that our conditionality works. take bosnia-herzegovina, for instance: there, the policy formed is very much a consequence of the conditions we set for that country in order to conclude a stabilisation and association agreement. likewise for serbia and montenegro: the significant progress made in relation to the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has been the result of our conditions for starting negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement. we have to strike a careful balance between conditionality and rewarding progress as regards our candidate countries. next year, i hope we will see new moves for the western balkans. the austrian presidency is planning to hold a high-level event during its period in office in order to take stock and decide on the next moves as regards how to enhance political cooperation, economic development and citizens’ issues – such as visa facilitation – so that we can make the european perspective as concrete and tangible as possible for the citizens and the countries of the western balkans region. i can assure you that the commission will fully support the austrian presidency. i trust that the european parliament will do the same. i am very much looking forward to working together with you. i count on your support for a carefully managed accession process of the union.
i'm closing the debate. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report drawn up by christine de veyrac on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of information to air passengers on the identity of the operating carrier and on the transmission of safety information by member states (com ((2005) 0048 - c6-0046/2005 - 2005/0008 ((cod)) (a6-0310/2005).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur seem to be moving in the right direction - improving passenger safety, transparency of information on carriers, as well as standardisation for non-community carriers. the assumptions you have adopted will greatly improve the standards of service offered by airlines, and that is what is most important from the passenger's point of view. it remains to be hoped that the enhanced certification powers of the european aviation safety agency will not lead to abuses in this area and will indeed contribute to improving passenger safety standards. however, i trust the honourable member's proposals and i would like to express my support for the proposal she has put forward. i believe that adopting it in its current form will improve the quality of services and make it easier for passengers to choose the right carriers, by eliminating from the european market companies that do not meet safety requirements. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of this report in the interests of all air transport customers.
the commission's vice-president mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs de veyrac and your committee on transport and tourism once again for supporting and enriching the commission's proposal. the amendments proposed by your rapporteur enhance the commission's objectives and, on the one hand, restore air passengers' confidence in the safety of the aircraft they use and, on the other hand, ensure greater transparency vis-à-vis air passengers by communicating the identity of the air carrier. the commission, which has worked closely with parliament and the council to reach agreement at first reading, accepts, mr president, all the compromise amendments which have been obtained as a result of the very positive negotiations between the three institutions. the result of this work seems to us to be very balanced. it's about efficiency. i would mention the main measures which you all have mentioned: the establishment of a single community blacklist based on common criteria, the application of the prohibition measures throughout the community, the immediate entry into force of the blacklist regulation, and the subsequent rapid implementation of the part concerning passenger information and refunds, as mr jarzembowski has stressed. i also agree with what he said about passengers with reduced mobility, a system of compensation in the event of cancellation due to the fact that a blacklisted airline also covers flights to third countries, a solution for comitology, which should allow urgent action to be taken and avoid situations of non-decision, and finally a reference to the extension of missions adopted by the commission this afternoon in strasbourg, which thus incorporates the pilot qualifications and training mentioned by mrs ayala, mr leichtfried and, just now, mr savary. i would like to point out to the presidency that this increase in the powers of the european aviation safety agency does not in any way diminish the need for close cooperation between the agency and the civil aviation authorities of each member state. it is through this cooperation that we shall be able to give the european skies all the security we want. finally, i would like to emphasize the speed with which we have dealt with this matter without compromising its quality. this is further proof of the effectiveness of codecision and our institutions, because the political will to achieve is there on both sides. i am very pleased that many speakers have pointed this out. i would like to thank parliament very much, mr president, for its decisive contribution to this important matter which will increase the confidence of our citizens in the safety of air transport, and i would add, in conclusion, that the whole of this text will make it possible to strengthen the powers of the european aviation safety agency, powers which it exercises in cooperation with the civil aviation authorities of each of the member states. and finally, the launch, next thursday, of a very interesting technological project, which we call "caesar" and which will bring much greater security also in air traffic management. i think we have all the elements that will enable us to make european skies one of the safest skies in the world. i am very grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the rapporteur. i think we have done a very useful job here and, at this somewhat emotional moment, i think you all have a thought for all those who, during the summer, were the victims of these disasters. we started it, but the important thing is to finish it, and we've done it because of all of you.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i shall be very brief and respond to just a couple of issues. i have been very impressed with the contributions and the commitment and passion with which they have been expressed tonight. i wish to congratulate mrs de veyrac, the members of the european parliament and the committee on transport and tourism for their hard work and cooperation. mr jarzembowski asked whether the council would now in turn accept the text. if parliament proposes a consolidated text in its entirety, then the presidency of the council will bring it to the ministers’ attention at the earliest possible opportunity and the presidency will recommend it to the council. another issue mentioned was the european aviation safety agency. the council will, of course, consider the commission’s proposals concerning that agency. this has been an impressive debate with many impressive contributions. the passion for this subject and the issue of safety and information for passengers have come over loud and clear this evening. thank you for the opportunity to contribute to that debate. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on - the report by rebecc harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation implementing protocol no 9 to the act concerning the conditions of accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia to the european union, on the bohunice v1 nuclear power plant in slovakia (com (2004) 0642 - c6-0205/2004 - 2004/0221cns) (a6-0282/2005) and - the report by rebecc harms, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the use of financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants (2005/2727 (a27/06ini))
member of the commission. mr president, i will start by thanking the rapporteur for her very correct and deep analysis of the challenges concerning decommissioning. as regards the bohunice issue, firstly the decision to close the reactors was based on safety reasons. in the european union, wenra –the western european nuclear regulators’ association – decides on the safety requirements in particular member states. it proposed that those types of reactors were not upgradable, not because they came from the former soviet union, but because of their technical characteristics. that was why the closure of those reactors was requested during the negotiations. that information was known early on, and so the negotiations took into account all the possible consequences. the decision was not taken in the last package: in many cases, including cases in the slovak republic, governments made early commitments to close particular reactors, for example those in bohunice. that is why i reject the argument that political pressure was exerted: the decision was based on the analyses made by those responsible for nuclear safety in the european union. that is a fact. negotiations have been conducted accordingly, and all possible implications have been taken into account, not just decommissioning but other issues too. that is also why we have different protocols for lithuania and slovakia. i realise that decommissioning is a huge task, but i can clearly explain the basis for the commission’s proposal: it was based on the results of the accession negotiations. any other issue should be based on other considerations, but at this stage we are unable to move on to other considerations. my services are in close contact with the slovak authorities to discuss the challenge. however, this is clearly a commitment that was approved by the european union citizens and the slovak citizens in the accession negotiations and it must be honoured, not only from the eu side but also from the slovak side. it is, therefore, a challenge that we should face together. at the same time, there is a question mark over whether decommissioning funds should be used at a time when all the reactors have been operational and are still operational: if you do not have the decommissioning fund, the price is cheaper. but then, at the end of the day, who is paying? taxpayers? other citizens? this really is a global challenge. the debate today, at this late hour, is very relevant. the commission has already tried to make legislative proposals on the decommissioning funds because they are essential for competitiveness inside the european union and for clarifying who will pay for them. i agree entirely that the polluter should pay. that element should be included in the price. the commission will prepare a recommendation and will insist on the sufficient and transparent use of decommissioning funds that should be available when required. that is the basic truth that we should confront when discussing nuclear energy. competition issues definitely will not be excluded from the debate, because it is very important to know what support schemes we are providing for other parts of our energy mix. that is a very relevant issue. i thank you very much for the debate tonight. i am really pleased it was so detailed. we should continue this debate when we discuss energy issues. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
mr. chairman, please! since the beginning of the military campaign against saddam hussein's regime in iraq, more than 2,000 american soldiers have been killed and 15,000 wounded. the british iraq body count research group estimates the iraqi death toll at over 30,000 based on news reports and news agencies. other estimates put the death toll at 100,000. the ratification of the constitution is a major achievement in the process of rebuilding iraq. parliamentary elections are held on 15 december, with 225 political groups and coalitions registered. by december 31st, the parliament will elect a new government. the democratically elected parliament, in which the sunnis will have their representation, will be able to amend the constitution for the next six months. the constitutional referendum in iraq is a sign of hope for the emergence of a middle east and central asian islamic-liberal democracy, which is referred to as muslim democracy. the period of the interim government in iraq is coming to an end and, in the face of continuing terrorist attacks and the risk of civil war, democratic politics is being formed.
mr. chairman, please! it is difficult to accept a report that is so unconstructive in its suggestions for concrete solutions to climate change, and without a financial analysis. nor are the millennium development goals or the kyoto protocol, which commit governments and companies to implement policies and programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to introduce emissions trading schemes and to introduce energy-saving legislation, enough. the responsibility for the destruction lies especially with the industrialized nations, whose liberal lifestyles and consumerism are producing such unimaginable disasters for the health and survival of the earth. therefore, in addition to the above measures, the change in the mentality and personal development of each person should be equally important, as well defined by the pursuit of a civilization of satiety, with the cessation of the drive to possess at any cost and the unrestrained accumulation of goods.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament will once again present its position on climate change at the un in late november and early december. before it is discussed at international level, it is important that it best reflects the interests of all the member states of the union, including the role of nuclear energy, as mrs grossetête and mr hökmark have rightly said. given that greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise in many member states, full implementation of the un convention and the kyoto protocol will require greater participation of individual citizens in the overall effort to reduce emissions and develop a more sustainable lifestyle. in this context, an important aspect in the fight to reduce co2 emissions is the so-called integrated approach involving politicians, industry and society. an integrated approach is a more efficient and less costly way of reducing co2 emissions. it assumes that the responsibility for reduction lies with both car manufacturers, fuel, and vehicle users. the state of the road infrastructure and traffic management systems is also important. this is in line with the european climate change programme ii announced in october 2005. while moving beyond a fossil-fuel economy is a historic opportunity for entrepreneurship, it is important to remember that many countries - particularly developing countries - have renewable energy resources but do not currently have the technologies to exploit them. energy subsidies are also a major issue in the negotiations on reducing greenhouse gases. there are already many ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. energy-efficient and low-emission technologies are an effective means of combating environmental pollution, but they should not be confused with the rapporteur's proposal to reduce subsidies for fossil fuels as a sine qua non for the introduction of modern environmental protection solutions.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, this has been an interesting and stimulating debate, marked by almost total welcome – quite correctly – for mr wijkman’s report and for its contents, and by very real agreement on the nature and scale of the challenge. it has also been marked by a strong emphasis from many speakers on renewable resources, with various examples of this being cited, and also by strong differences of opinion over nuclear power. i would say to the last speaker, mrs harms, that if the only aspect of the climate change debate she heard in the uk was that of nuclear power, then she must have moved in very restricted circles, because there is a great deal being discussed in the uk, which has not actually made a fresh commitment to nuclear power, despite a commitment to discussing it. in fact, energy efficiency is top of the uk’s list of policies for tackling climate change, just as she would wish. there has been much emphasis on what are usually known in the jargon as ‘co-benefits’. some speakers emphasised the damage caused by air pollution by the same gases that are contributing to climate change, while others emphasised that, as we tackle climate change, we will derive other potential health benefits from the reduction in the use of those gases. mrs gutiérrez-cortines asked about the role of agriculture. as she may know, in countries such as new zealand, livestock are the source of almost all greenhouse gas emissions, making this a particularly difficult problem to solve. there is therefore no doubt that agriculture can, in certain circumstances, be part of the problem. however, as a number of speakers mentioned with regard to biomass and biofuels, it also could also be part of the solution. that is an issue that will come under increasing scrutiny. i am sorry mr hegyi is opposed to carbon capture and storage. the sad and blunt fact is that countries like india and china, which need to grow and develop in order to tackle poverty – and this was another issue referred to, again quite correctly, in the debate – have huge coal reserves and will use them, because they feel they have no choice. it is surely better for us to try to find ways of helping them to do that sustainably, through technologies like carbon capture and storage, rather than simply telling them not to use those power sources, which i fear would be fruitless. all the references made to the most vulnerable states and to the most vulnerable within other countries heighten the need for the actions the eu must take on adaptation, and support for adaptation, to impacts that we cannot avoid. strong emphasis has been placed on the role of the many other countries involved and on the need for a global dialogue – with which the council wholeheartedly agrees – and there is clear agreement both that the eu should continue to take the lead internationally and that we should continue to place strong emphasis on delivering on our own programmes. mrs doyle and mr hökmark both suggested that the eu is unlikely to meet its kyoto targets. that is not my understanding of the latest position as assessed by the commission. however, that is a report that we will be publishing as we approach montreal, and it certainly remains the case that we must continue to maintain and indeed step up our own activity. that brings me to the comments by both mrs lucas and mr smith, who quite rightly praised the ambition of the wijkman report in setting a target of a 60% reduction in emissions by 2050, without apparently being aware that this is the target the uk government set in its own energy white paper in 2003. perhaps, though, this should come as no a surprise, since mrs lucas had nothing good to say about the uk’s approach. however, i must put it firmly on the record for her and on behalf of this council that it is a waste of everybody’s time to demand that the eu deliver a formal mandate and a formal timetable in montreal. this body above all should recognise that the world of imperialism is at an end. we cannot just march into montreal and dictate to the rest of the world how they should conduct themselves and go about their business, not least when we are talking to some of the poorest and most vulnerable countries in the world whose priority, quite rightly, is development and feeding their populations. we will not act in this manner. if we are able to kindle a dialogue and spark a process in montreal, it will be a real and substantial achievement, just as it was a real and substantial achievement to elicit the language and secure the programme of action agreed at gleneagles. we all agree that we ought to be moving faster, but let us at least recognise the fact that we are making some progress. (applause)
member of the commission. i should like to thank everyone who has participated in this rich and important debate. the need to act urgently to tackle climate change was underlined by mr wijkman and others. i believe that the action taken and the series of new initiatives put forward by the commission since the adoption of its communication in february clearly demonstrate its determination to act in this area. the european union's first priority in montreal is to build broad international support for further action and obtain agreement on starting a formal process to discuss the shape of a future multilateral climate change regime. once the discussions get going, the european union will need to consider the right moment for putting forward its views on targets under such a future regime. targets have proven to be a very useful tool in environmental policy making. they provide our guidance to decision-makers in society. they are particularly useful for industry and the private sector when they have to take long-term investment decisions. targets will therefore remain a core element of any future climate change architecture. we need targets. as you will be aware, the european council of last march set down a pathway target of 15% to 30% of emissions reductions by 2020. however, the commission believes that the time has not yet come to set concrete targets for developed countries in montreal in december. that would only be done when we have more clarity on the progress of the negotiations on the post-2012 period. mr seeber has underlined that any future climate change regime will have to build on broad participation on all major emitters and that is of key importance if our cooperation is to be truly efficient. the commission and member states are working hard to promote deeper dialogue with the united states and developing countries. we have engaged in policy dialogue with the united states administration within the united nations framework agreement on climate change and within other fora and meetings, such as the joint climate change science and technology workshop. that covers concrete topics such as renewable energy, energy efficiency and carbon sequestration. the united states claims that is has a different approach to fighting climate change, based mainly on the research and development of new technologies. the difference between their approach and our approach is that they have seen an approximate 15% increase in carbon dioxide emissions while the european union of 25 has seen a considerable reduction compared with 1990 levels, and the 15 member countries under the kyoto regime obligations are 1.7% under the 1990 level. that is not enough, but we are sure that, by the end of our commitment period, we will be in compliance with our kyoto target. this is the difference between the two approaches. as regards developing countries, the european union has an open mind on how they should participate in future multilateral climate cooperation. it is clear that we cannot expect the same mandatory requirements as we do from developed countries. any commitment they take on will be based on the principle of common, but differentiated, responsibilities. china and other developing countries have contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon by a much smaller percentage than the developed countries, and per capita emissions in china are currently less than one tenth of the levels in the developed world, so we should follow that example. where capita income is much lower and development needs greater we have to follow what the united nations convention wisely prescribes as a common but differentiated policy. mr verges mentioned that we should take particular care of developing countries and their increasing needs arising from global warming. we really should prepare for that impact. the commission is already providing funding and welcomes canada's intention to prepare a five-year work programme on adaptation at the conference in montreal. in addition, the european union is the major contributor to the 2001 bonn political declaration which pledges usd 410 million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year. at the october environment council, ministers committed themselves to communicating at montreal the progress being made towards delivery on this target. also, to support developing countries, we have to make sure that the clean development mechanisms actually work. the key issue is the efficiency of the executive board in bonn, and the european union is already providing funding, but more support is clearly necessary. the european union is still the main contributor of funds to the executive board. there have been certain concerns about bilateral cooperation outside the united nations context, and especially in the asia-pacific partnership. let me stress that this can in no way be viewed as an alternative to the united nations process. however, this partnership can support our efforts under the climate change convention and the kyoto protocol through closer bilateral cooperation that includes both a stronger political dialogue and a focus on technology. this is also how one should see the european union-china and european union-india partnerships. this translates into very concrete actions: we have recently held two workshops in india and china on the clean development mechanism and market-based mechanisms. in relation to china, we also see an important focus on the development and demonstration of near-zero emissions power generation, and i agree with mrs beckett that carbon capture and storage is one of the means of tackling the problem of climate change. it is not a cure-all, but it is one of the many means that we can use. these partnerships will have the positive and immediate effect of supporting the discussions on a multilateral climate change regime post-2012. mr blokland asked about the efficiency of the european union's current measures. if we implement all the measures in full, this will lead to a 4% reduction compared with 1990, which obviously is not sufficient to meet the target of -8% that we have set for ourselves. that is why we included additional measures in the climate change programme that we launched a month ago. this implies that we should make greater emission cuts, allowing us to reach the kyoto target and make further progress for the period after 2012. it is important to know that, for the european union of 25, the result with the existing measures will be -7%. mrs doyle, mrs grossetête and others asked about emissions from cars. i fully agree that this is a vital issue and that is why, in 2006, the commission will review the agreement with the car industry in order to assess the possibility of reaching the community objective of 120 g/km by a certain point, having made sure, of course, that we reach the target, voluntarily agreed with the car industry in europe, japan and korea, of 140 mg. mrs ek referred to the inclusion of transport in european union emissions trading. the commission has already made a proposal with regard to aviation, as you know. the commission will assess this for the other transport sectors as part of the 2006 review. on renewable energy, the commission will put forward, in the weeks to come, a new report assessing a target for renewable energy by 2020. regarding nuclear energy and the remarks made by mr hökmark, some member states expect nuclear energy to be a part of their future energy. however, we have to ensure that we have a broad range of energy sources that are low in carbon. nuclear power will not be able to meet the increased energy demands and we should also be aware that nuclear power faces problems concerning nuclear waste and public opinion. with regard to what mrs gutiérrez-cortines said about agriculture, the commission agrees that synergies can be found between climate change and agriculture. we had an extremely interesting meeting in london, organised by mrs beckett and the uk presidency, on climate change and agriculture and very important conclusions were reached there. the commission will be putting forward a plan in support of biofuels. finally, winning the battle against climate change requires determined action, starting now. it requires action, as mr smith said, from all actors and sectors of society. we should not underestimate the size of the challenge. winning the battle against climate change will take time, of which we have precious little, and efforts that some will argue we cannot afford. with your continued support, we are determined to reassert the european union's leadership in this key challenge for mankind. thank you very much.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
in writing. the shift of the european union's borders to the east and north, which took place on 1 may 2004, brings with it many new challenges, and therefore actions and projects such as the northern dimension of the european union are important in this context. multilateral regional cooperation between the eu countries of the baltic sea region aims to ensure conditions conducive to social and economic development and to ensure political stability in the region. for the first time, the european union has its own internal seas. i would like to stress the particular political importance of this initiative. the northern dimension is the european union's link to the east, with important partners such as russia and belarus, and therefore can play a significant role in implementing a special project of close and multi-dimensional eu-russia cooperation. the northern dimension will have a positive impact on economic cooperation, infrastructure development and deepening cooperation in the fields of home affairs and justice should increase security in cross-border areas. attention should also be paid to the positive ecological aspect of the northern dimension as a valuable and sensitive ecosystem, and therefore in this context cooperation in environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable development. the key issue to be resolved is the highly controversial baltic (northern european) gas pipeline project. the decision to build the plant was taken without any consultation with the governments of the baltic sea countries and it has seriously undermined the energy security of many countries. we must not allow discrimination and actions that are contrary to the interests of weaker states. otherwise, the northern dimension will remain a fiction and a project that doesn't fit into reality. the baltic gas pipeline project also poses a major threat to the baltic sea environment.
mr. chairman, please! the british are known for their steel nerves, their distance, their calmness, their sense of humor, and their great restraint in expressing their emotions. i therefore took it very much by surprise when the minister, lord bach, said yesterday that if the reach regulation was not adopted this year, he would consider it a failure for the british presidency and for himself. i would like to ask you today, mr. minister, will you say the same thing to me? do you also consider the lack of a budgetary perspective for 2007-2013 adopted this year to be a personal failure on your part and that of prime minister blair? tony blair gave a great speech in brussels in june. the analysis of the european crisis is worth reading. unfortunately, the months that follow, the speeches of the ministers, are only a worse copy of the prime minister of england. i have the impression that you british gentlemen have lost the will to fight for the implementation of your vision of the european union. you've decided to slip through the cracks of the six months of the presidency. unfortunately, you also inherited a certain gene of european weakness and paralysis. although i must say that minister straw, overwhelmed by the questions and speeches in this room, has finally begun to speak in a normal voice, as politicians should, about business. europe can be built by effective action, by decisions that will forever be written in the great scars of our continent's history. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. the most important thing today is the budgetary perspective. it is estimated that if this perspective is not adopted, the new member states will receive eur 10 billion in 2007 for their development. if we were to take a long-term view, this would be about 22 billion plus 3.5 billion for romania and bulgaria. these countries will therefore lose around 60% of their available resources. i ask that you take the budget perspective seriously and start working towards its effective adoption in december.
mr. chairman, please! war is often fought at night, and we in the european parliament are fighting for peace at night, signum tempori sign of the times. two years ago, military spending was $956 billion, and last year, it was over a trillion dollars. we're back to the record-breaking levels of spending during the cold war. military spending is increasing by about 10 to 11 percent a year, and it's a real arms spiral. we should ask ourselves whether the saying, "if you want peace, prepare for war", is a good answer to the problems of the 21st century. is it not true that, as a vatican representative told the 59th general assembly of the united nations, "the growing reliance on small arms and light weapons is not only not keeping us safe, but is increasingly depriving us of it"? the un initiative to build a culture of peace and the civilization of love promoted by pope john paul ii should be supported. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr kristovskis, on his sensible report, which is the fruit of a compromise. the cold war-era proliferation risk of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons is particularly relevant. it is also important to remember the 38-year-old ban on nuclear weapons testing in space. in conclusion, it is good that we emphasize that even the justified use of military force must be in accordance with the charter of the united nations and preceded by the use of all political and diplomatic means. the european parliament does not work miracles, but today it can increase the chances of peace a little.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mrs. martens has prepared a report that she has put a lot of work into. and i'm sure that this report is very useful in many ways. but it is impossible not to notice that it does not directly address some of the immediate issues, which are very basic for africa and for other very poor countries. we're not going to help these countries just through funds, we're not going to help them just through organizations. this is where the fundamental objectives have to be identified. these goals are, first of all, education, education and again education, hygiene, health and support for the local economy, the local economy, i emphasize, the local economy that will serve the people on the ground. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, which is a very good one, but unfortunately it also contains elements which we see very often here - ideologizing which is completely unnecessary on the subject we are talking about at the moment: aid to the third world. it is completely unnecessary to introduce again these ideological elements about reproductive health, about reproductive rights; it is completely unnecessary! we really can't put all these different -- i have to say this -- feminist, ideological additions everywhere. that's completely unnecessary in this case. i would therefore ask you to support the amendments tabled by mr konrad szymanski. these are amendments that on the one hand, they point to the fundamental goals, and so what i've been talking about -- nutrition, clean water, sanitation, vaccination, maternal and child health -- those are the two amendments, the first and the third. the second and fourth amendments are about eliminating reproductive rights for primary health care. really, let's not ideologise every debate in this house.
mr. chairman, please! africa is a constant source of guilt for parts of europe, as mr gahler has just mentioned, and it is certainly a political, economic and social challenge for europe as a whole. we are doing our part the union has increased its aid to africa by 0.14% of gdp, with half of this allocated to the countries of the saharan region. there are two extremes to be avoided in doing things for africa. one is to try to replace politics with charity, because that means making africa a bottomless bag, that means giving africa almost everything, including its own future. the other extreme, the opposite extreme, is to leave africa to itself. we welcome the growing role of the african union. i hope - and i emphasise this strongly - that the growing importance of this institution will be accompanied by the democratisation of institutions such as the world bank, the international monetary fund and the world trade organisation, for example, in the direction of ensuring greater representation of developing countries. if i had to choose a priority for our aid to africa, it would be to help the children, who make up 50 percent of the population.
member of the commission. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this year europe has shown its ambition. she's proven her ability to be a force in the world. it has assumed, better than others, its responsibility towards the developing countries. as you know, in may the european union made strong commitments to increase the effectiveness of aid and the coherence of its development policies. in june, the european union decided to double development aid between 2004 and 2010 to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income by 2015. i would remind you that this commitment means an increase of eur 20 billion per year by 2010 and eur 46 billion per year by 2015. in september, the european union was able to make the un world summit a milestone, a highlight in the search for a more balanced multilateralism and a fairer world order, thanks to intensive preparatory work. i think it is safe to say that without the european union, it is to be feared that this summit would have ended in a desperate failure. the european union has made a difference here too. but there is still a lot of room for improvement. if europe wants to be more important, we need to do more and make a qualitative leap in the way we work together. that is why we proposed in july to achieve a european consensus on development, a proposal which i have put forward and discussed in this house on several occasions. the interinstitutional debate which followed the adoption of this document by the commission shows the diversity and richness of opinions on the role of the european union in the world. it's also an enlightening debate, one that i'm passionate about. however, i must say that i am troubled by some of the arguments put forward by some of the main players. some people give the impression that there is a difference between a community development policy and the policies of the member states, between those who would like to centralize development policy at european level and those who believe exclusively in bilateral cooperation. the debate, ladies and gentlemen, is taking place in other terms. is it acceptable that today europe, whose diplomatic force as a whole represents more than 20 000 diplomats, that is to say three times as many as the united states, often takes second place when it comes to a political plan? is it acceptable that today europe, which is responsible for almost 60% of development aid, systematically spreads its aid through 26 different programming documents and implements this aid through 26 different procedures? i think not. it's not acceptable. europe's influence and effectiveness must be commensurate with its means, and that is precisely why i have proposed to the member states and to the european parliament a common foundation for the whole of the european union, a foundation which brings together its values, its objectives, its principles and its scope of action, and which applies to the whole of the european union. this foundation, the european consensus, would be an indispensable step towards more coordinated, complementary and resolute action by the european union. what's this about? we, parliament, the council and the commission, share the same values which are the founding values of the union. we share a common goal: to eradicate poverty wherever it exists. we share an international agenda: the millennium development goals and the millennium declaration. we share principles of partnership: shared responsibility between industrialized and developing countries, ownership of poverty reduction strategies by partner countries, participation of civil society and non-state actors. we share the principles of aid effectiveness: concentration so as not to fragment efforts, policy coherence, coordination and division of labour between donors, harmonisation of our procedures, alignment with the strategies of partner countries. the motion for a resolution which mr wijkman is presenting today is remarkable. it highlights the main positive elements of the commission's communication and it contributes constructively to improving consensus, which has helped us a lot in our tripartite discussions, and i thank it for that. i congratulate him and your parliament on this contribution of exceptional quality. i should like to sum up briefly the points of the resolution which i support wholeheartedly, the points which are the basis of our consensus. firstly, a clear reference to the declaration on development policy in the regulation which will govern the financial instrument for development cooperation. this response will no doubt strengthen the very status of the declaration. secondly, the analysis of poverty as a multidimensional phenomenon, which requires a range of responses and a balance between the socioeconomic and environmental pillars of sustainable development. thirdly, the importance of equality between men and women. i should like to inform you that the commission has proposed that parliament's text be included among the guiding principles of the declaration. fourth, the approach is rights-based. i believe that the commission's proposal to include human rights and good governance as complementary objectives to poverty reduction is a perfect response to parliament's request. fifthly, all the priorities mentioned in the resolution are covered by the community's areas of action: the prevention and treatment of aids and other diseases, reproductive health, gender equality, adaptation to climate change, trade for development, conflict prevention, good governance, the fight against corruption, the promotion of decent work, including the fight against child labour. and finally, we welcome the fact that parliament is open to moving towards budget support, because it allows countries to be efficient and develop their capacities. in this way we can support improved public financial management and support the institutions, including national parliaments. these institutions must play their full role and act as guardians of budgets. at the same time, i am convinced that it is a powerful means of initiating and nurturing political dialogue with our partners. i therefore thank parliament for making a significant contribution to more effective action for development through this resolution, which lays the foundation for our good cooperation in the future.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the joint declaration of the council, the european parliament and the commission on the european union's development policy, the 'european consensus', is a very important document. why would you do that? i think it's mostly because of the purpose it serves. the tripartite declaration on a common vision for european union development cooperation is intended to contribute to greater coherence, coordination, complementarity, quality and efficiency. it can be said that without achieving these goals, our vision of development cooperation cannot be productive. in 40 years of development aid to africa, the situation on that continent has gotten worse, not better. we must do something to change this, and this report and draft declaration is an attempt to do just that. our resolution addresses a number of important issues. i would like to mention just a few of them, for example: the emphasis on the role of national parliaments in implementing development cooperation, not only in the countries that are recipients of aid, but also in some countries of the european union. the acp-eu joint assembly will next week adopt its report on the role of parliaments in implementing the cotonou agreement. i would be very happy if my home parliament - the polish sejm - paid more attention to development issues, especially since allocating 0.7% of national income to development aid in the future will be difficult without the involvement and understanding of national parliaments. it is also very important in the resolution that it stresses the crucial importance of education. without access to education, without gender equality in education -- although not just in access to education, of course -- development simply will not be possible. another value of this report is that it highlights the need for improved quality and better coordination between the commission and the member states. i just wanted to thank the reporter for a great report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when we talk about helping backward societies, underdeveloped societies, we have to make a very clear distinction between asian societies, which we see emerging from poverty at a rapid pace, and first of all, black african societies, which for mental reasons, for lack of education, are unable to emerge on their own from extreme poverty and poor health -- first of all, hiv -- and this is where we have to put a special emphasis. mr. wijkman's report is good. unfortunately, once again in this house, i have a reservation: why is the concept of reproductive health and rights being introduced? it's the code word for abortion. we know that the house is divided on this issue. we witnessed an event yesterday related to the exhibition that took place here in this building. why the ideologizing? it is the continuing introduction of the same subject which divides this house. let's leave that for a separate discussion and not bring it up every time. i therefore ask for the support of amendments nos 3 and 4 by mr szymański, who on the one hand calls for the abolition of reproductive rights and on the other points to basic objectives such as good nutrition, clean water, improved sanitation and education. we have heard commissioner michel complain here that there is no common foreign policy in this area in the european union. how can there be a common policy when we are witnessing it being broken at every turn? russia is conducting its policy with france and germany over the heads of the poles; at least that's what the previous governments are doing. i hope that with the current government in germany, that will change. i hope that when president chirac stops being president that situation will change too. solidarity in our affairs with our immediate neighbours will be the measure of the european union's success also on a global scale.
mr president, i would just like to ask mr michel if he can confirm that this question excludes abortion?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i think this debate on kashmir should give us a lot of satisfaction, even though it is a sad case of the tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people in the region. but it should give us satisfaction, because i think it's about what the european union should be doing and can do successfully, and can do in emergencies. this is a mission that is not controversial and that is achievable with the methods, resources and logistics that we have. i therefore welcome with great satisfaction everything that has been said here, including what the honourable member has presented to us, who has been in kashmir herself. the fact that this debate is taking place only a few weeks after the tragedy is an added satisfaction for us. i think that the people who have been affected by this disaster deserve our immediate help; they certainly deserve it much more than those regions and those countries (especially one of them) which have recently been the victims of riots caused by their own policies and which, as we have heard, the union also wants to follow up with aid. the poor people of kashmir deserve much more help than the rich countries who are causing their own problems.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on october 8, the kashmir region, which borders pakistan and india, was struck by a devastating earthquake. 88,000 people died, and more than 245 million were affected. the material damage is unimaginable, and even today it is difficult to estimate it accurately. despite a un appeal for $500 million in immediate financial assistance, more than a month after the disaster, only 20 percent of the funds had been received. although india and pakistan, for whom the kashmir region has been a source of conflict for years, began a constructive dialogue last year to end the conflict and, moreover, in the face of the natural disaster, both countries decided to establish special points on the line of control to allow humanitarian aid to be delivered to those affected in kashmir, these are now open only to the movement of goods and not people, which makes the distribution of aid much more difficult. worse, the mountainous terrain, the destroyed infrastructure, and the lack of access roads delay its arrival. as the european parliament, we have a moral duty to make a clear appeal to pakistan and india to allow the flow of citizens from both countries, not just humanitarian aid, so that the international community's aid can reach those most in need.
mr. chairman, please! kashmir is a region divided into three countries, india, pakistan and china, which is forgotten, but the earthquake knows no boundaries. it touched and connected in misery both india and pakistan. the measure of tragedy is that a whole generation died in the disaster. most of the victims are children and adolescents. hardly any schools survived. it is the union's moral and political duty to provide charitable aid and to help rebuild the region in the future. the $20 million from the world bank and just under 4 million euros from the european union are emergency aid for the victims of the disaster. and we have to think about the future, because this tragedy will be felt for decades to come. our debate should be a guideline for the commission and the council on this matter, and i would like to say one thing in conclusion: the financial assistance of the union for the victims of the kashmir tragedy is, as i have calculated, 16 times less than what france is to receive as a result of the riots in that country. i would say that this is indeed a paradoxical situation.
mr. chairman, please! there are a few things that are mixed up in this resolution. first, the death penalty in the philippines - which we are calling for to be abolished - is being mixed up with the trial of this young man accused of a terrible crime. those are two separate cases. those who say that this was an unfair trial are making a very serious charge that all the courts in the philippines were wrong and that the president of the philippines does not want to grant the right to pardon. that's a whole other issue. and then there's the third thing: what do we want? we should, in my opinion, demand a fair trial first, because if a trial was unfair, it would be a crime. if the trial was fair, then we can claim a right of clemency from the death penalty, but not a total release from responsibility for the heinous crimes, assuming they had taken place. let us therefore claim the law of mercy, but not demand total release from punishment until a just trial has been held.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the great regimes in asia is the subject of today's debate on human rights violations. burma - now the union of myanmar - is known for its picturesque buddhist temples and palaces of gold and luxury, but it is also a place of tragedy for thousands of burmese. the human rights of the people of the country are being brutally violated, and thousands of people are being imprisoned, persecuted and sentenced for opposition activities, and forced to work. there, children as young as 11 are forced into military service, and most live on less than a dollar a day, without medical care, making the situation worse for many who are infected with hiv. myanmar was ranked 190th out of 191 countries in terms of access to healthcare. there is no internet access in burma. until recently, satellite dishes were banned, and foreign press can be received in a few hotels that are off-limits to residents. after coups in 1962 and 1988, all state organs were dissolved and the council for the restoration of order took over, ironically leading to the creation of one of the bloodiest regimes in the world. the legally elected parliament did not take office until 1990. the junta general does not respond to the interventions of international organizations, both the un and those dealing with the protection of human rights or labor organizations. the existence of regimes and totalitarianism brings with it many unresolved issues: not only the exercise of power by psychopathic individuals who exploit the weak, but also the difficulty in providing any help, because any embargo hits the oppressed and already extremely poor population the most, while the economic aid provided is mostly used by the regime. in burma, the military junta uses 40% of its revenue to maintain and strengthen an already large army, even though the country is not at war with anyone. knowing this, foreign corporations should not invest in this country, supporting the military in an objective and material way. in each case of an existing dictatorship, the best way to help, negotiate and work with the opposition, both domestic and foreign, is to seek out the opposition that is most aware of the scale of the problem and the possibilities for intervention to maximize support. we therefore call for the release of aung san suu kyi and other opposition leaders, the re-establishment of the national league for democracy and humanitarian aid, thus preventing the destruction of the burmese people and ethnic minorities and religious persecution.
mr president, the process of world trade liberalisation is approaching the crucial phase. we in this house are treated more as observers than actors, but we care for the welfare of our citizens as well as for poor people elsewhere. although the predominant idea guiding this process is that of helping the least developed countries of the world, it is also our responsibility to consider the status and development of poorer and weaker new member states of the eu. the case of sugar has provided an example of an unjust trade agreement that attributes more export freedom to french and german sugar producers than to polish farmers. the latter clearly cannot be happy about that. full liberalisation would, at least under current socio-economic conditions, mainly benefit strong companies and leading groups rather than weaker ones. therefore, balanced decisions on making the market a free stage are needed, with a distinction being drawn between the least developed countries, developing countries or emerging economies, and the developed countries. my other point relates to prospective new members. the wto must carefully scrutinise the criteria being applied. otherwise, international trade is liable to be shaken by events such as the current issue of russian import barriers on agricultural products from poland. the belief that the free market is a magic wand that can equalise living standards across the globe needs to be tempered with an awareness of the specific economic and social conditions and political barriers that exist in many countries. i would like to see the free market making the people richer, and i stress ‘the people’, not trade and manufacturing consortia.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the globalization of life in many dimensions that is taking place in the world is an irreversible process that we fear, but with which we also have great hope. i believe that the world trade organization will be an effective instrument in its necessary control. i wish you success in hong kong, commissioner, but as you said, not at any price. if we are to sacrifice european agriculture, which is the most vulnerable in the new member states, then at least let it be to the benefit of the developing countries. if i have to sacrifice polish agriculture and polish sugar, it's not in the interests of rich countries.
madam president! vietnam, laos and cambodia have made tremendous economic progress in the last ten years. we welcome this, but it is a pity that these reforms are not yet accompanied by adequate reforms in the fields of politics and civil rights, as the draft resolution says. it's good to have more economic freedom. it's a shame that there's so little freedom of speech, political freedom and religious freedom. religious persecution in vietnam is particularly troubling. they apply to buddhists and christians. their leaders are in re-education camps. earlier this month, 84 monks from the united buddhist church, which has been banned for 24 years, were arrested and their property was confiscated. for many years, a catholic priest, pham minh tri, has been imprisoned. a new law on faith and religion was introduced last year. but it did not bring real religious freedom, any more than the buddhists were given back their destroyed schools and universities. we also know about prisoners of conscience, if i may say so, in laos and cambodia. in conclusion, may the greater economic freedom in this region, which is admirable and praiseworthy (i do not mention the violations of human rights, including the right to freedom of religion), and i would say more - may (as my honourable predecessors have also said) human rights, including the right to practice one's religion, be the basis for building our mutual relations between the european union and vietnam, laos and cambodia.
mr. chairman, please! the events of the past few weeks in france have been unprecedented. some talk of revolution, others of civil war, while the european parliament continues to keep silent, pretending as if nothing is happening. there are rumors that the cause of the riots is unemployment - is it possible that this could be a factor in such a coordinated outbreak? of the 2,000 detained, about 100 are foreigners, the rest are mainly immigrants with french passports. i do not want to say that the main problem is the non-european ethnic population; it is hardly surprising that someone wants to stay with the civilization of their ancestors, europe has apparently lost its attraction. the problem is with us, and the problem is demography. the trend is that it is as if history has ended, that we live in a peaceful world, which can be governed by an increasing number of directives, and we forget that the political and economic situation is not decided by a single sheet of paper. let's not kid ourselves, what's happening today is not just the result of an economic collapse. we are witnessing the vulgarization of the mind and the effect of nations embarking on a path of numerical reduction. if this continues, europeans will become a minority on their own continent.
mr. chairman, please! i am outraged to report that once again in the european parliament, at its seat in strasbourg, polish national flags have been stolen from the desks where members sit. since this is not the first incident of this kind, i want to protest strongly and say that this situation only strengthens our conviction that as polish mps we did the right thing by emphasizing our national identity. we believe that in the current situation, such incidents should not have occurred. i guarantee you, mr president, that these flags will return to their place and will remain there as long as the members of the league of polish families are representatives, are members and sit on the benches of the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! the freedom of ngos is a guarantee of civil liberties and the democratic nature of political systems. unfortunately, we have been witnessing for some time now the disturbing and internationally condemned practices of the russian federation. last week, the russian duma passed a new law restricting ngos in its first reading. access to foreign funds for russian ngos will be hampered or even prevented. the new restrictions are expected to affect as many as 450,000 organizations in russia. one of the arguments in favour of the new law is that these organisations are a tool of third countries in conducting their foreign policy towards russia. it's an absurd and ridiculous democratic argument. we are witnessing practices that are foreign to the european tradition and incomprehensible. europe should get rid of the belief that the changes taking place in russia are leading to its democratization. russia is moving further and further away from democratic standards, and we should not stand by passively and watch as fundamental rights are restricted in a country that has the status of a privileged state in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! a year and a half after the accession of the eastern european countries to the european union, instead of real support to match the development of the old union countries, we are seeing more and more actions by some of the old union countries and russia that are hitting the foundations of the economies of the new members. to name just a few recent developments: germany (a member of the european union) and russia sign an agreement to build a gas pipeline under the baltic sea. the construction of this pipeline is against the economic interests of poland and the baltic states. russia blocks poland's meat trade no real help from the union. the sugar reform is being implemented, which is hitting the new members of the union particularly hard, fuelling the rise in unemployment. the proposed budget for the union is to be cut substantially to develop the poor regions in the new member states. i therefore want to warn you that either the new members of the union will be treated as individuals, or the people of these countries will soon turn against the union.
mr. chairman, please! i speak out against discrimination against polish workers legally employed, i stress legally in belgium. we are not talking about people working "under the table", but working completely officially, hired on contracts by well-known companies in flanders. their contracts were terminated, note as a result of pressure from the trade unions. this shows that in our common european union, we must change not only the law but also the mentality. we need to change the law not only in terms of access to the services market, the labour market, but i stress again, we also need to change the mentality of people. the idea of a common european union, a common europe, is no longer a real idea for everyone. i would like to see european solidarity not be an empty slogan, a slogan to drown out a completely different reality.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate on avian influenza and the pace of work so far and the document adopted by parliament and the commission are examples of good cooperation between these institutions. the flu problem is not a problem of the member states or of europe, it is a problem of the world. almost every flu outbreak has started in asia. there are dozens of viruses that have been circulating for years, and they can mutate at any time and they can be a problem for europe. today, the collaboration of organizations such as who, fao, the world bank, and the largest poultry producers in the united states, brazil, and the european union is essential to combat the outbreaks. we have until the end of the year in europe to prepare a road map and action plan for the prevention of the flu epidemic. what should we do during these few winter months? first, to guarantee the budget for 2006 and subsequent years for expenditure resulting from preventive measures. increase expenditure on veterinary expenditure and vaccine procurement for the entire poultry population in europe, as well as stockpiling adequate quantities of antiviral medicines such as tamiflu. to create a single plan for european veterinary services and public health authorities. we need to develop a strategy for funding and procurement of antiviral drugs. a single manual for avian influenza diagnosis and laboratory diagnosis should be established. to order the preparation of a scientific evaluation of the epidemiological risk of avian influenza in humans. to enable the establishment and financing of several reference laboratories in successive member states. in conclusion, i believe that the map prepared in this way, together with its implementation and the report adopted by the european parliament tomorrow, can prevent possible epidemics and panics in the future.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the work on the rapporteur's report 'the application of community competition rules to maritime transport' and its vote tomorrow is intended to start work on the regulation of healthy and fair competition in the maritime sector. in a sector which, by virtue of a council regulation, has been excluded from the provisions of the treaty establishing the european community. in particular, article 81 on the prohibition of restrictive agreements and article 82 on the prohibition of abuse of a dominant position. i would remind you that our work and reflections on the report in this area, concerning in particular regulation no 4056, are now the subject of a separate legal opinion commissioned in november 2005 by the european commission. therefore, i believe that it would be appropriate to examine carefully the conclusions of this emerging analysis before taking any further decisions. so, in any action we take, we should adopt the principle of extreme caution, not making premature, hasty decisions. this is all the more necessary because any changes we make, by not conforming to the standards of the european union's partners, i.e. the usa, australia, japan or canada, could lead to the destabilisation of economic relations. it is also worth highlighting and sounding the alarm that the changes may lead to adverse effects, especially for small and medium-sized commercial shipping lines.
mr. chairman, please! we are currently dealing with a wide variation in vat rates within the european union, we have different standard rates, different reduced rates and different ranges of application. all of this distorts the price relationships within the european union, negatively affects the allocation of resources and reduces the potential growth rate of the european union in the long run. at the same time, there are many voices, including those in this chamber today, who question the need to harmonize vat rates. i believe that the time has come for us to have a serious and comprehensive debate on the tax system in the european union and i would like to propose to the commission that it prepare a comprehensive study on the effects, benefits and possible negative effects of gradually approximating vat rates and their scope throughout the european union. we need to have solid, analytical material to really think about this. turning to the issue of the reduced rate of vat on labour-intensive services, i would like to stress once again that it was introduced six years ago as an experiment and i am really surprised that until now the member states have not been able to draw conclusions from this experiment. this situation, which at present discriminates clearly against the new member states in this respect, cannot be allowed to continue.
member of the commission. mr president, i once again express my thanks to parliament for rapidly examining the proposal on the minimum level for the standard rate – considering that the current rules come to an end on 31 december 2005 – and for the positive contribution by the rapporteur. i understand the concerns of the honourable members that we are running out of time, but wish to remind you that the commission tabled its proposal as early as 2003, and it is the council that has been unable to come to a unanimous decision. i shall briefly comment on some of the amendments. the first amendment concerns a restriction on the level of the standard rate by setting a maximum level of 25% to prevent growing divergence in the standard rates of vat applied by the member states. this would require a new proposal from the commission, thus preventing the adoption on time of a minimum rate to be applied as from 1 january 2006. moreover, given past experience it has no chance of being unanimously adopted by the council. the second amendment aims at allowing more flexibility in vat provisions in order to enable member states to react to the changing economic situation. this is not in line with the first amendment, which tries precisely to prevent such flexibility as regards the standard rate. generally speaking, this proposal is not yet the appropriate vehicle for carrying out a general assessment of the macro-economic impacts of vat rates and the associated revenue and budgetary implications for the eu member states. i am pleased that part of the one-stop-shop package concerning the vat refund scheme has the support of the honourable members. unfortunately the commission cannot accept the proposed amendments, for the following reasons. amendments 1 and 2 relate to the regulation and cooperation arrangements for the refund procedure, which forms another part of the one-stop-shop proposal. amendment 3 seeks to extend the deadline, which i believe is not necessary. amendment 4 is not workable as, on the one hand, a strict deadline of four months for refunds would be imposed on the member states, but on the other hand, there would be no deadline for a taxable person to hand in the requested additional information. the amendment is, furthermore, in contradiction with the second subparagraph of the same article, which mentions that a new period of three months starts to run as from the moment the additional information is received from the taxable person. i am convinced that the positive opinion of parliament will contribute to a timely decision in the council on the standard rate proposal, and will facilitate the discussion on the one-stop-shop proposals with a view to their adoption under the austrian presidency. concerning labour-intensive services, i have listened carefully to all the contributions and i can only remind you that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to support their inclusion in the scope of reduced rates as defined by annex h. however, the current discussions in the council are not easy. i extensively explained in my introduction why i consider that an extension of the experimental arrangements is not really a viable way forward. moreover, we need to be very cautious, since a unanimous agreement in the council on such an extension would seem as hard to achieve as a genuine agreement on the scope of the reduced rate as such. i support the consensus expressed in parliament’s resolution. this is a very important signal to the council of the need to reach an agreement that takes into account the interests of the european union as a whole, as well as those of all the member states.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation of the police force in slovakia.
member of the commission. mr president, i just want to respond to those honourable members who urged the commission to give an adequate answer. i would like to tell you that we need more information. in order to get more information we need more time, and certainly before any member of the commission comes before this house to give an adequate position, we need to have a debate in the college, on the basis of the information we need. that is my answer for the time being, but it is certainly not the commission’s last word on the matter.
i hope that the commissioner will convey the hope so clearly expressed by the house that the questions put here will be answered at a later date.
i would point out that the agenda for the strasbourg part-session, like any other part-session, is decided by the conference of presidents. i therefore believe that it will be the body which can put this matter on the agenda, provided that the commission is prepared to give such a response in strasbourg. i'm closing the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
mr. chairman, please! the union's objectives, in particular the promotion of harmonious, sustainable and sustainable development throughout the community, a high level of employment, social protection, an improved quality of life and economic and social cohesion, together with solidarity between the member states, give the impression that another paradise on earth will be achieved. however, these assumptions - especially with a significantly cut budget - have nothing to do with the reality of the situation, especially in poland, where there is 20% unemployment and the removal of obstacles to the free movement of goods, people, services and capital has destroyed polish jobs, resulting in poverty, hunger and hopelessness exacerbated by the proposed extension of the transition periods. the christmas season is a paradoxical reflection, especially when it comes to the denial of christian values, the knowledge of the truth that sets us free, which i wish to see fulfilled with hope and love on the occasion of christmas and the new year.
mr. chairman, please! the construction of the northern gas pipeline, which, despite protests and against the economic interests of the baltic states and central europe, including poland, will bypass these countries and directly connect russia and germany, thus putting at risk the loss of one third of the union's energy security, started a few days ago. the construction of the pipeline could lead to an ecological disaster in the baltic, where german chemical weapons were sunk after world war ii. during the construction, the pipeline could be damaged and toxic chemicals contaminate the sea. the very act of making a deal is a scandal. according to media reports, gerhard schröder will head the company's board of directors, and matthias warning, who was a stasi officer in the gdr secret police until 1990 and was then supposed to have met putin, then a kgb agent, is to become president. it is highly suspect that the former chancellor is to be involved in the company whose interests he has so pursued. i'm calling for a parliamentary committee to clarify the issue of the construction of the gas pipeline, its risks to the environment and the energy security of many european countries.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! in this run-up to christmas, may i offer my best wishes to all of you in this chamber. best wishes for the welfare of all and for the conduct of politics in the spirit of honesty and truth. today, when we see the proposals of the british presidency which clearly infringe the fundamental interests of the ten newly admitted countries, we are deeply puzzled as to how it is possible that in the european union in the making one of the richest countries has devised a system whereby poorer countries are supposed to pay rich countries and development programmes are designed to be at the expense of poor countries. poland paid 150 billion during the period of accession to the european union and therefore i protest in the spirit of honesty, truth and consistency. without solidarity, the european union cannot develop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, it is almost a year and a half since the last elections to the european parliament. we have therefore formed our own opinions on how it works and on the role and importance of the european union. i am sorry to say that, although we are able to pass resolutions and resolutions in defence of democracy and human rights in third countries, we are unfortunately unable to enforce our rights effectively. the european union is not respecting the most basic principle: the principle of partnership. the principle of consultation has also been breached recently when considering the proposed sugar market reform. the decisions on this matter were taken during the preparation of the draft opinion of parliament by the committee on agriculture and rural development. much of the responsibility for the disregard for parliament and its members lies with the dominant groups in parliament, which, caught up in petty squabbles, fail to see that parliament is losing its importance. in the circumstances, the work of the members from the small and newly admitted countries is losing its meaning. meps from these countries have great difficulty in qualifying for the debaters' lists, and their proposals and amendments are most often rejected by the dominant delegations in parliament or by the european commission. the question is therefore: where are we going and what is the point of our work?
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. storing and releasing energy requires the presence of many metals, toxic chemicals involved in the processes of batteries and accumulators. batteries, as part of municipal waste, are a particularly hazardous element, containing many components with adverse effects both on the environment and on human health. throwing billions of used batteries into the trash, from where they end up in the municipal wastewater treatment plant, into groundwater is especially dangerous when they contain cadmium, lead or mercury. the success of battery collection in several countries is the result of many years of efforts, while the existing technological and information lags put poland at a much worse starting position, especially as producers and distributors prefer to pay a product charge rather than to take action in the field of collection and recycling. today, as a result of environmental efforts, many facilities have containers for used batteries, and even better is the collection of batteries. although the amendment to the directive minimises the negative environmental impact of batteries and accumulators and prohibits the use of cadmium and mercury, some of the changes may put the battery industry at a much worse competitive disadvantage compared to non-european manufacturers who do not comply with the restrictive rules. this not only reduces the quality of batteries and accumulators, but also the cost of sales, which in turn can cause environmental and health risks to users, especially young children.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank mr blokland and to stress the importance of the batteries and accumulators directive and the waste batteries and accumulators directive for the protection of the environment. studies have been conducted on people living in ecological areas and water sources, and in many cases metals similar to those used in batteries and accumulators have been found. analysis of the origin of these metals suggests that they came from, among other things, batteries and accumulators that were thrown away in landfills. the decay time of discarded batteries and accumulators is very long. there are several problems, such as: underestimating the need and collection of batteries, the problem of popularizing the need for their collection and creating legal and financial means to support these activities, the problem of developing a culture and habit of collecting this waste in society, the problem of organizing and disposing of this pollution. a number of issues raised require time and continuous publicity, as well as improvements in the collection and disposal system. it also requires the promotion of technical progress in the development of their production, in particular, in order to ensure the safety of batteries.
member of the commission. mr president, i will focus now only the amendments relating to three key issues in this file: firstly, the legal basis; secondly, the definitions of ‘portable’ and ‘industrial’ battery types and, thirdly, collection targets. firstly, on the legal basis, the preamble and recital 1 – amendments 1 and 2: the commission continues to support the concept of a dual legal basis for this directive as the correct one. this dual legal basis reflects the dual objective of the proposed directive. indeed, the directive aims at achieving both a high level of environmental protection and contributing to the proper functioning of the internal market. moreover, it should be noted that the proposed directive specifies that each individual article has only one legal basis. indeed, the articles laying down provisions for the environmental protection are based on article 175 of the ec treaty. the articles laying down provisions related to the proper functioning of the internal market – namely articles 4, 5 and 18 of the proposed directive – are based on article 95 of the treaty. consequently, this dual legal basis cannot lead to any legal incompatibilities of procedures. secondly, on the definition of the different battery types – articles 3(3) and (6) and recitals 8 and 9, amendments 5, 6, 12 and 13: the definitions of ‘portable’ batteries and ‘industrial’ batteries are important since they determine the scope of the cadmium ban and the type of collection requirements. therefore, the commission is of the opinion that definitions should meet the following criteria: they should be clear, they should be workable in practice for the member states to implement in a harmonised way, and any overlaps or gaps should be avoided. taking into account the above, the commission supports the first two parts of amendment 12, in particular the introduction of the weight limit for defining portable batteries. however, the commission does not support the other changes proposed to the definitions of the different battery types – amendment 12, third part, and amendment 13. the commission welcomes the deletion of the non-exhaustive list of examples in the recitals, which considerably improves the drafting of the legislative act. thirdly, i turn to the collection targets – article 9(2) and (4) and amendments 26 to 28. the commission believes that setting collection targets in the proposed directive is necessary: firstly to ensure a minimum level of environmental protection in all member states and secondly to monitor the efficiency of the national battery-collection schemes. it is important that the collection targets are ambitious in environmental terms, but they should also be achievable, realistic and cost-efficient. the commission’s extended impact assessment carefully analysed this issue and came to the conclusion that the collection target of 160 grams or 40% would be the most cost-efficient target, which corresponds with part of amendment 26. the appropriateness of an increase in the target in the longer term will be carefully reviewed, as foreseen in article 20(2)(b) of the proposed directive. in this review, the commission will take account of technical progress and practical experience gained in member states. the commission thus in principle supports amendment 26 but reserves its opinion on amendment 56. the commission supports the amendment which deletes the possibility for member states to derogate from the proposed collection targets – the ‘transitional arrangements’. the commission had proposed this possibility since, in its initial proposal, the collection targets were based on weight per inhabitant. since the collection targets are now based on sales, it is no longer necessary to provide for this possibility of transitional arrangements. since the proposed directive already foresees a review of the long-term targets in article 20(2)(b), the commission does not see the need for a specific review obligation to increase the targets by a specific date. i will give a voting list to the secretariat, indicating which amendments are and are not acceptable to the commission. i should like to point out that the commission reserves its opinion on the additional 18 amendments tabled before the plenary, since more time is needed to fully assess the environmental, economic and social impacts thereof. i believe that the european parliament and the council can now start moving towards agreement on this file. i look forward to an early conclusion of the codecision process so that the directive can be implemented by the member states and we can achieve a high level of environmental protection in this area.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs by mrs piija-noora kauppi on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/39/ec on markets in financial instruments as regards certain time limits (com ((2005) 0253 - c6-0191/2005 - 2005/0111 ((cod))) (a6-0334/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, i want to thank all members for their observations. it is clear that we all want mifid to enter into force under the best possible conditions, and an extension of the transposition and implementation deadlines is necessary and justified. while the commission considers that the amendments relating to comitology are legally inappropriate in this context, the commission will accept them to allow an adoption of this proposal in a single reading. i understand that this issue will come back and that you will continue to include these amendments in future proposals. i attach high importance to finding a solution and in no way do i want the sense of urgency to be lost. i will therefore continue to take an open approach to the amendments. they are an important political signal of the strongly felt and legitimate requests of this house. however, flagging a problem politically is not enough: we need to solve it.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the report drawn up by mrs janelly fourtou on behalf of the committee on petitions on alleged abuses in the application of the valencian urban activity act (lrau) and its impact on european citizens (petitions 609/2003, 732/2003, 985/2002, 1112/2002, 107/2004 and others) [2004/2208 (ini) ] (a6-0382/2005).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the success of this report. first of all, i am glad that those who wrote the petition had confidence in the european union, in the committee on petitions, which i have the honour of chairing. i am also very pleased that the ombudsman of the valencian government helped with the writing, preparation and resolution of this case. i'm very pleased that the members of our june mission have been so fruitful. under the chairmanship of mr cashman, vice-president, there was mrs fourtou, who wrote this report, for which i thank her, there was mrs panayotopoulos, whom i thank for this report, and he was the head of the secretariat of our committee. all this work has resulted in this report. one might have wondered whether this petition, initially filed by mr charles svoboda on behalf of the valencia-based abusos urbanisticos no, the schuckalls and mrs ulla-britt perret, and later joined by several thousand people, was worth considering. and although it was obvious that it was suitable because of the fact that environmental rules were violated, public procurement rules were violated, but above all, the basic human right was violated, the right to property, and these were often very modest people who just wanted to spend the rest of their lives in their little houses that they built for themselves. our contacts with the petitioners our contacts with the fact finding mission, our contacts during our meetings, indicated how dramatic the situation of the people who had been deprived of their property was to a large extent. how tragic it was for them to find that some of their possessions were being taken away without their knowledge and that their fundamental rights were being seriously denied. the report drawn up by mrs fourtou was adopted unanimously in our committee (only one person abstained). it was the result of a compromise and a discussion of those amendments that were being discussed in committee. i therefore think that we should adopt this report without any amendments which might distort it today. since it was adopted unanimously, it would be good if this house adopted the report. we want valencia to introduce a new law, which it has already promised and which is a testament to the effectiveness of the work of the european parliament and our committee, which will take into account human rights, public procurement and the environment. there is also the issue of compensation for those people who have been harmed and therefore we demand that the government of valencia keep detailed records of each case separately and possibly offer appropriate compensation. i hope that commissioner mccreevy, who is here on behalf of the european commission, will make sure that these injuries are not and that they are corrected.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened to the house’s debate with great interest and i am impressed not only by its knowledge but also by its enthusiasm for and interest in the subject. as i said earlier, i am pleased that the draft report is so supportive of commission policy on the common consolidated corporate tax base. i should like to comment on the proposed amendments. mr konrad’s proposals do not pose any problem for the commission, so we support them. however, the commission does not support the amendments that deal with a possible minimum tax rate and the common consolidated corporate tax base as an instrument for bringing tax rates more closely together. the commission has no intention of limiting fair competition and harmonising the tax base. it just wants to increase the transparency of the tax burden. tax rates should remain within the competence of the member states. if we were to favour a minimum rate, i suspect we would lose valuable support from both member states and business, which will, after all, be the major beneficiaries of a common consolidated corporate tax base. as they benefit, so will consumers through the general economic benefits. i appreciate the amendment concerning research and development and acknowledge that this is an important subject. nevertheless, it is not an amendment that the commission would welcome, as the fiscal treatment of research and development is just one of the issues that we will be discussing as part of our work. i believe it would be wrong to highlight it in this way. i will say no more at this stage. i welcome the european parliament’s interest in the subject and i look forward to learning the outcome of the vote on the report.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by matine roure on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the european year of equal opportunities for all (2007) - towards a fairer society (com (2005) 0225 - c6-0178/2005 - 2005/0107 (cod)) (a6-0366/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to express my thanks to the honourable members for the support voiced in this debate. i would like to underline that the commission shares your commitment to fighting all forms of discrimination in all member states. the commission is prepared to urge all member states to allocate the financial resources accordingly. generally speaking, the commission accepts all the amendments proposed by parliament. i will not go through them individually, but will concentrate on the key issues. we support the amendments aimed at reinforcing the involvement of civil society and the implementation of the european year of equal opportunities for all. this will be a key factor in its success. we can accept the increased references to gender mainstreaming. we are fully in agreement with the fact that, during the year, member states should attach equal importance to all the grounds for discrimination set out under article 13 of the treaty, namely discrimination based on sex, ethnic or racial origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. it is acceptable to set up a simplified system for administrative management of the funds at national level, as proposed. we agree to the increase in the budget from eur 13.6 million to eur 15 million. to sum up, the commission can accept all the amendments proposed. i conclude by warmly thanking the rapporteur, mrs roure, whose commitment to non-discrimination issues was instrumental in bringing the negotiations with the member states to a successful conclusion. these went very quickly and were very rewarding. the text, which is submitted for your final approval, reinforces the commission’s initial position and gives us the means to take action in favour of diversity throughout the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr pittelli, and to the chairman of the committee, mr lewandowski. mr. chairman, please! the 2006 budget is wrong and must be rejected. this was the reasoned request of the independence and democracy group and other political groups. we call on all mps to join us. here are the facts: since 2004, the european union has grown by 10 new countries, 20% of the population has arrived. more and more newly admitted countries are in need of aid, solidarity, subsidies, because of their backwardness. in 2007, the european union will be enlarged by two new countries, bulgaria and romania, and the population will increase by 6%. secondly, the european union has been growing at a slower rate of less than 2% for many years, while the united states and south-east asia are growing at a much faster rate. the competitiveness of european enterprises is deteriorating. does the 2006 budget take account of these facts? the answer is no. the budget grows by about 2%, after taking inflation into account, which means that there is less and less money per citizen of the union. moreover, there are no changes in the structure of budget expenditure that would result in increased appropriations for lagging countries and regions and increased appropriations for high-performance sections. the budget preserves old mechanisms, promotes departments of the expensive and inefficient economy. such a budget risks making backward countries net contributors. but there are also specific reasons why the 2006 budget should be rejected. it is being used as a scarecrow to scare the backward countries into accepting the uk's proposed budget for 2007-13. the threat is that if you do not adopt the 2007-2013 budget, you will have to agree to an annual budget break based on 2006 figures, which may mean that you will receive even less. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. does the difference in the amounts not make all members aware of how little parliament's opinion means, how it is disregarded, how the interests of individual countries are put before the common interest? we, the members who are proposing to reject the budget, see a fundamental contradiction between the declarations and slogans of the leaders and the selfish policies of the rich.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i speak on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group. our group will vote in favour of the council and parliament's agreement on the 2006 budget, although it is difficult to find it satisfactory. we find it difficult to accept a payment of 1.01% of national income. a compromise on this issue is really a capitulation to the council, which is cutting the union's expenditure with a stubbornness worthy of the best cause, violating the principle of solidarity and cohesion in the name of the particular interests of net contributors. the council's concessions on the flexibility instrument and programmes requiring co-decision do not in any way compensate for this inclination of the council. we are disappointed that commissioner grybauskaitė has not even maintained the commission's previous position on the amount of the budget during the conciliation procedure. the budgetary level is dangerously close to 1%, a level which is not only a symbolic limit to the achievement of the union's basic objectives. this is all the more worrying as the 2006 budget can serve as a reference point for the hard-won financial perspective for 2007-13. this risk increases the possibility of a failure of the negotiations on the financial perspective, in which case the 2006 budget will be the basis for subsequent annual budgets. solidarity and cohesion policy may thus be the victim of the council's position for many years to come. is this the union we want? ladies and gentlemen, the weakest of all the options has been accepted. we have to realize that a low budget cannot be a good budget. i agree that a big budget can be bad, but a small budget can't be a good budget. the words were: 'we have a small but good budget', but that is not acceptable, it is not acceptable to have a budget that ignores the needs of countries (especially newly admitted ones) for whom solidarity is a fundamental issue. there are phenomena which often discourage community policy, discourage the citizens of the european union from the great idea of the european union. this is the case, for example, with the recent case of former chancellor schröder, who takes a position on a very controversial issue for many new members of the european union, the construction of a gas pipeline down the baltic sea. this is a matter which has a very wide and negative impact in the new member states of the union, and not only in the new ones, because i have here the german newspaper reports which are very critical of the decision of former chancellor schröder. if the new member states are told that they will not have enough money to meet their basic needs, which are to strengthen a certain instinct of the european community, if such phenomena, which on the one hand are damaging the reputation of prominent politicians in the european union, are accompanied by cuts in spending for the new member states, then we must realize that this very instinct of the european community - the instinct of solidarity - will be weakened rather than strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad budget, not only because it is small, but because, as i said, it will be a projection of the future and will destroy that sense of european community, that instinct of european community which we should all care about.
mr. chairman, please! the second budget of the enlarged european union is now a reality. there should be no surprises in the final vote, given the high level of agreement in parliament, so i will start with a thank you, which i will not have time to say later. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, giovanni pittelli, valdis dombrovskis, reimer böge, salvador garridze, the coordinators of the political groups, and our secretariat, headed by maria fialho. our partners in this endeavour, namely minister lewis and commissioner grybauskaitė, are well aware that this year has not been easy, that tensions have arisen in the negotiations, but this does not diminish the mutual respect that the participants in this institutional triangle of the european union have for each other. the european parliament had to reaffirm its mission, its commitments under the electoral act, and it did. this was reflected in the efforts to defend the priorities in the domestic and foreign policy chapter, which is not easy in the last year of the financial perspective. i am pleased that we have been able to find additional money in the six co-decision programmes and that it has been necessary to use the flexibility instrument in excess of the annual limit. all in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, which confirmed its value. we will certainly remember the composure of the parliamentary team during those nervous negotiating moments. it was a real unity in diversity and a good prognosticator for the future. but the satisfaction of having a decent budget for 2006 is diminished by uncertainty about the long-term outlook. not on our side - we have a position and we're waiting. i hope that this week we will see a sign that the european union is breaking out of the crisis by reaching agreement on the most difficult issue of money. and it is not an agreement that puts the poorest countries on the back foot, which, as we all know, need predictability to make a sensible regional policy.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the 2006 budget, i would like to point out that the payments in this budget are as much as 0.07% of gnp lower than the figures in the financial perspective for 2000-06 and 0.02% lower than the payments foreseen for the year ending in 2005. this is not good news, especially for the new members of the european union. despite this fundamental reservation, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that the procedure for adopting the 2006 budget is coming to an end. this required two arduous rounds of conciliation negotiations with the council and the decisive attitude of both the negotiating team and the european parliament as a whole. this is a particularly important signal at a time when the financial perspective for 2007-13 is being discussed and the council and parliament are unfortunately very far apart on this issue. the amount for payment in the 2006 budget is close to eur 112 billion and represents 1.01 of the european union's gnp. this is significantly higher than the level of payments proposed by the uk presidency for individual years in the 2007-13 financial perspective. this seems to be the main argument in the debate on the level of payments for 2007-2013 in a situation where the european union is not only not giving up funding for any of its existing activities, but is, on the contrary, looking to increase its interest. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their reports. i hope that this time we will be able to implement the budget in full, so that we do not complain at the end of 2006 that these modest funds have not been spent rationally.
in writing. among the environmental provisions negotiated in the accession treaties was the previous directive 91/157/eec setting the levels of recovery and disposal of batteries. the european commission is now proposing a new system for the collection, treatment and disposal of waste batteries and accumulators. poland has transposed the provisions of the previous directive into national law and we are now in the implementation phase. suddenly, new solutions are proposed and collection levels are set much higher than before. this is certainly the right way to ensure safety and to improve the environmental quality of europe, but it must be done in a way that is consistent with existing solutions. unfortunately, most of the amendments of the rapporteur are not supported by any studies and assessment of the impact on the development of companies in this sector. and it is the entrepreneurs who will bear the costs of the new law. the collection levels proposed in amendments nos 26 and 27 are requirements which are impossible for most member states to meet. the new member states are only in the process of establishing a complex system for the collection of waste batteries based on the directive. there's no rational explanation today for the 40 percent and 60 percent collection levels. the proposal to increase the recycling rate to 55% is also unacceptable and unjustified. moreover, an efficient battery collection system is linked to the promotion and development of social habits, which requires a long-term approach when proposing new solutions.
madam president! this debate is about the most important thing to a person. everyone in this parliament has long said that freedom is the most important thing for man, that without freedom human civilization cannot develop properly. and while it is true that terrorism must be fought by all means and methods available, it cannot be done at the expense of human freedom. this directive will in no way achieve the objective it has set itself. today, there are technologies that allow real terrorists and real criminals to evade the most precise controls. it will be used to keep a complete watch on millions of free citizens. this data is gonna leak, commissioner. and you're a hypocrite because yesterday you said otherwise in the joint committees, defending yourself against the charge of transporting various terrorists by the cia and interrogating them on european soil, and today you support a solution that clearly restricts civil rights.
madam president! data retention regulations can undoubtedly be of great help in the fight against terrorism and serious crime, and the efforts of all those involved in reaching consensus on this matter should be commended. however, i have serious doubts as to the interpretation of article x of the directive, which allows, by means of the appropriate procedure, the retention period to be extended beyond two years. when asked by a journalist from poland whether a period of 15 years for the retention of such data was permissible, minister clarke replied that even in such an extreme case such a long period would not be contrary to the directive. the draft amendment to the telecommunications law, which is being tabled in the polish parliament by the parliamentary club of the ruling party, provides for such a 15-year retention period. i think this is a kind of test for the application of the directive. i consider that such a period of 15 years runs counter to the 'philosophy' of the directive, which is intended to protect the right to privacy, and also clearly infringes the principle of proportionality and the adequacy of its aims and effects, posing a potential threat to the conduct of police state practices serving the provisional political aims of the government and the long-term deep surveillance of citizens. the possible leakage of data collected over such a long period could also create more opportunities for criminal groups to exploit it, which is contrary to the basic objective of this directive. i therefore want to have a clear answer from you, commissioner, but also from the council representatives, as to whether the commission can accept a retention period of 15 years under the article x procedure. i hope that minister clarke's response to a polish journalist was due to a misinterpretation of the directive. however, minister clarke may have made some concessions to the polish government in order to reach a compromise at any cost, but if we adopt common regulations, we can demand a uniform interpretation of them by the institutions of the european union.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! for the past seven years, the annual report on human rights has been published. that's good, that's good. the bill of rights was passed. that's good, that's good. but we are wary of the thinking, quite common in communist times, that if there is a problem, an office or agency is called. there is a question whether we really need the fundamental rights agency, as the council representative was saying a moment ago. no one has ever proved that so convincingly. it is good that the union is cooperating with the organization for security and cooperation at work in europe and the united nations commissioner for human rights in the field of human rights. it is wrong for the union to accept the de facto existence of so-called double standards, when we consistently insist on human rights in small and weak countries, but no longer in the big and strong ones with which we prefer to do business. we fight for human rights in our enemies, in neutral countries, but we are shamefully silent when human rights are violated in our allies. commissioner ferrero-waldner also sometimes gets her mouth watering, especially when it comes to areas and countries which are considered to be strategic partners of the union. i call for consistency and not selective treatment of the union's fundamental values, which are human rights.
madam president! the rapporteur of this very complex directive has guided us very carefully through a legislative area which at times resembles a minefield. but the question is, has it led us to where we want to go? the aim is, of course, to improve transport infrastructure, not just road infrastructure, but also, as a result, to reduce congestion, reduce accidents and reduce emissions of harmful substances. the only way to answer this question in the affirmative is if there are guarantees, i repeat: guarantees that all the funds generated by the use of the euro-winet will be used for transport purposes. and there is no guarantee of that. it was therefore right that some members were saying, also today, that these charges could be treated by the member states as a quasi-tax. of course, the rapporteur could not regulate this particular area, because it is absolutely governed by the principle of subsidiarity, but if we fail here, if the member states use the money from the euro to cover their budgetary gaps, then this will undermine the purpose of introducing this legal regulation. i therefore call on the european commission to monitor as closely as possible the disbursement of the money from the euro notes. it would also be good if the european parliament were informed of any irregularities in this respect. and i'm here to speak to commissioner barosso. commissioner, this directive is your child too. may the lord give this child special care, may the lord blow and blow on it.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, on her excellent work. this directive is very important for road hauliers. why would you do that? first, we are closing the period of almost historical free roads in europe. second, we're introducing road tolls that are proportional to the use of the roads. thirdly, it is an additional financial burden for road hauliers. however, the directive is important for the road industry as a source of financing, which is important for the new countries, including my country, poland. the directive is very important for the sustainable development of the transport sector, but - i am addressing myself to commissioner barrot - commissioner, we must systematically analyse the effects of this directive on both the hauliers and the road transport market, as well as the effects on the increase in the share of rail that we so desire.
madam president! i thank the rapporteur very much for a very good report. the document is above all an important political message for the european commission, the governments of the member states and the business and consumer communities. when shaping european consumer policy, we must take account of the specificities of the new member states. the rapporteur has comprehensively described in his report the situation and position of consumer organisations in the new countries which are only just developing in the internal market and which are still lacking in resources and know-how. it is therefore very important to pool the financial and training efforts of different groups and institutions to create strong and independent consumer organisations. it should be borne in mind that in many of the new member states these organisations are financially dependent on the state and it is difficult to require them to be independent. the proposal to simplify and make eu funding more flexible is therefore fully justified. in addition to funding, it is also important to train staff, create patronage organisations, twin, advisory and other projects that will contribute to strengthening consumer organisations and, consequently, to increasing social awareness and consumer culture. in conclusion, i would like to make one comment on the information and liaison with consumer organisations. as a new member of parliament, i work for the imco committee and i have to admit that my cooperation and contacts with consumer organisations in my country are just beginning. often these organizations do not have access to current information or the internet, which makes it very difficult for us to communicate. i therefore think that it would be a very good idea to publish monthly magazines for the new member states, analysing current european consumer policy, as the honourable member proposes in his report.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen of the house! i'm not going to let you down. when we talk about public aid as one of the means of regional development, we must be aware that it comes - in one way or another - from the taxpayer's pocket. it should therefore be based on clear, transparent criteria and be directed to where it will actually produce the desired results. in this case, it will contribute to the more rapid development of the various areas of the union. i would therefore ask the commission to submit an annual report on the actual involvement of all the member states in this form of aid, which is clearly interfering with the free market. of course, it is often justified. but it is certainly not justified when the money is used to support inefficient companies. this is particularly true in the context of the growing interest - and rightly so - in the use of public-private partnerships for various infrastructure projects. there is great temptation to abuse. i hope that doesn't happen. i understand that public aid measures in the union as a whole amounted to some eur 62 billion last year. of these, 17.2 were issued in germany, 8.9 in france, 7 in italy and 2.9 in poland. were these expenses entirely reasonable? i doubt that. there are too few forms of aid for so-called horizontal investment, which include, among other things, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection projects, the development of research and the stimulation of innovation. the commissioner was just talking about that. this should be the mainstream of public aid, because only then does it contribute to the real development of the regions. the involvement of public funds in industries or large companies that do not produce positive effects can only be accepted temporarily and only if it serves the real restructuring and increases the profitability of enterprises. otherwise, it's just a waste of public money. public aid, which directly or indirectly promotes regional development, is intended to strengthen territorial, social and economic cohesion. it should be a tool for a policy of equalisation, which is a sign of solidarity within the member states and the community as a whole. in this context, i consider the polish government's initiative to launch a programme for eastern poland, covering regions with the lowest per capita gdp in the union, to be very reasonable. these include the carpathian basin, lublin and the podlasie. urban agglomerations, which are local metropolitan centres, deserve special attention. recent examples from french cities illustrate how painfully dramatic the effects of social rejection can be. the regions affected by high unemployment, which is sometimes passed on from one generation to another, should not be forgotten. another important area is rural areas, where many difficult economic, social and demographic problems are concentrated. i consider it important to define clearly the so-called eligible costs so that the final decision can be taken in the member state. finally, i would like to express my support for the report on the 2007-2013 perspective, but with the amendments that supplement it.
madam president! today we are not directly debating european solidarity, cohesion policy and the distribution of european funds. in reality, however, we are not far from the principle of solidarity and from the debate on the factors of economic development, and in particular on the factors which facilitate and hinder the functioning of the economy in the member states. decisions on public aid at regional level remain the sole responsibility of the european commission, but the european parliament, while actively working on the legislative package related to cohesion policy, cannot remain passive on public aid matters. the report therefore stresses in particular the expectation that the commission will not adopt its position until the new financial perspective is in place and the budget for cohesion policy has been adopted. the appropriate regulation of the level of public aid should enhance the effects of structural interventions and not restrict economic freedom, including the activity of undertakings. public aid should not become a substitute, artificially prohibiting activities such as the relocation of companies. the aim of economic activities in the member states should also be to create conditions which encourage investment within the union and to create favourable, predictable conditions for business, rather than to create artificial prohibitions which interfere with relations within the european union. it is also essential to consult regional and local authorities on the criteria for the designation of regions for assistance.
mr. chairman, please! the dramatic nature of the current debate on the financial perspective is that it is not about money, but about a climate of confidence - firstly, and about the future of europe - secondly. the climate of confidence, because it is a question of whether the promises that have not been kept, and also the words of the british prime minister, who spoke of the need to help the weaker countries, have any significance, or whether it is really a question of putting something else, which violates the principle of european policy, in the foreground. that's the other problem. the question is whether we want a united europe, so that it is not only enlarged but also united. and that means a certain policy of solidarity. we have the european commission's proposals, the european parliament's proposals and the böge report. they are an expression of the european spirit and an understanding of the needs of europe's future. and on the other hand, the british proposal, recently put forward, which is an expression of the national selfishness of the great and the rich. we know that europe has paid a heavy price for centuries for this selfishness. there is no compromise between selfishness and a sense of national spirit. and that's why we have to look forward to a new british proposal, a completely new one, with hope. she's the only one who can solve this crisis. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! britain's assumption of the presidency of the union created the chance for this bureaucratic and inefficient organisation to embark on a path of substantial reform and for the big voices to be heard as much as the smaller or less developed member states. the british prime minister, six months ago, here in the european parliament, spoke of putting aside national egos in favour of turning europe into a continent of solidarity, and thereby a continent that is politically credible and economically competitive. now, at the end of the presidency, it's clear that it was just brilliant rhetoric. it is unlikely that the union will have a modern and development-oriented multiannual budget anytime soon. it is equally unlikely that the way in which the 25 member states are dealt with will change. the union will continue to be governed by opaque arrangements of the strong, in which the weak are supposed to be silent or to be coy. otherwise, the new member states, who have been "graciously" welcomed and paid their full dues, are accused of ingratitude, or, as the british ambassador in warsaw put it, "life is brutal and full of ambushes". we do not approve of such a union. (laughter)
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. punctuality is the virtue of kings. britain is a kingdom, but its ministers are not punctual, which is a great metaphor. the union is waiting for london to make a reasonable proposal, and london is late, as minister alexander was late today. mr cohn-bendit said in this room today that it is may in this room, but i think it is more like winter in stalingrad during the second world war. relations between the commission and the council, and between individual countries, are virtually ice-cold. it is a pity that at the beginning of the 21st century, we in the european parliament have gone back half a century from the era of 3d films to the era of black and white cinema. we have in this film the good sheriff barosso, the spokesman for european solidarity, and we have the villain, prime minister blair. unfortunately, only american westerns end well. the british presidency is a horror film, and it's headed for disaster, but it's not going to have the greek zorby saying, "what a beautiful disaster". because this, ladies and gentlemen, is an ugly disaster. it's the holidays. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the character of rodak blair, charles dickens, in a christmas carol over 100 years ago, portrayed the current british prime minister. but there, the main character, a terrible miser, underwent a metamorphosis. i wish the same metamorphosis on the miser, prime minister blair.
mr. chairman, please! in june, the uk blocked the budget perspective proposed by the luxembourg presidency. we heard from prime minister blair that the union needs a different budget - a budget where less money goes to traditional agricultural policy objectives and more money goes to modern objectives, to developing poor regions and new member states. these words raised hopes that the union was overcoming the period of national selfishness and perhaps making a great leap forward toward modernization. unfortunately, after five months -- because nothing had happened for five months -- we received an offer that was deeply disappointing. the uk was unable to persuade its other partners to reform the cap and was unable to give up its steadily increasing rebate. as a result, all the cuts proposed in the budget are unfair cuts, because they affect the new member states for the most part. it turns out that one quarter of the €6 billion cut proposed by the british presidency affects only one country, namely poland. minister alexander, i would like to ask you if you see a possibility for the prime minister of poland to return to the country and declare to the polish people that he accepts such proposals? this is just unrealistic. the proposal that the british presidency has put forward is an unimaginable proposal. it is the expression of a vision of europe which is not accepted here in this parliament. the european parliament does not share this view. mr alexander, never before in the history of europe has the principle of solidarity and cohesion been so threatened. never before have european countries been so involved in defending their own selfish and short-term interests. i would urge you to tell the british presidency that we expect it to rise to the challenge and be able to reach a compromise which respects the principles on which the european union is founded.
mr president, the eu needs a budget, but not at any cost. the commission’s proposal was optimal and in agreement with the commitments of the edinburgh council of 1992. do you still remember the 1.27% of gni from edinburgh? the european parliament’s bigger budget is realistic in protecting crucial areas of eu priorities. our parliament wants to free the dynamism of new member states and use it to the advantage of the economy of the whole union. we should not, as under the humiliating british proposal, penalise them and push them into second class membership status. the luxembourg proposal was already scarce and at the limits of acceptability. the british proposal has crossed the red line in terms of the overall level of commitments and unacceptable reduction of funds for the poorest member states. non-agreement is better than an agreement that contradicts the very principle of european integration. the budget is not only about figures; it is about principles and policy choices. reducing the budget when our union is larger and has new tasks is contrary to logic and common sense. it means amputating eu policies, slice by slice: real salami tactics. the budget is about the solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness of an enlarged union, not about charity. we do not want charity. we are not beggars. we want our money back. but, even applying an accountant’s approach, the proposal is contrary to honest business practice. new members opened their markets and committed themselves to apply high and costly eu standards. matching transfers of 4% of gni was a legitimate expectation based on political promise. limiting that support today means breaking the contract. our parliament, showing self-respect, should prevent the erosion of the eu in the name of the impossible and destructive doctrine of ‘more europe for less money’. the primary source of that doctrine is the 1% budget proposal, the famous ‘letter of six’: the proposal to have, to use the words of president barroso, ‘a mini europe’. the 1% philosophy means détricotage of the union and leading the union into a trap of doing l’impossible. when there is a crisis of leadership – and there is – the european parliament should take the lead and the responsibility, together with the european commission, and veto the council proposal if there is any bottom line set by the luxembourg proposal. best wishes and merry christmas to the outgoing british presidency. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! the members of the epp-ed group in the libe committee are keen to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms and to respect international obligations and conventions. these are the most fundamental values which enable all citizens of democratic countries in the european union to live and work safely and harmoniously. i therefore agree that in order to effectively combat terrorism and thus protect the lives of citizens, we must do so in accordance with the international conventions that apply to us, taking care to protect the right to preserve human dignity, even if he is a terrorist. on september 11th, 2001, the terrorists waged war on our civilization based on judeo-christian values. america has taken up this challenge by limiting the reach of the murderous plans of terrorist organizations. let us remember that the fight against the fanatics of terrorism is not an episodic one, it will continue for decades. after the attacks in madrid and london, europe joined the fight, actively proposing effective methods of action against terrorism, but with respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, including for terrorists. in this context, torture should not and cannot take place in any european country. we will therefore vote in favour of the establishment of a temporary committee to investigate allegations of transport, detention or torture of prisoners in the countries of the european union. it is important, however, that the activities of such a committee not serve to escalate anti-american sentiments in europe and that the results and findings of its work are not prejudged. i hope that the work of this committee will help to define the necessary balance between the values that are so important to every european citizen - the protection of the right to life and the protection of life itself, by effectively ensuring our security - and the protection of fundamental human rights, including the right to legal defence of suspects of crimes such as terrorism and the right to a fair trial.
mr. chairman, please! the commission is yes, anti-american hysteria is no! yes, in the most concise terms, we could state our position on the establishment of a parliamentary body to investigate media reports of cia detention in europe. we need to clear this up. but i caution against using it as a convenient weapon against ugly america. in the name of human rights, let's not throw out the baby with the bathtub. let us keep the right proportions, let us not lump together regimes that have made brutal human rights violations the basis of their existence with countries that have occasionally violated human rights. i would like to believe a little bit maybe the overzealous but very sympathetic commissioner frattini, who convinces us that these prisons in europe did not exist. but i'm afraid we should listen to the head of the cia on this matter, who doesn't deny reports of secret prisons on our continent. we are in favour of the committee, but we would not like it to become an anti-american theatre, also because america has many names. we must defend human rights by rejecting the double standards i spoke about yesterday, but we cannot treat universal values such as human rights as a weapon in a political struggle. when we call a committee, let's remember that!
mr president, i would first of all like to say that it is very important that a temporary committee be set up, not only to affirm that the european union is primarily concerned with respect for human rights, but also to establish the truth about this matter. i am glad to hear mr alexander and mr frattini give the european union's view, but i should also like to say that i was surprised to hear commissioner frattini and the representatives of the european commission take up with confidence the rumours that there were detention centres for the us secret services in two eastern european countries, poland and romania. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that to my knowledge there has never been a detention camp in poland since 1989, whether american or otherwise, where prisoners are illegally held. if so, i would like that to be said. but if not, i would like the shame that has been cast on my country without any evidence, by rumors, to be washed away. i ask that the temporary committee get down to work, that it tell the whole truth about this matter and i look forward with confidence to the day when it does and my colleagues hear it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. chairman, please! it is clear that the fight against terrorism must be effective and therefore in its own way ruthless. the key to this fight is intelligence, special operations, often operating within the bounds of the law. at the same time, the fight against terrorism is being waged in defence of fundamental liberal democratic values, which are based on, among others, habeas corpus the right to bodily integrity, the prohibition of detaining anyone in prison without a court order and the compulsion of testimony in an investigation, or the absolute prohibition of torture. the cia-run facilities are not only outside the geneva convention system, but also outside the control of the american justice system, both civilian and military. the same authorities track, kidnap, detain for months, interrogate without due diligence and eventually decide to release. the control of the activities of the secret services is one of the measures of the quality of democracy in the new global era. in europe, there is a dangerous tendency to regard the european union as an economic club whose sole task is to develop the common market. the european union is not that kind of club. the european union is also a political community, whose membership is linked to the signing of the treaty on european union, which guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i say this exactly 24 years after martial law was imposed in my country, poland, which was characterized by the detention of people suspected of union activity in detention centers without a court order for many months. i speak today on behalf of all the citizens of the european union, for whom human rights, political and civil liberties are the very meaning of the community. we have a right to the truth. the institutions of the european union must clarify this matter thoroughly and ensure that the governments of the member states respect the treaty on european union throughout the union.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the poles in particular understand and have always supported the aspirations of bulgaria and romania towards european integration. this is due both to geographical proximity and to a similarly difficult history of recent decades. we continue to follow with the utmost attention and sympathy the progress made by both countries in reforming their political and economic systems. but i have serious doubts whether the hopes of both countries for joining the european union will be fulfilled. the financial perspective proposed by the uk presidency for 2007-13 does not include the cost of new enlargement. the union will not be able to meet its commitments, despite the political declarations it has made. this also means that the pre-accession and post-accession eu funds for bulgaria and romania will be far from sufficient to ensure a level playing field for their development. and once again, this may prove that the eu's solidarity principle is a long-dead letter.
president-in-office of the council. i am almost speechless, given the level of criticism usually directed towards me, that such a generous compliment has been paid, albeit in the final hours of my appearance before parliament. let me return the compliment by saying that i know that the honourable member has a strong reputation in the united kingdom for his committed work on diversity over many years. it was therefore no surprise to me to see that he had tabled such a question before this chamber today. i can certainly give him the assurance he seeks: we will continue to work hard to share the best practice, as i described, to ensure that there is effective cooperation on this issue of diversity, both in the remaining period of the british presidency and well beyond that in the years to come.
president-in-office of the council. the council has on several occasions noted the possible benefits of an agreement on further changes in the world trade organization’s outcomes during negotiations in the framework of the doha development agenda within the wto. the council has expressed support for future comprehensive multilateral negotiations, which reflects its wish for substantial progress in world trade liberalisation, securing continuing global economic growth, increased job creation, prosperity and sustainable development, and addressing the concerns of civil society. the council has noted that a further multilateral change of trade was the best way to meet the challenges posed by economic and technological change and increasing globalisation. the council sees this multilateral change as the most appropriate approach for achieving substantial and balanced results for the benefit of all wto members. a number of studies have tried to assess the magnitude of the benefits for the european union. for example, a widely-cited world bank study in 2005 estimates that the potential gains from full liberalisation of global merchandise trade would be around usd 65 billion for the eu-25 and the efta countries by 2015. the council has not explicitly commented on the consequences ‘if no deal is done’. the ramifications of a failed round go much wider than trade. it would send a negative message about multilateral cooperation. on the contrary, a good trade deal is an important part of our efforts to tackle poverty and promote global security in the long term, which have been such a focus of our work in the course of our presidency.
president-in-office of the council. i am increasingly humbled by the compliments that are being paid to me. i now see a whole new employment possibility opening up before me. if we fail to reach agreement at the european council this weekend, you will be able to enjoy my dulcet tones at brussels airport in the future, announcing flights departing for dublin and for edinburgh. i sincerely hope that does not turn out to be the outcome of the european council this weekend. i am not sure if my observations were always intentionally humorous, but i shall take the compliment in the spirit in which it was intended in this holiday season. on the serious and substantive point that the honourable lady raises with me, i can assure you this has been a matter that we have given much thought to in the course of our presidency, both as a result of the extraordinary meeting of the general affairs council that took place to discuss the terms of the mandate for trade commissioner peter mandelson, in light of the fact that, from the government that presently holds the presidency, not only margaret beckett but also hilary benn and alan johnson are presently in hong kong doing what they can to sustain our case that the best outcome in hong kong would be a balanced and ambitious outcome which would allow a successful conclusion of the round. however, that raises exactly the point that the honourable member addressed: what is a balanced and ambitious outcome for the hong kong talks and, indeed, for the doha development round in general? i have always been clear that there is and should be no contradiction between an agenda which is pro-jobs in the european union and pro-poor in the world. one need only consider the potential gains for the developing world from a successful outcome to the hong kong meeting and indeed the doha round to be encouraged to take whatever steps are necessary to see the progress that would not only be in the interests of this union, but in the interests of the broader cause of proving that globalisation can work, not simply for a minority of the world’s citizens but, if the right public policy choices are made, in the interests of the poorest people and well as the rich people in this world today.
president-in-office of the council. the council is aware of parliament’s long-standing interest in this issue and has already had the opportunity to reply to several questions from parliament on these matters. this was a subject that featured prominently in the debate we have just concluded on the potential accession of bulgaria and romania. parliament has consistently stressed the great importance that it attaches to the issue of care of children, the disabled and the mentally ill in romania. the union’s clear position that romania, as a future member of the european union, must comply with high standards in these areas, has been expressed throughout romania’s accession process. the union’s views were reiterated during the latest meeting with the european union-romania association council on 14 june 2005. the commission’s 2005 comprehensive monitoring report on romania, to which the honourable member refers, is still being examined by the council. the council’s general opinion, however, remains clear on these issues. these are priority areas, in which remaining shortcomings must be adequately addressed as soon as possible. the progress already made needs to be followed by further implementation, further improvements and the allocation of both adequate funding and staffing levels. this applies to all areas of care, but is particularly important with regard to the situation for the disabled and the mentally ill. the council will closely follow and evaluate future developments and continue to raise these concerns directly with romania.
president-in-office of the council. firstly, in relation to his final remark, i have even more sympathy with him on exactly that point than i did at the beginning of the uk presidency. if i do not manage a job in brussels airport, perhaps i will manage one in frankfurt airport, to where i often have to travel, given the length of the questions i face here in this chamber. in relation to the substantive point that he raises, however, this matter was addressed directly in the commission monitoring report to which i referred. romania has started to develop a strategy to close large residential institutions for the disabled and replace them with alternative community-based services in smaller residential units. a public campaign is also under way to raise awareness of disabled rights, i hope addressing some of the points that the honourable member raises. however, clearly, as he suggests, more work is needed. but the new policies, i have to say, are encouraging. psychiatric care requires more immediate attention: living conditions for patients are poor and budgetary resources, as was implied, are limited. the 2002 law on mental health and protection of people with psychological disorders is still not being implemented. the government has begun to tackle this issue and we want to see this work stepped up.
president-in-office of the council. the comments that have been put to me today are communicated, in turn, to the european commission, in view of their ongoing monitoring role in this accession process, and given the strength of feeling being communicated in the chamber this evening.
president-in-office of the council. fisheries quotas for the baltic sea for 2006 were jointly agreed by the european community and russia in september on the basis of scientific advice produced by the international council for the exploration of the sea in may. the relevant details are set out in the commission’s proposals to put such quotas into community law. this should be adopted at the agriculture and fisheries council on 20 and 21 december 2005.
madam president, minister, i have to go. i thank you for your answer, but i would prefer to hear a more definite statement that goes to the heart of my question, namely the rules for the allocation of quotas and the protection periods. the annual negotiations on this issue must finally be based on objective and convincing evidence. the ones you mentioned don't seem to be. the scope of the previous baltic stock surveys was known to be limited by too few survey catches and by the lack of substantial agreement on the methodological basis for biomass assessment. if you get tired of airports, i'd like to invite you to the baltic sea.
president-in-office of the council. the council will meet on 20 and 21 december to agree next year’s fishing deal for european union waters. i referred the honourable member to the relevant details that have been set out in the commission’s proposals and, for his assistance, i would recommend document com(2005)0598, which sets out the relevant details for the commission’s proposals to put such quotas into community law. it may also be of assistance to the honourable member to be aware that there will be two separate regulations, one for the north-east atlantic, but one, which i judge to be his primary interest, for the baltic, in particular.
president-in-office of the council. there is at present no proposal before the council to establish a european union ban on corporal punishment of children in european union member states. the council does not have information on, nor does it deem it appropriate to comment on the state of the domestic legislation of member states in this regard.
president-in-office of the council. i would reiterate that the council does not deem it appropriate to comment on the state of domestic legislation of individual member states, but i would certainly recognise that the use of corporal punishment in individual member states and the rights of children are not within the competence of the european union, which explains the brevity of my response.
madam president! unfortunately, i am not convinced by the minister's answer, because the council has done little to get the countries of the european union to ratify the hague convention on the rights of parents and the protection of the rights of the child, and these matters are regulated there. as we know, only six countries have ratified the hague convention, and the others have not, so these cases may still occur and i wanted to ask what the council has done about it.
in writing. as someone who has worked with the disabled community for many years, i offer the following reasoning. disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility due to disability or other conditions, such as old age, remain full citizens even during the journey. this group of persons includes blind and deaf-mutes who require appropriate access to information while travelling. it is wrong to charge disabled people for additional air travel. it is suggested that these costs (not so high) be included in the general costs of the individual carriers. disabled people should be guaranteed that their needs will be met throughout the union, regardless of the airline or airport they use. assistance should be provided at every stage of the journey (moving around the terminal, provision of a wheelchair and a carer at the check-in desk, boarding and disembarking, baggage collection, transfer, etc.). it is advisable to ask carriers to install appropriate facilities to facilitate the boarding and disembarkation of disabled persons. passenger aircraft designers should also take care to adapt the width of aisles, the size of toilets, etc., to the needs of persons with reduced mobility. there is also a need to harmonise the disability assistance system in union air transport, including the establishment of a service standard applicable to all community airports.
on behalf of the pse group, mr president! in october this year, the european parliament adopted resolutions on the unjust imprisonment of lama tenzin delek rinpoche by the chinese authorities. it didn't work. he is still being held and tortured despite his poor health. this just shows how high the human rights violation practice has reached in china. chinese authorities are currently conducting what is called "patriotic education" to force tibetans to sign a declaration rejecting the dalai lama as their spiritual leader and recognizing tibet as part of china. the refusal to sign the declaration is liable to repression and arrest, and tibetan monks are particularly at risk, as has been repeatedly emphasised here. as a result of this specific "patriotic education", one of them has already died in unknown circumstances, and five have been arrested. furthermore, since november 25th, the drepung monastery with its 7,000 inhabitants has been occupied by chinese special forces and thus completely cut off from the outside world. as the international community has seen in tibet, it must continue to press china to improve the conditions of detention, to abolish torture and the death penalty, and to support the tibetan people in their struggle for life and national identity. it is also worth noting that of the more than 3,000 buddhist monasteries in tibet, only a dozen or so remain. in the hope that our next resolution will finally have the desired effect, we must do everything we can to ensure that the chinese authorities immediately stop their blatant violations of civil rights.
on behalf of the ind/dem group, mr president! today's human rights debate is about tibet, where on november 23rd, at the behest of the chinese authorities, officers from the public security bureau closed one of the oldest tibetan buddhist monasteries, arresting both one of the main monks and four other clerics whose fate is unknown, where indoctrination, referred to as patriotic education, was introduced to boost tibetan clergy support for the chinese government while fighting the influence of the exiled dalai lama. tibet has been brutally occupied by china since 1950. but the tibetans did not give up their peaceful struggle for freedom, and yet at least one fifth of the people died from starvation, torture or execution. almost all of the more than 6,500 monasteries were destroyed. as pope john paul ii reminded us, when human rights are ignored or even trampled on, the seeds of inevitable destabilization, rebellion and violence are sown. it is essential to rebuild awareness of the dignity of every human being, created in the image and likeness of god, in order to find in it the solid foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. the government of the people's republic of china, on the other hand, even tightly controls religious practices and places of worship, limiting the number of monks and banishing especially those who are disobedient. it is worth noting that despite the enormity of the tibetan tragedy, the human rights violations raised in the european parliament concern the entire chinese people, who have been repressed for years, and where all expressions of social independence are suppressed. the methods and tools of torture and the brutal treatment of detainees, even for signs of dissatisfaction, are well documented, testifying to cruel barbarism. recently, china has shown an extremely dangerous fusion of communist and capitalist systems, where the laws of economics have become the only stimulus for development and where there is no place for human rights or moral standards. it is good to realize that, while the authorities in each country are responsible for the violation of human rights, the moral relativism of the western world, which insists on preferring human rights, is also partly responsible, while the huge consumer market and cheap labour, especially from re-education through labour camps, is becoming a powerful temptation for companies from almost all over the world, and the prospect of huge profits allows attention to be diverted from the tragedy of prisoners and the creation of a materialism that is heading for the abyss, creating misery and hell on earth for the few and for the rich. so we call for an end to the treatment of china as a big labor camp and a cheap labor camp, and for human rights to be respected, not just in tibet and hong kong, but in all of china.
, on behalf of the pse group . mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw attention to the dangerous tendency in russia of president putin's system to use the prosecution and the judiciary for political struggle. on december 9 this year, russian prosecutors charged the bank nieftianoj with money laundering and tax fraud. the bank's board is headed by boris nemtsov, one of russia's most accomplished liberal politicians, who has played a key role in building the opposition to president putin, especially in the run-up to the upcoming 2008 presidential elections, which will determine the future course of democracy in russia. boris nemtsov, in a speech to a newsletter published by my parliamentary office in november of this year, speaks of the danger of building state-monopoly capitalism in russia and sees the process now, i quote, of "russian lukashenko". the european union should abolish the requirement for russians to have visas to enter the countries of the union. the abolition of visas is a guarantee for russian civil society to democratize russia.
mr. chairman, please! it is a pity that we are discussing the issue of human rights violations in russia on thursday afternoon, when we are devoting a lot of time to tunisia - in the plenary of parliament and with the media - on wednesday. one of the fundamental values of the european union, which is the basis of democracy, is freedom of speech and thought. this is reflected in the activities of hundreds of thousands of ngos, which are the third most powerful force in europe. unfortunately, we are witnessing the introduction of laws in russia that are foreign and incomprehensible to us europeans. russia is moving further and further away from democratic standards, and we cannot stand by and watch the basic rights being curtailed in a country that has the status of a privileged state. we cannot be indifferent to the blatantly anti-democratic changes. access to foreign funds for russian ngos will be hampered or even prevented. the new restrictions are expected to affect as many as 450,000 organizations in russia. the russian federation has adopted measures to restrict the participation of foreign companies in the russian federation. the new law prohibits the activities of branches of representative offices of international and foreign organizations in russia on the existing basis. this means that they will have to close their existing branches and apply for a new organisation independent of their parent. foreigners who are not permanently registered in russia will lose the right to form social organizations and will not have the right to sit on their boards or be their members. the arguments of some russian politicians that ngos are a tool of third countries in their foreign policy towards russia are absurd and ridiculous to the democratic system. this attitude is condemned and strongly opposed by the european union, and is a manifestation of the growing xenophobia among russia's political elites. the number of 450 000 ngos in russia and their activity testify to the popularity of this sphere of public and social life in russia. the european union should support this manifestation of civil society.
mr. chairman, please! i wish that these merry christmas wishes would reach the ethiopians, although i think for many of them it will be a sad christmas. i say this because ethiopia, one of the two largest countries in africa, is also a largely christian country, with christian roots. i think this is one of the additional reasons why a number of countries of the european union, also of christian origin, should defend human rights in this country. i hope that the commissioner will not today be like an african animal, an ostrich that hides its head in the sand, that he will speak boldly about the will and determination of the european commission, the authorities of the european union, to stand up for human rights in a country where they are, of course, violated. with such faith in you, commissioner, i hope and the whole house, i wish you a merry christmas too.
