the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a position on the constitution, which highlights the following main points: it is good that the implementation of the three pillars of sustainable development is included among the objectives of the union and that environmental integration and a high level of human protection are recognised. it is a pity that the third part on the policies and functioning of the union is not in line with the principle of sustainable development, particularly in the fields of agriculture, cohesion, transport and trade policies. certain environmental measures, such as those of a fiscal nature and those relating to land use planning, quantitative water management and land use, could be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure but continue to be adopted by the council by unanimity. the adoption of measures to achieve high standards for the quality and safety of medicinal products and medical devices is welcome. measures relating to surveillance, early warning and combating serious crossborder threats to health are also positive and are part of the shared competences of the union and therefore subject to the ordinary legislative procedure. the introduction of a chapter on the democratic life of the union and the principle that these positions should be taken in the most transparent and closest to the citizens are welcome. the importance of the responsibility of the community institutions towards citizens and the possibility of access to the courts for these and their organisations, particularly in the field of the environment, should be emphasized. personally, mr president, i think that what remains to be seen is how the citizens of the union will accept the new constitutional arrangement, how this constitution, which is in some way made from the top down, will be accepted and lived from the bottom up, how the principle of equality of the states and the community method will be strictly enforced in practice. but that answer can only be given by history.
in writing. i congratulate mr nicholson on his excellent work on the recommendation on the extension of the peace programme. the peace programme, launched in 1995, is designed to strengthen peace and reconciliation in northern ireland and the border areas of the republic of ireland. following the success of the peace i programme and in order to continue the projects developed, the berlin council decided in 1999 to extend the programme for a further five years. i support the rapporteur's position that in this region of europe, which has suffered more than thirty years of violence, all efforts to maintain social integration, economic development, employment, urban and rural regeneration and crossborder cooperation should be encouraged. it is therefore essential to extend the implementation of the peace programme for a further 2 years, until the end of 2006, thus coinciding with the programming period of the structural funds and with a proposal to extend the annual community contribution to the international fund for ireland for the same period. the wider objective is to enable the actions financed by these two instruments for ireland to be aligned with the interventions carried out in the region under the eu cohesion fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr james nicholson's report on the northern ireland peace programme because i consider it of great importance that the european union should show solidarity with the irish peace process. our solidarity should be expressed by seeking to benefit the wide range of sectors, areas, groups and communities that have been particularly affected by violence, and by encouraging inter-community projects. the management of funding through local-based partnership structures and sector-specific non-governmental organisations will contribute to strengthening the bonds of peace and reconciliation that are fundamental to the stabilisation of northern ireland. i also consider the objective of financial coherence, which is the aim of extending the implementation of the peace programme for another two years, to be essential, since it is aimed at aligning the actions financed by this instrument and the international fund for ireland with the interventions carried out in the region under the eu cohesion fund.
in writing. in a europe which is able to build peace within its borders, phenomena such as those in northern ireland and the basque country are fortunately becoming more and more sporadic. however, given the seriousness of these cases of violence as an attempt to resolve political issues, they should continue to be condemned by the european union in the strongest and most unconditional terms. in the face of the ceasefire initiatives and the initiation of negotiations between the parties to the conflict in northern ireland, i believe that equal commitment should be required when it comes to supporting any initiatives which aim to contribute to the establishment of a lasting peace in those territories. in this context, i consider it advisable to maintain the financial support available to both northern ireland and the contiguous area under the sovereignty of the republic of ireland, and to extend the peace ii programme for two additional years.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the new treaty is a positive step forward from the institutional point of view, as everyone has stressed. the new treaty will make the union stronger, more effective, more democratic and closer to the citizens. but a constitution is first and foremost a com munity of values and a political project. the commission has already started with the constitutionalization of the charter of fundamental rights, aiming at a society which sees itself as a social market economy and where full employment is aimed at. they're not just words. these are the new objectives of the union, enshrined in article 3 of part one of the treaty, which must guide all its actions and policies. for example, article 185 of part iii on monetary policy expressly states that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the european system of central banks shall support the general economic policies of the union in order to contribute to the achievement of its objectives as defined in article 3 of part i. the horizontal clauses which frame the union's actions and policies provided for in part iii of the treaty are of particular importance. in articles 115 to 122 of part iii, the different union policies must take account of the promotion of equality between men and women, the protection of the environment and consumers, social rights, in particular employment, and the conditions necessary for public services or services of general economic interest to fulfil their missions. these examples illustrate how the new treaty strengthens the european social model, not by making any retreat from the past but by making new and important advances. it is therefore good news for the reaffirmation of the will that we must live in a society with high social protection and high environmental values.
mr president, among the various reasons for our opposition to this new treaty i would highlight the strengthening of centralism, federalism and the european bureaucracy, the insistence on policies which are becoming unique to all the member states of the union, regardless of their concrete situations, the deepening of neoliberalism and the militarisation of europe. the blind imposition of the stability pact, the european central bank and the single monetary and exchange rate policies in the euro area countries, regardless of the situation in each country, has resulted in the worsening of the social situation, the increase in inequalities resulting from the privatisation of strategic sectors and public services, accompanied by serious attacks on the rights of those who work. we also know the practice of these neoliberal policies in agriculture, fisheries and foreign trade policy, with economic setbacks, unemployment and the destruction of production in ever larger sectors of the countries with the weakest economies. but we cannot equally agree to a campaign to promote the new treaty, which is neither democratic nor pluralistic, based on the arguments of those who support it, forgetting the reasons of those who are against it, because they are fighting for a more democratic social europe, based on the principle of sovereign and equal states and committed to peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the real world in which we live is still far from being just and therefore requires a change in the traditional political models. what is new and fascinating about the european constitution is the link between the recognition of a common system of values, democratic values and human rights, and the recognition of a common system of authority; it is this remarkable link between a project of justice and a method of political sharing in the precise sense already indicated by the great philosopher immanuel kant. that is why the european constitution is both an act of political transformation and an act of moral transformation. because it is not satisfied with the common recognition of fundamental values but decides to share them in practice, because it gives way to the norm rather than to permanent negotiation, because it affirms the sovereignty of rights and the sublime dignity of man as the reason and end of european policies, because it articulates a programme of global justice that transcends nationalisms and complements the effectiveness of the internal constitutions of the states, because it brings together the modern european political identity in a system of universal values that welcomes all other identities, because it represents the feeling of belonging to a cosmopolitan and anthropocentric world, because it is the starting signal for a league of peoples in a more rational and more balanced world order, because it is the constitutional homeland in which all countries in europe recognize each other, in the sense of a new europe. i am writing today to the president of the european parliament and to the commissioner for institutional relations to set up a tv channel to broadcast parliament's proceedings and the future public proceedings of the european council to all the countries of the european union on a full-time basis. finally, my tribute to the rapporteurs from vigo and corbett.
mr president, by approving the corbett/mendez de vigo report, the european parliament will be making its last major contribution to the adoption of a constitutional text for europe. the existence of a european constitutional text marks the historic transition from a community of peoples and countries progressively united by ever closer economic ties to a genuine political community united by the desire for a common destiny. fifty years of a policy of prudent small steps have opened the way to a new reality based on common values, values of civilization which express a common european identity based on peace, democracy, human rights and economic and social progress. europe is not being built against the secular reality of the nations of our continent. europe is born of the free and enlightened desire not to allow the past to repeat itself and to ensure that its peoples are able to remain united in their own destiny in a future fraught with challenges. those sovereigntists who blame europe for the erosion of national sovereignty and see in this constitution the materialization of their superstate nightmare are making a profound error of analysis. economic, financial and technological globalisation, the emergence, now or in the future, of new global political and economic powers, are forcing europe to seek solutions that no longer exist at national level in order to defend, deepen and export the humanist project launched in the last century by the post-war social state of law. in a world marked by uncertainty, disorder and deregulation, europe's voice and leadership are increasingly needed by us and by others who follow our example and expect us to intervene on the major issues on the international agenda. but the opponents of this treaty are not the only sovereignty-loving people. others have to denounce it with a stern tone, denouncing its insufficiency and modesty of results or lack of ambition. they are the ones who refuse to recognise the important progress made because they insist on the futile exercise of comparing the constitutional text before us with the idealised versions of their dreams instead of comparing it with the existing treaties and with the nice process in particular.
mr president, the tragedy of the tsunami cannot mean less for the world powers and for europe than september 11. the asian tsunami should be the turning point for the world's highest priority: the prevention and fight against hunger and disease. so i'm going to ask you four questions: - do you think that the 450 million announced for reconstruction may or may not undermine programmes already decided for asia (as is the case for 150 million of the 450 announced)? - will you or will you not advocate debt cancellation for the tsunami-hit countries or just a moratorium? - will they get equal treatment to iraq or less than iraq? - i know . finally, commissioner louis michel proposed to the last council a more ambitious target than 0.7% for development. are you gonna reconsider this proposal or is she gonna have definitive lead?
the programme of this presidency is not a complete disappointment only because we no longer had high expectations as to its content. we regret that you have ignored fundamental issues. it says nothing about unemployment, despite its worsening. it does not undertake to take stock of the implementation of the euro in the 12 member states of the euro area, although the problems in most of these countries are worsening, particularly with the excessive appreciation of the euro. it does not undertake to insist on the review of the liberalization of trade in textiles and clothing, or at least to use safeguard clauses for more sensitive products. it makes no reference to the 60th anniversary of the defeat of fascism. as regards the lisbon strategy, it does not draw the right conclusions from the consequences of the present situation. on the contrary, it insists on the same path of liberalization and privatization, of job insecurity, of attack on public services. the commission also proposes that the stability pact be repealed and replaced by a pact for social progress and employment, in line with the objectives of full employment, sustained economic development and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. the proposal aims to update the minimum amounts of compulsory insurance in the framework of community harmonization in this field in the so-called motor insurance directive. the main difficulty with this proposal is to strike a balance between the need to improve the cover of protection for victims - cover for personal and property damage - in the event of a car accident (which is at a relatively low value) and the reflection of this improvement in risk cover in the increase in insurance premiums, when the 'prices' charged by insurers are not controlled. the general problem of harmonization is also apparent here, where there are different economic realities in each country, which must be taken into account, particularly in the southern countries, such as portugal, which have always had reservations on this matter. portugal has had a transitional period to adapt its national legislation. the common position provides for a new transitional period of five years, which seems more balanced. however, the proposals to increase the minimum amounts to eur 1 million per victim and eur 5 million per claim, irrespective of the number of victims, especially in the second case, are excessive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report recommendation for second reading manuel medina ortega (a6-0073/2004) - civil liability arising from the use of motor vehicles. the development of the internal market and the growth of community traffic have for years called for an update of the rules in force. the protection of victims of motor vehicle accidents by compulsory insurance had therefore to be updated and strengthened, and greater convergence in the interpretation and application of the directive by the member states had to be ensured. the fifth directive will make it easier to obtain effective and valid motor insurance outside the country of residence and to sell or buy a vehicle in another member state. the text also increases the legal protection of accident victims. i also think it is essential to stress parliament's proposal for a transitional period of up to five years to allow member states to adapt to the minimum coverage amounts.
in writing. motor vehicle liability insurance is of particular importance to european citizens, both as policyholders and as victims of an accident. by updating and improving the protection of victims of road accidents through compulsory insurance; by filling in the gaps and clarifying provisions of the directives in order to ensure greater convergence in their interpretation and application by the member states; and by providing solutions to the problems which frequently arise in order to ensure a more efficient internal market in the field of motor insurance - the draft legislative resolution contributes to the modernisation and updating of european insurance law while at the same time safeguarding the interests of consumers who are now covered by higher cover. the legislative resolution thus reflects the spirit of strengthening the protection of victims of road accidents by making it easier for the injured party to obtain the compensation due. i hope, however, that some final flexibility will prevent a sharp and abrupt increase in insurance premiums. i also think it is of the utmost importance to develop legislative efforts to avoid the use of delaying practices to avoid assuming the liability guaranteed in a risk transfer contract. my vote is in accordance with the consensus reached yesterday at the trialogue.
in writing. this report gives a positive and balanced favourable opinion of the treaty, but it is regrettable that it excludes the opinion of the committee on fisheries of this parliament, the only european forum with specific competence in fisheries which has discussed the amendments introduced to the conservation of marine biological resources. as the committee on fisheries concluded, 'the inclusion of the conservation of marine biological resources in the context of the other exclusive competences of the eu specified in the draft constitution is anomalous and unjustified'. unlike other matters where this treaty has made profound changes, marine biological resources are not an institutional domain reserved for politicians. they concern the maritime communities, fishermen, scientists, environmentalists, who should never have been ignored. i would remind you that a poll of portuguese public opinion found that only 4% of citizens favoured this solution, compared with 86% in favour of a shared or national competence. the conservation of marine biological resources cannot be the exclusive responsibility of anyone. it is a duty of citizenship for all, and first of all for those who have these resources as a way of life, which cannot be ignored by the european institutions and the representatives of the states. i hope that this "unjustified anomaly" will be corrected shortly.
in writing. i welcome the quality of the report on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. while i regret that the constitution has fallen short of the ambitions of the european parliament and has enshrined controversial issues such as the issue, particularly for madeira and the azores, of the union's exclusive competence in the field of the conservation of marine biological resources, against which various opinions have been expressed in the european convention, as well as the committee on fisheries in its opinion on the constitution, i recognise that it represents a positive commitment and an improvement on the existing treaties, as advocated by the co-rapporteurs, and constitutes an important step towards the realisation of the european project, both from the perspective of the states and european citizens. the treatment accorded by the constitution to the status of the outermost regions is also noteworthy: the possibility of modulating the application of all european policies to the outermost regions is not only maintained and reinforced, but it is also confirmed that this article constitutes a valid and sufficient legal basis for the development of a genuine policy for the outermost regions. i am voting in favour of the adoption of the constitution and calling for its ratification, and i am expressing my commitment to the campaign for its implementation.
in writing. the vote in the european parliament today on the draft new treaty is part of the sad process of mystification and propaganda surrounding the so-called european constitution, in a word: a manoeuvre. the european parliament has no legitimacy to 'approve' treaties, as is claimed in paragraph 6 of this resolution. the right-wing (epp) and social democratic (pse) majority in parliament are not naively and fraternally trying to spread the false idea that the draft treaty has been 'approved' by the ep - as some media will erroneously report and, it should be stressed, before any national referendum on this draft has been held. the intention is clear: that the vote today will be used as another means of pressure and propaganda in favour of the (mis) so-called european constitution in the process of ratification, or no! by the states, and that they will seek to interfere in a competence which belongs only to them. it is unacceptable that this vote was accompanied by music, the launching of balloons, the placing of banners and the unfurling of flags 'with the aforementioned keywords and 'yes' in several languages', silencing any criticism of this project.
in writing. i congratulate my colleagues richard corbett and íñigo méndez of vigo on the excellent report they have produced on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the important consolidation of the status of the outermost regions welcomed in the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. the treaty establishing a constitution for europe guarantees the exceptional status of the outermost regions, i.e. their horizontal/transversal dimension, their derogating nature and the sufficiency of the legal basis for the adoption of all measures specifically aimed at the outermost regions. in addition, i was very pleased to see that the intergovernmental conference included the reference to european laws and framework laws among the legislative instruments which allow for the adoption of measures in favour of the outermost regions.
in writing. the constitutional treaty is a compromise text which must be evaluated by what it actually contains and not by what some - both federalists and sceptics - want to find in it. in view of the fact that in a globalised world portugal has everything to gain from belonging to a regional bloc with the characteristics of the european union, i find here, as in any compromise text, aspects with which i agree and others with which i am not satisfied. on the positive side, i would like to highlight the simplification achieved by the unification of the treaties, the clearer distinction between national and european competences, the reinforcement of the role of national parliaments and the guarantee that the union only has powers conferred by the member states. the fact that this treaty represents a stabilizing moment in the process of revising the treaties also brings security and stability. on the side of the aspects i do not share are the absence in the preamble of any reference to the european judeo-christian heritage, the end of the rotation of the member states in the presidency of the council, the reduction, in due course, of the composition of the commission and the creation of the potentially conflicting figure of the european foreign minister. on balance, my vote is in favour.
in writing. i have often criticized the cut with the best practice of the eu, the source of its success: the "policy of small steps", the line of schuman and the founding fathers, increasingly overtaken by a whirlwind of steps not directly related to popular feeling. i would prefer to continue along the road of a europe that is actually united in diversity, respectful of the national democracies from which it springs, rather than contribute to the simulacrum of a proto-continental state that few people want, that the peoples have not asked for and that nobody really celebrates. i have no difficulty in sharing the generous vision of a european constitutional text. but then, after consulting the people, it was really prepared by full democratic processes, really participatory and representative, interacting with the citizens, in an assembly expressly elected for this purpose, which would be followed by the igc. i have always been struck by the climate of siege and manoeuvre, the lack of loyalty towards citizens, the fact that one often says one thing and actually does another, and even the gallantry with which the rule of law was trampled, an emblematic sign that 'anything goes' as long as it goes in a certain direction. the european parliament's pompous declaration that it 'approved the constitutional treaty' echoes this. it's not our jurisdiction, and it's legally wrong for us to say it. i wish it was better. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. the adoption of the constitutional treaty by this house is a historic moment because of the role played by the ep throughout the process. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour because i firmly believe that we are taking a step forward in consolidating european social policy. the social rights of citizens are clearly strengthened by the incorporation into the constitution of the eu charter of fundamental rights recognising that citizens are at the heart of the european construction. economic and social cohesion is reaffirmed as a fundamental objective of the eu. new standards are introduced on achieving a high level of employment, combating social exclusion and discrimination, promoting social justice, social protection, gender equality, a high level of education and health, promoting sustainable development and respect for services of general interest. on the international scene, the eu's role in fighting poverty eradication and promoting sustainable development and fair trade is also being strengthened. furthermore, new provisions will facilitate the participation of citizens, social partners and representatives of civil society in eu deliberations. after more than half a century of european integration and numerous treaties, the european constitution is by far the most ... (the minutes were approved)
mr president, i thank the presidency for briefing parliament just after last week's council. the occurrence of the catastrophe meant that global security had failed, and, this time, terrorists cannot be blamed. it was caused by nature and global unpreparedness. both the un and the eu are taking action but they must learn a lesson from this. we need to make global the early-warning system that could have saved lives; the eu's galileo system could help. we need to invest in the union's civil protection system, coordinating and strengthening prevention and the rapid-response capability for all member states. we need to make use of the union's military logistics – not just for member states – to assist in the accessible areas affected and to invest in capacities and their rapid implementation in similar emergencies in the future. we need to follow closely and politically the reconstruction in aceh and in sri lanka to prevent the resumption of war. finally, the eu and its member states need to honour commitments under the millennium declaration and engage all rich nations in fighting the tsunamis of poverty, which kill hundreds of thousands every month through hunger, disease and war, in particular in africa. i should like to conclude by saying that we should not let the dead die in vain. this tragedy must be the turning point for global governance and for a just globalisation.
madam president, i am sorry to have to speak, but the sitting did not start at the scheduled time - the time i was here - and since i have had another debate in the meantime, i can only now ask you to accept the debate on the very important question of textiles and to give any explanation, however brief, on this subject.
on behalf of the group. mr president, we are dealing with a serious political and labour problem which has merited our most vigorous opposition. as early as 30 june last year, the president of my group, mr francis wurtz, wrote to the presidents of the commission and the european parliament that the brutal decision to dismiss 43 language teachers from the european commission on indefinite contracts was not in keeping with the commitments made jointly by the commission, the council and the european parliament in the trilogue of 18 march 1997. it is recalled that the agreement stipulates that 'the representatives of the three institutions undertake not to call into question the contractual framework within which language training is organised in the commission and the council as regards staff currently under contracts of unlimited duration' (end of quote). what credibility will such institutional arrangements have in the future if one of the parties unilaterally calls them into question on the grounds that they comply with belgian law? how credible can an institution be that claims to combat social dumping when it argues for budgetary savings through the outsourcing of services, calling into question the social rights of people with 10, 20 or 30 years of service, treating them as disposable products that are thrown away after use, even ignoring the real budgetary savings of about 25% that these workers have achieved through unpaid work. how can the commission claim to be a defender of social dialogue, the rights of workers, women and the family when it dismisses, without any prior information, without any consultation and without any alternative to employment, people who for the most part have family responsibilities and are of an age which makes it difficult to find new employment? is this the model of management and social europe that the commission claims to defend when it calls into question the right to employment and its social responsibilities? is this the example you want to set of a responsible public administration, committed to language and cultural training, when it dismisses highly educated people with recognized professional and cultural skills and proposes to hire others at such low prices that it even runs the risk of exploiting teachers? why is the new executive committee waiting to reinstate these workers who were wrongfully dismissed by the previous executive? our group will be addressing the president of the commission, mr barroso, directly to see how he is doing... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we have seen a number of shocking problems being raised here this morning, both in the professional, human and legal aspects. i agree with what my colleagues have said and for the sake of brevity i will also mention other foreseeable political consequences of the situation that has arisen, which may be negative. multilingualism will be undermined if the work of competent professionals who are experienced in the difficult and complex ways of their activity is abandoned in favour of outsourcing with problematic contours, questionable experience and dubious effectiveness, for which, moreover, no one can guarantee a minimum of quality for the achievement of the objectives in view and for which precise information does not even seem to be available on recruitment conditions and guarantees of efficiency. this is a matter of concern to all of us, not just to teachers but also to what is happening in this parliament. it is also worth paying attention to the situation of interpreters, particularly freelancers, who have been providing highly qualified professional services for many years and now seem to be on the verge of being dismissed or recruited much less frequently. the solution of any financial problems cannot be found in any of these situations in the way that it has been found, and the building of europe as we want it will be nothing but a fiction comparable to what the commission is now presenting to us as the trilogue by not considering it binding on the parties involved. this too, with multilingualism, will be very serious.
in writing. the warnings about climate change are repeated worldwide, and the responsibility for this is undeniable: an economic system that does not respect the balance between man and nature and the measures it takes, especially in the more developed countries, including the united states, which alone is responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. these changes are the consequence and expose the unsustainability of the capitalist production system, its savage predation of natural resources, its complete subordination to immediate profit, instead of betting on long-term planning, which takes into account the preservation of conditions for the survival of humanity. the response that is required should not be governed by the laws of the system that originated the problem. the creation of an emissions trading system allows the most powerful countries to remain the biggest polluters, tying down the countries with the weakest economies. more public investment is needed, both in research into new and more efficient clean energy sources and in aid for the implementation of existing ones.
in writing. the environmental consequences, particularly the climatic consequences, of human action must be studied, known and, consequently, minimised when they are negative. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. in this context, the role played by the european union in the international efforts to combat climate change should be duly acknowledged and welcomed. but it is not enough to have good intentions or to sign protocols if they are not actually complied with, and especially if there is no way of effectively sanctioning their non-compliance. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, because i believe it meets these concerns.
in writing. the continuing intensification of human activity has led to a substantial increase in greenhouse gases, which is expected to result in additional average warming of the earth's surface and atmosphere, potentially adversely affecting natural ecosystems and humanity. in this regard, the widest possible cooperation between all countries and their participation in an effective and appropriate international response, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities and their respective economic and social capabilities, is important. last november, in my explanation of vote on the eu strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change (cop-10), i wrote that i thought it was of the utmost importance 'that the eu delegation to the conference ... take a leading role in the negotiations, seeking to alert its international partners to the need to protect the climate'. because i believe that the objectives i have set have been partly achieved and because the change in the earth's climate and its negative effects should be a common concern of mankind, i voted in favour.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of this resolution, to which we have contributed a resolution of our own and amendments, although unfortunately not all of them have been adopted. we stress, in the proposals we have put forward, our insistence on the initiatives needed to cancel the bilateral and multilateral external debt of the developing countries as quickly as possible, starting with the countries affected by the tsunami and the poorest and most vulnerable countries, and to restore to them all the means they need to develop. we also insist on the need for the developed countries to accelerate the achievement of the development financing targets set out in the monterrey convention and to achieve a rate of development aid of at least 0.7% of gdp. we must put an end to the hypocrisy and cynicism of those who channel astronomical sums of money into the war in iraq but who have difficulty in mobilizing the necessary financial resources to support the victims of these tragedies and to build a more just world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution in question because it meets my concerns in this matter. tragedies sometimes have a virtue: they prove that human nature (and the nature of institutions) is also capable of the best. beyond all the unspeakable misery that has been experienced in southeast asia, past, present and future suffering, there are also images of world solidarity on a scale never seen before. the globalization of everything, even of suffering, gives the tragic this grandeur. the willingness to help shown by all of us, and in our particular case by the european union as a whole and by each of the 25 member states, is therefore commendable. but only if the promises of aid correspond to the actual aid. this time, largely thanks to the efforts of its citizens, europe has lived up to its size. it is hoped that this moment will serve as an example. finally, it should also be an opportunity to look at the problems of the least developed countries from a different perspective, with a different approach and with a different determination. so that the tragic doesn't just produce shock.
in writing. the scale of the asian disaster and the material and human losses inflicted on the affected populations leave us with a heavy heart. but discouragement must be overcome by the imperative to help the affected populations, not only in immediate aid to the countries affected, but by establishing mechanisms of cooperation and long-term assistance in order to prevent and avoid similar disasters. in this connection, i consider it extremely important to set up a european union rapid reaction civilian body to improve, improve and make more effective european aid in situations of humanitarian crisis. in all this nightmare, we must pay particular attention to the children who have been orphaned, not only because they are the most affected, but because they are vulnerable to abduction and physical and sexual abuse. i therefore call for all the means available to the european union to enable prompt and rapid action to be taken to protect child victims. i would like to express my sincere and proper appreciation to all the citizens and governments who have contributed generously and promptly to the financing of humanitarian aid to the martyred peoples.
in writing. paradoxically, it is in times of distress for others that the member states of the european union are able to speak with one voice on the international scene: the voice of solidarity. i voted in favour of this resolution because i considered that in the face of the terrible tsunami that has affected asia and the indian ocean, the eu and its member states could not remain indifferent to the human and material losses of this dramatic event of unprecedented gravity. as a member of the committee on budgets, i welcome the interinstitutional agreement reached which allows the emergency funds and the flexibility instruments to be used and thus to unlock significant amounts of money, even though they are not initially budgeted. in addition to expressing its sympathy and regret, the eu and its member states will make public aid of more than €1.5 billion available in the short term. from a logistical point of view, this development also underlines the urgency for the eu to improve its civilian intervention force for humanitarian operations. in addition to this initial emergency aid, the eu will also play an active role in the mid- and long-term rehabilitation phase. finally, in addition to these public subsidies, i cannot but express my satisfaction and pride... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. following on from previous european parliament resolutions, this resolution expresses the intention to "strengthen the partnership" between the us and the european union (eu), restoring and renewing the effort for the sharing of influence and dominance between both capitalist blocs. in a clear sign that what unites them is more than what divides them, the eu is playing the role of supporting the american big brother, which has historically been in its debt. the hypocrisy and cynicism on both sides of the atlantic - which is also apparent in the recent case of support for the countries affected by the asian tsunami, which is visible when we compare this support with the money spent on war - is manifested in the power to decide who can and cannot have weapons and what kind of weapons, who are the democratic organizations and countries and how to define the framework for the political domination of institutions such as the security council. they seek to agree positions to ensure the legal status quo for world domination, overcoming the differences regarding the attack and invasion of iraq, the violation of international law, the international criminal court and the non-rectification of the kyoto protocol, proposing the creation of a "community of action" ... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that after the american elections europe will receive the president of the united states at a time when, objectively, the conditions are right for an improvement in relations between the two parties. the situation in iraq, still tense and dangerous, is better today. there are dozens of parties registered to contest the elections, kidnappings are increasingly a matter of crime and attacks are less regular. it is now a question of deconstructing the future. in ukraine, we had the same concerns, we stood up for my values and principles and we got the same result. in the middle east, after the pa elections, we are in a position to be on the same side. as for iran, the united states is waiting to see how effective the agreement reached by the eu is, and here some difficulties may arise. finally, the recent catastrophe in asia has prompted both sides of the atlantic to act in exactly the same way and with the same determination. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity. we are, in every way, two shores of the same ocean. different, but united by the same essence.
in writing. the free world as we know it would be nothing more than a distant mirage if it had not been for the close and cooperative relationship between europe and the united states, which liberated our continent from the totalitarian yoke of nazism and communism. more than a mere historical curiosity, this relationship is today unavoidable and indispensable in the face of the common challenges and opportunities that confront us. i therefore deplore with particular vehemence those who try to turn allies into antagonists or competitors. i believe that the very history that records our common victory today would be a poor judgment of allies who, having defeated their most visible enemies, bet on facing off when the threat becomes diffuse, almost invisible. the fact that we do not always agree should be an incentive to promote dialogue and not to encourage sterile and counterproductive tensions, which only benefit those who have always wanted to see us divided. i am pleased that the same european parliament which has just been swayed by anti-american rhetoric is now showing its responsibility by declaring its willingness to cooperate in solving global problems and to welcome president bush on his next visit to the community institutions. by walking together, we will go further.
in writing. the external debt of developing countries is a mechanism to exploit them and subordinate them to the creditor countries and international financial institutions and the economic interests they represent. it is illegitimate and immoral, because it is a serious obstacle to development, it diverts vast sums from the basic needs of these countries and their peoples, most of whom devote more resources to debt repayment than to the total expenditure on health and education, preventing them from dealing with diseases such as aids and tuberculosis or with problems such as illiteracy, among many others. the debt maintenance is unacceptable. it is noted that the indebted countries have already paid more than seven times what they owed in 1982 and have nevertheless seen their debt increase fourfold. they still have, for the most part, a history of colonial exploitation which makes them creditors rather than debtors to the industrialized countries. the persistence of this situation is all the more incomprehensible after the cancellation of 80% of iraq's debt, imposed by the occupying military power, the usa, and according to calculations of participation in the exploitation of the country's wealth and the lucrative "business" of reconstruction. the cancellation of the external debt of developing countries is therefore essential if a fairer world is to be built.
in writing. the reduction of the debt burden of developing countries is a worthwhile option, which shows - and should show - a genuine desire on the part of the international bodies and the richer countries to contribute actively to the economic growth and development of those countries, and also to a more balanced sharing of the costs of this process. in addition, in contrast to those who advocate the unrestricted opening of frontiers to all immigration, the most correct, effective and just policy is to seek to promote development in the countries most in need, rather than promoting the desertification of their most capable human resources. in this context, it should also be recognised that, as regards the past, in many cases this debt has its origins in reprehensible policy choices; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). i therefore support procedures such as the one in question, which reduce the debt burden of developing countries. but this must be accompanied by the fact that the resources thus freed up will be spent on sustainable development policies, and not on policies which cannot and should not be supported.
in writing. community cooperation policy must promote the economic and social growth of developing countries and their progressive integration into the world economy. it should be borne in mind that the countries to be assisted must receive increased attention, both in terms of improving the processes of democratic consolidation and in terms of progress in respect for human rights. economic growth in developing countries must be people-centred. only in this way will we be able to eradicate poverty and ensure the growth of their economies, in order to reduce their external debt requirements and to meet their obligations. we should welcome the nepad initiative and the measures announced at the g8 summit, because, in addition to being a considerable effort for the economic progress of the developing countries, they are aimed at the promotion and consolidation of democracy, good economic management, the promotion of peace and security in the developing countries. within the framework of the conditions mentioned, i believe that the process of reducing the burden of public debt must be accelerated and deepened, allowing developing countries to allocate resources to basic services and thus achieve the millennium development goals.
in writing. the recent electoral process in ukraine has two aspects in particular. on the one hand, the ability of the majority of the ukrainian people to fight for democracy, freedom and a model of society which is, in essence, identical to the model of the european union. in this struggle, the name of victor yushchenko stands out, of course, as the first, but the first among equals. he was the head of a solid, cohesive body united by a purpose. on the other hand, it is clear that the commitment of the community institutions and european leaders, at community and national level, played a very important role in the outcome of this process, which otherwise could have resulted in a very serious situation. it is clear from these two aspects that expectations have rightly been created among the ukrainian people as regards their future relationship with the european union. it is therefore up to ukraine now to take a course which corresponds to the clear popular wish. and the european union must be consistent with the expectations that have been generated. it is this understanding, expressed in the resolution in question, which led me to vote in favour of it.
in writing. in the context of the election observation mission i was part of on 26, 27 and 28 december, i was able to note the circumstances which led to the repeat of the second round of the presidential elections, and i was pleased to note the desire for closer ties with the eu expressed by the winning candidate. i have had the opportunity, together with other members, to write to the president of parliament to try to make him aware of this reality, in particular by asking that the president-elect of ukraine be allowed to address our house soon. i hope that the process of transferring power will proceed swiftly and correctly, allowing for democratic normalisation and reducing the levels of anxiety and tension which i have nevertheless not seen exceed the tolerable during the electoral period. i think that it cannot be ignored that ukraine is a country of strategic importance to russia. i believe that the eu's steadfastness in defending democracy and freedom should not be confused with or used to antagonize a neighbour of its importance. the political stabilisation of ukraine should rather serve to encourage russians to pursue the path of convergence on those common values. but at the same time i believe that, since this is the free will of the ukrainian people, we must open up the prospect of their joining the eu.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i would like to join my voice with that of my predecessor and with those who have done everything possible to express our indignation at the continuing and worsening violation of human rights in iran. it's only been three months since october, but we've been forced to return to this house because the deteriorating situation has brought it about. i would appeal to those members who want to back down on this resolution to withdraw these oral amendments and to withdraw this proposal to make this text less forceful, because what is at stake here is whether or not we are sending a sufficiently readable message to the iranian regime, whether or not we are responding to the regime's latest action which was to call the police the nobel peace prize winner. this kind of appeasement will have the worst results. i would therefore urge that these proposals be withdrawn and that we vote unanimously on this text as it stands.
in writing. the conclusion of this protocol, as has been the case since may 2004, clearly shows the overall impact of the enlargement of the union. on the other hand, these are protocols whose need is obvious, because of the obligatory legal uniformity and harmony of the enlarged union. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. this proposal for a recommendation aims at the conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and between the european union and croatia, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of hungary, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. it is also a consequence of the recent enlargement to 10 more member states. the accession of these countries implies a series of legal adjustments to put them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competitive fields. i naturally voted in favour.
in writing. the conclusion of this protocol, as has been the case since may 2004, clearly shows the overall impact of the enlargement of the union. on the other hand, these are protocols whose need is obvious, because of the obligatory legal uniformity and harmony of the enlarged union. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. this recommendation seeks parliamentary consent to the conclusion of an additional protocol to the association agreement between the european economic community and the republic of chile as regards the participation, as contracting parties, of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and the slovak republic following their accession to the european union. it is a necessary consequence of the recent enlargement. the accession of these new member states entails a series of legal adjustments to put them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competitive fields. i voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement reached between what the commission initially considered ideal and the funds made available by the council, within the necessary budgetary constraints, is balanced. that is why i voted in favour. most importantly, however, the econtent programme - and similar initiatives - should be an effective means of furthering the information and knowledge society.
in writing. the multiannual community programme to make digital content in europe more accessible, usable and exploitable, in addition to contributing to the lisbon strategy and to strengthening europe's competitiveness in the knowledge economy, allows for satisfactory results in terms of economic growth, job creation, innovation and consumer choice. this programme is aimed at the end-user, whether the individual citizen, the student, the researcher, the professional seeking to increase his knowledge or the 're-user' seeking to improve and exploit digital content resources as a profit-making activity. the ongoing community project, in addition to seeking to facilitate access to information for users, aims to transform the content distribution sector and reinvent the way in which companies, public bodies and governments interact with each other and with the general public. it is therefore important for the european economy and its development that the budget allocated to the programme for making digital content more accessible be increased from eur 135 million to eur 149 million, thus giving the community action programme a better chance of success. i voted yes.
in writing. my vote in favour of this joint resolution is based primarily on the fact that i share the idea that the situation in the middle east, and in particular in palestine, is a unique opportunity for the peace process to be resumed at last. and in that sense, the balance on the palestinian electoral process is positive. there are, however, aspects from which i must distance myself. the international community, and the european union in particular, cannot treat the state of israel, the palestinian authority and the so-called 'palestinian armed groups' as equals. there is no possible identity between a democratic state and terrorist groups. this confusion is not acceptable.
in writing. the middle east conflict has been a frequent source of instability and tension, dragging the international community into successive attempts to appease the political and economic deterioration that the region has been facing for several years. the arrival of abu mazen as president of the palestinian national authority brings a breath of fresh air to the relaunch of the diplomatic process in the region. the new palestinian leader has the opportunity to launch a new political dialogue with israel, based on democratic, fair and mutually respectful criteria, where terrorism is the target to be defeated and effective and lasting peace is the goal to be achieved. in this new era which is now beginning it is also important that israel gives signs of hope, goodwill and cooperation, developing its just and legitimate fight against terrorism within the framework of respect for the principles of international law. i voted in favour, in the hope that peace, together with democracy - long established on the israeli side and now emerging in palestine - can finally take root in that troubled part of the world.
in writing. in commemorating the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the auschwitz concentration camp, we remember and condemn all the horrors of the tragic holocaust. we cannot and must not forget this tragedy, which is one of the most shameful and painful pages in the history of our continent. it is a lesson for us all in the future, in combating the extremes that lead to intolerance, discrimination and racism. i support the idea of making 27 december the day on which we remember the holocaust and pay tribute to its victims throughout europe. i am concerned about the growing signs of anti-semitism and racism, as well as extremist and xenophobic parties. it is the responsibility of the eu and the international community as a whole to promote and protect fully and effectively civil and fundamental rights in the union and in the world. the union must remain true to the values which are its common heritage and work to ensure the principles of tolerance and non-discrimination and to promote social, economic and political integration. it is essential to restart discussions on the draft framework decision on racism and xenophobia, as an integrated approach, including both preventive and repressive measures, is essential for an effective and equivalent fight across the eu.
in writing. sixty years after the liberation of auschwitz, little more can be said than to remember, incessantly. otherwise, we're left with silence. in each image we are reminded of the horror of human complicity, and the eternal risk that it could happen again, because we do not know the end of evil. that is why all the mechanisms for promoting peace and freedom are so necessary. because man, in the best of times, is always capable of the worst, as history proves.
in writing. today we celebrate one of the most disturbing dates for mankind: the liberation of the auschwitz-birkenau death camp. a day of joy for survivors, liberators and the entire civilized world; and, simultaneously, a day of profound pain and consternation at the brutal realization of the tremendous scale of the horror executed. auschwitz can no longer be forgotten. it is not a question of the future. nor can it be tolerated that our common history is rewritten in such a way that the constant, methodical and premeditated slaughter of millions of innocent people is ignored or whitewashed. i believe that there is still a great deal to be investigated as to the true extent of the crimes committed in the second world war. i am also concerned about the increase in anti-semitic attacks and demonstrations, which are being perpetrated and incited mainly by far-left and radical islamic organisations, as well as by the far-right nazis. i strongly deplore such acts. europe, which claims to be tolerant, must show character and be uncompromising in its fight against such organizations and incidents. the nazi atrocities, if they serve any purpose, let it be to remember this darkest side of history and thus to arm us morally for the fight so that barbarities like those of auschwitz are never repeated in the biography of humanity.
the lack of rain in portugal in recent months is causing a major crisis in both the autumn-winter crops and the animal feed, and in the lack of expectations for the spring-summer crops. however, the emergence of the so-called 'blue tongue' in animals and the necessary quarantines, seizures and movement bans have also aggravated the problems of trade in animals, forcing producers and farmers to keep animals for longer than expected, to feed them at increased costs and to face cash crises that many cannot afford. i therefore ask you, mr president, to alert the commission to the seriousness of the situation in agriculture in portugal and to the need to pay animal and plant aid in advance. the lack of pastures due to drought is also causing problems and therefore grazing on areas prohibited by community rules should be allowed in order to reduce animal deaths.
in recent weeks, the european commission has taken decisions on two major issues: the strategic guidelines for its mandate and the reform of the lisbon strategy. both decisions emphasize what is most important for the european union in the present circumstances: the relaunch of economic growth and job creation. i do not understand the debate about who comes first, economic growth or employment. it's simple for me. jobs are created in companies. companies can only grow and develop if there is a climate of confidence, a general willingness to undertake in an investment-friendly environment. this way of life, this culture, will be a reality if there is the capacity to implement the right economic policies. and it will all happen so much faster the more the member states are committed to putting the necessary reforms into practice. this is the only way in which we can maintain and even develop the european social model. economic dynamism cannot therefore be seen as the enemy of social protection; on the contrary, it is its main ally. but my concern is something else, and it has to do with setting priorities and clarity in the allocation of responsibilities. it was precisely their absence that justified the reform of the lisbon strategy. it is now the responsibility of the member states to translate the reform momentum proposed by the commission into concrete policy action. we are faced with the absolute necessity of reforms which, in most cases, are not favourable to public opinion, but which are what europe needs. these reforms will only be successful if they are explained, if necessary, to the last detail. only then can they be understood and accepted. i would like to conclude by saying that in my opinion it is worthwhile to study the advantages of leaving the office environment and going out into the streets, starting with ourselves, the members of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice is one of the most pressing challenges facing the european union today, and in particular the need to ensure, as we set out in the hague programme, high standards of quality in justice throughout the union, without prejudice to the plurality of legal systems existing in the 25 member states. in accordance with the hague programme, as in tampere, the cornerstone of the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice is mutual recognition, as commissioner frattini reminded us here just a moment ago. but for mutual recognition to exist, it is essential that there be mutual trust. and as our colleague mr di pietro has just pointed out, mutual trust is not a matter of faith. mutual trust requires building and requires its actual existence. the truth is that we have to recognize that among our 25 member states, among the judicial authorities of our 25 member states, that mutual trust does not exist to a sufficient degree. this mutual trust needs to be strengthened. that is why i am starting this own-initiative report by proposing a mechanism for mutual evaluation between the different member states. of course, a mechanism that respects the independence of the judiciary. but a mechanism that involves national parliaments and that involves the judiciary's own management bodies so that we can have a rich assessment of the different views on the quality of criminal justice in each of these member states. secondly, i think it is essential that this assessment be an objective one and in order to be objective i propose the creation of a charter on the quality of criminal justice. a charter of quality which must be constructed on the basis of the interpretation of the right to a judge in the european declaration of human rights, the charter of fundamental rights and in accordance with the case law of the european court of human rights, the court of justice of the european communities, but also the recommendations of the united nations and the council of europe. this quality charter should be an objective reference framework for assessing the different criminal justice systems in the different member states so that we can disseminate good practice, benchmark and have high quality standards for all european citizens anywhere in the union. however, we all know that, in addition to mutual recognition, we cannot do without a minimum degree of harmonization. the council defined the criteria for the harmonization of substantive criminal law. in our report we propose that we should support the council's proposal. the council invited the commission to prepare for harmonization as soon as possible in respect of all the crimes provided for in the constitutional treaty so that, by the time the constitutional treaty enters into force, the preparatory work will have been completed and the council, together with parliament, will be able to adopt rapidly the harmonization rules required by the new treaty. as regards procedural law, we believe that we should be selective, but we should also be ambitious in the scope of our intervention. we therefore propose four key areas. firstly, a matter on which the commission has already announced that it is working, the harmonization of the rules on the establishment and evaluation of the basic evidence. secondly, harmonization to facilitate the enforcement of penalties, but also of the preventive measures to be applied. thirdly, the existence of common minimum rights for prisoners in all member states and, finally, consideration of international recidivism for crimes which have already been harmonised. in this report, parliament calls on the council and the commission to speed up their work so that we can all work together to build an area of freedom, security and justice with a higher quality of criminal justice in europe.
mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we have a common task to perform in order to improve the standards of quality and efficiency of justice, without forgetting that the cornerstone of our european themes is the independence of the judiciary and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, both at the substantive and procedural level. in the event of doubt, if i may do so again, i would like to congratulate mr antónio costa on the excellent report he has presented to us, which argues that the right to justice must be guaranteed to european citizens, either by the union, ensuring that they have comparable treatment regardless of the member state in which they are, or by the member states, in accordance with their respective competences, seeking to avoid the differences between the various judicial systems being an obstacle to achieving a high level of justice and protection in the area of freedom, security and justice. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to strengthen mutual trust so as to enable mutual recognition of judicial decisions, contributing to the progressive development of a european judicial culture. i support the idea of adopting a european charter of criminal justice, which should be the basis for assessing the functioning of the judicial systems of the union and for creating a mechanism for mutual evaluation of the quality of justice, objective and impartial, with a statistical and comparable database which should be put into operation as soon as possible and should involve not only the european parliament but also the national parliaments. i also thank mr antonio di pietro for his report and his proposals on shortening the time limits and conditions for access to personal data. the existing system for exchanging criminal records information is not effective. it is essential that a computerised system for the exchange of information between member states be set up, which will allow rapid access to this kind of information throughout the union, and i welcome the new developments made by mr frattini on this subject.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the quality of criminal justice and the harmonization of criminal legislation is a core issue in the european union's overall justice project. it is in criminal justice that the debate on human rights, their interrelationship, their conflicts, their foundation on an essential principle of dignity, is most dramatically expressed. the criminal question thus appeals to the moral foundations of european political culture and makes it urgent to pursue an active policy of improving the quality of criminal justice and harmonizing the laws of the member states. the emergence of a european constitution, incorporating a binding charter of fundamental rights and constituting a system of values marked by unity and integration, calls for better justice and the harmonization of criminal legislation. it is that criminal law is truly constitutional material law, it summons all the fundamental constitutional values. the absence of harmonization in this area will mean that the principle of equality between citizens is not being respected, and that the constitution is not being respected. that is why the harmonization of the penal system must not be merely a minimum, it must not be merely the basis for mutual recognition of judicial decisions, it must be an end in itself. a concerted policy does not call into question the member states' decisionmaking power in this area just because it is a concerted policy. the system of values of the european constitution also implies that the harmonization of legislation must be transversal to the whole criminal law system. it should not only consider the aspects of the procedure and the execution of sentences, but also the substantive rules, the policy for defining crimes and the criteria for shaping sentences. it must be concerned not only with security but also with the humanization of criminal law. if europe does not embrace this design, its constitutional justice system will eventually be, as kafka ironically put it, a system of open doors into which one never enters.
on behalf of the group. mr president, commissioner neelie kroes, the draft report by jonathan evans did not merit any substantive disagreement. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the spirit of cooperation which has enabled consensus to be reached on almost all the amendments which i proposed as shadow rapporteur and on behalf of the party of european socialists. these amendments have made a number of points clearer, namely that competitiveness is essential to promote european growth. but it is only one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, as important as cohesion and the environment. secondly, the relationship between competition policy and state aid should be clarified. thirdly, that the rules in agreements on technology transfer and aid for research and development should be clarified, especially where small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned. fourthly, that the link between the financial instruments linked to the kyoto protocol with an impact on enterprises and competition policy should be clarified. fifthly, it is essential that the new member states adapt quickly to competition policy. sixthly, we welcome the close link between competition policy and international trade policy, both at multilateral level, in the framework of the world trade organisation, and at bilateral level with key partners, including china. these are some of the proposals that have been accepted. two amendments were not agreed. one of them will be presented by katerina batzeli, the other concerns the phrase in which the rapporteur proposes, and i quote, 'that parliament express its concern at the repeated failure of the process of complete liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets'. liberalisation, i think, is not an end in itself. it is a means of ensuring that, in this as in other cases of essential goods, they reach consumers at the best possible price and quality and with a universal character, because, first of all, these consumers are citizens. liberalisation will have to take place in a framework in which the public good character of gas and electricity is guaranteed. that is the sense of the amendment i have had the opportunity to propose. it is important to remember today, perhaps more than ever, that the european union project is political, although economically based. if market supremacy leads to processes of permanent exclusion of citizens from their fundamental rights ... (the president withdrew the floor)
the stability pact is finally called into question, although belatedly, and only when france and germany have failed to comply with it, as is the case in most of the countries of the european union, because of the deterioration of the economic and social situation. but better late than never. unfortunately, the prospects for the ecofin council on 8 march, when they come to fruition, will mean more of the same. the flexibility in the application of the stability pact would depend on whether a state is more or less able to challenge its public social security and pension systems, its public health systems or, as some point out, the reform of its public administration, i.e. the more a state implements policies and achieves objectives which we consider to be very serious in the lisbon strategy, the more flexibility it would have in the application of the stability pact, which would be unacceptable.
mr president, mr commissioner, at a historical moment when it is becoming increasingly important for europeans to know each other in their human and cultural diversity, the european capitals of culture programme is a very effective instrument for achieving this objective. the new european dimension following the last enlargement fully justifies the designation of two european capitals of culture per year. it is necessary, however, as the european people's party has already had occasion to stress, that community funding be sufficient and appropriate. the european capital of culture is a very prestigious designation, but a city in these conditions is not expected to use the specific community funding to be european capital of culture in urban redevelopment infrastructure works or other similar. the specific funding of the programme is expected to help to highlight its role as a european city and a centre of cultural influence. nor is a european capital of culture expected to become just another international festival, however important it may be. it is expected to provide visitors with a vivid, accurate and evocative picture of the face of the city which receives the title and which thereby makes itself known. and this must be an image enriched by its contributions to european culture and its contributions to europe's relationship with the world, an image which allows us to understand its specific values, its history, its spiritual and material heritage, its traditions and customs, the peculiar way of being of its inhabitants, in a word, its human dimension. i support the prets report and the general views expressed by my predecessors, and i would suggest that the commission should take these points into account in the reforms it will be making in 2005.
in writing. i agree with the report by mr antonio di pietro, which supports and aims to strengthen the commission's initiative to introduce technical improvements in the legislation on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record, proposing practical solutions to fill the gaps in the existing system (based on the council of europe convention of 1959). this is certainly a necessary and urgent measure, since it has been demonstrated on several occasions that the existing system is not effective. it is therefore essential to set up a computerised system for the exchange of information between member states, which will allow quick access to such information throughout the union. this is another step towards achieving a truly effective, independent and transparent criminal justice system. i also support your proposals on shortening the time limits (as the effectiveness of the proposal will depend on speed, both in terms of access and in terms of updating this data) and the need to impose conditions for access to personal data (as there should always be a balance between the need for speed in this exchange of information and the safeguarding and protection of personal data).
in writing. in a europe of free movement, of free trade, shared security is a necessity. without prejudice to the full exercise of the sovereignty of the different member states, it is now widely recognised that the different countries must cooperate in the fight against crime. it is that, in addition to traditional crime, there is today a crime that does not respect borders, that operates where it sees fit and that by breaking the law of one it jeopardizes the safety of all. i understand that this is the case and i agree with the substance of this report, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. justice is, rightly, one of the elements which the member states have traditionally reserved for the sphere of sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. similarly, states are cautious in the way they allow their nationals - even simply their residents - to be judged by other states. on the other hand, there is now a global crime which is transnational in nature - such as terrorism, drug trafficking, smuggling, sexual exploitation or pornography - which requires cooperation to ensure effective crime prevention and harmonization to prevent some countries from becoming crime hotspots. these different aspects lead to the need for cooperation, recognition of judicial decisions and some harmonisation, without, however, losing sight of the fact that legal systems have to respond to the realities of different societies, so that a single european legal system is undesirable. as for a european standard of justice, in full respect of the very nature of the judicial system, this is desirable. i therefore believe that the vote in favour of this report is justified.
in writing. the defence of an economic model based on capitalism, which encourages effort, rewards merit and recognises efficiency, obliges us to defend an effective and efficient system of enforcement of the competition rules. without competition there is no market, without market there is no capitalist model and without capitalist model there is no economic success and development, as history well demonstrates. the community's role in competition supervision is therefore of great importance. without prejudice to the need to safeguard certain activities in the short term or in a certain geographical or sectoral context, competition policy is generally concerned first and foremost with the interests of consumers, who are not usually represented by trade unions, employers' associations or other movements. for this reason, i believe that the effort to protect competition deserves our applause and our agreement, even if we may disagree with some of the decisions taken by the commission. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague on her report. i would particularly like to stress the proposal to amend article 1 of the draft ec decision on the application of article 86 of the ec treaty. but i am in favour of extending the range of beneficiaries to the outermost regions. in this connection, i would remind you that the ec, in its communications 'a stronger partnership for the outermost regions' and 'a stronger partnership for the outermost regions: balance sheet and prospects', envisages the introduction of simplified rules for the award of public service contracts for maritime transport to serve small islands with a traffic of at least 100 000 passengers per year. i would also point out that in the outermost regions the liberalization of services and the operation of infrastructure has been achieved on the condition that public service obligations can be introduced, as a way of mitigating the constraints arising from the physical reality of the outermost regions and other associated constraints. i would also point out that there are other services of general economic interest which are important for the outermost regions, such as postal services and telecommunications. this is why the two ec documents are so important for the outermost regions, and i believe that the special situation of these regions should be taken into account in these legislative instruments.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr grosch on his report and say that my main concern in this debate on the future adoption of a european driving licence is that a good idea should not be undermined by excessive regulation which creates more burdens and difficulties for motorists. the idea is positive, european citizens benefit from an increasingly effective freedom of movement and therefore basic rules must be harmonised to promote road safety, to prevent fraud by the misuse of false cards and to enable the control of offenders, preventing motorists who are punished in one country from easily obtaining a new licence in another. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the problem arises precisely when the temptation to regulate takes advantage of a good idea and a policy initiative which is clearly positive. what we must avoid is that in the name of a beneficial measure and in the name of options which are always debatable, we should increase the regulatory and bureaucratic constraints, as well as the financial costs for motorists, and create national limitations for applicants to drive motorcycles, etc. in doing so, the principle of subsidiarity and the respect for the legitimately established practices of the authorities of the member states are not taken into account, and in one way or another, obstacles are being put in the way, sometimes imperceptible, of the exercise of the driving rights acquired by any european citizen, and this despite all the statements to the contrary that we will all certainly make. these are the fundamental reasons why i have endorsed a number of amendments to the report we are discussing here, all of which are designed to make life easier for citizens and the various road operators, and at the same time to promote safer road traffic. the most important of the four freedoms in europe is freedom of movement.
mr president, commissioner borg, our rapporteur elspeth attwooll, i too would like to join in the words of those who have already congratulated her on her excellent work. we have, as our colleague mr kindermann has already said, some differences of opinion, but there is no doubt that this is a high-quality piece of work which must be highlighted here. i would like to begin by recalling that electronic means now exist which allow effective monitoring of the entire community fleet and also quick access to data of extreme scientific importance for the maintenance of sustainable fisheries. it is precisely for this reason that i find it absolutely incomprehensible that we have, on the one hand, exclusive competence which has been rightly classified as anomalous and unjustified by our committee on fisheries, while at the same time we have no practical competence at all, particularly where it is most needed and would be most effective on the part of the community, which is in the field of remote control. this proposal therefore gives rise to the following considerations. firstly, it is obviously welcome, as has already been said by several of our colleagues here, but it is welcome from an operational point of view that it should be an operational instrument and not just another paper factory and a bureaucratic rotating mechanism that does nothing and solves nothing. the second major concern is that this agency will not serve to give community policies over to the games of interest and forces at play, because in such circumstances it is usually the smaller regions that lose out in the clearest way, as well as sustainable fishing itself.
mr president, i too must of course welcome the positive answer given here by commissioner borg to the very clear question which our commission and, in particular, our president, have brought to this house at the right time. but i would like to say that for me, this so-called by-catch is first and foremost a civilization problem. i consider it a complete barbarity that millions of tonnes of wildlife are fished and that this is done for nothing, death for death, death by bureaucratic rules or by industrial logic that thinks it is cheaper to kill a lot and enjoy little because nature has no value. this is the fundamental question, the question of saying that we must respect nature. we, of course, like every other living thing, use nature and it is legitimate for us to do so, but we must respect nature. there is no sustainable fishing without respect for nature and this is perhaps the biggest symbol of what is wrong with our common fisheries policy and, as has already been mentioned, just look at our neighbours in norway and iceland - this is not done, this is a practice that is in fact prohibited and it is absolutely regrettable that this is not happening among us. it is very good that the commission has taken this position at the fao, but as has already been said here, we cannot forget the two million tonnes that are sent away every year and, commissioner, let me remind you of the following: we have voted here very recently to ban bottom trawls, which are an extremely non-selective method - even acknowledged by the commission itself - are among the most predatory and cause the greatest number of by-catches. this ban has existed in the azores for a long time, where this art has never been practiced before. the commission did not want to hear about this and imposed, was in favour of reimposing, the liberalisation of the use of this fishing gear in azorean waters. this is a practical manifestation of an attitude which i think is totally contrary to what has been said before, because before we speak to fao it seems to me essential to be sure that we have good practices within the european union.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i would like to mention three areas where the commissioner's statements seemed vague or imprecise. the first aspect is about the israeli-palestinian conflict. we all know that the declared truce is very important for palestine to be able to complete its process of democratically electing its representatives. but the truce is not synonymous with peace and israel continues to take prisoners while releasing prisoners. israel continues to redesign the west bank wall as it prepares to abandon gaza. in fact, he projects the bantustification of palestine. europe has everything to gain from being clear on this matter. as regards the second aspect, immigration, the commissioner has also made very general statements. historically, the mediterranean has been a sea of communications, a bridge between men, a highway for commerce and cultures. but we europeans have made it a new wall, a wall where 4,000 men and women have drowned their best hopes in the last ten years. our responsibility, commissioner, is not to make the southern states the policemen of those who seek better living conditions. our responsibility is to replace the present immigration policy with one that balances migration flows in both directions. only then will we have the moral authority to address the issue of human rights without duplicity. only in this way can we also denounce, for example, the deplorable state of hundreds of thousands of sudanese who are treated as slaves in libya. the barcelona process must either become a major euro-mediterranean agreement, in which peace, democracy and human rights are exchanged for economic and social integration, or it will be nothing more than a good letter of intent.
it's 2005, the year of the mediterranean. the year began with positive signs, not only in the democratic process but also in the peace dialogues. the apem committee on economic, financial and social affairs in education in amman sought to strengthen these signals and give them short- and medium-term objectives for the protection of citizens and development. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child. in the ep, as in amman, we all consider peace to be a desirable and necessary objective as a factor of prosperity. the middle east spends 60 billion euros a year on armaments and cutting this budget in half will allow for a financial allocation that is absolutely crucial to support the development of the entire region. the role of the eu in this and the following mediterranean years must therefore be clear and concrete. economic and regional integration in more globalised markets, such as the eu, must be ensured, and these 720 million people in euromed therefore represent a market more important than china which must be taken into account by investment firms. education and training are fundamental to the creation of the industrial workforce. the european commission should therefore seek to support measures that include the countries of the meda programme. in this way, horizons will be broadened. for the development of employment, the eu should contribute to the creation of industrial jobs and support and promote micro-credit institutions. joint development and initiatives are absolutely crucial in areas such as water, energy, transport, infrastructure and tourism to enable social progress and economic and regional integration. for this long history to have a happy ending and for these peoples to be able to dream again of a prosperous future, these objectives are essential and this year of the mediterranean is absolutely exemplary. we therefore expect the european union to be the immediate driving force in this whole process.
on behalf of the group. mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, the annual sessions of the commission on human rights are always a major event in terms of the international, universal promotion of human rights, which is a fundamental cause for us, although we must bear in mind that it always causes some perplexity in public opinion that countries that are known to be the worst violators of human rights and that are even among the worst dictatorships in the world, such as cuba, saudi arabia, sudan, zimbabwe, china or others that have very serious human rights problems, such as the russian federation, sit on the commission on human rights, and we all know that this is not just about the issue of chechnya. so working in this context and with the heritage that we europeans have in promoting human rights requires us to have a particularly clear strategy. in our view, this strategy should be based on three fundamental lines. first, the fight against dictatorships. that is the genesis of the culture of human rights, the fight against authoritarianism, totalitarianism and dictatorships, and that is a fight that continues. unfortunately, more than half the world's population still has no opportunity to have a parliament like this, no freedom of social organisation, no freedom of political organisation and this remains a fundamental work along the lines of the universal declaration of human rights and the covenant on civil and political rights. secondly, it also calls attention to two new contemporary threats to human rights. one is terrorism, global terrorism, which we welcome, and which is already dealt with in this context in the resolution tabled by the european parliament. terrorism is often just handled by the other side. the fight against terrorism cannot violate human rights - we agree with that - but we must also bear in mind that terrorism itself is, at the very present time, one of the greatest causes of fear, one of the greatest causes of insecurity and, in itself, a most violent attack on human rights. finally, a new reality that threatens human rights, namely international crime. the dark side of globalization in child exploitation, child labor, trafficking in women, organ trafficking, human trafficking, also has to be treated as a new threat to human rights. i think that these are the areas on which we should concentrate. as for the resolution which was adopted in the commission, we would give our consent if some amendments were adopted which split the democratic field. we reserve our final right to vote.
in writing. the agreement, which the rapporteur agrees with, is a further necessary step towards the full integration of the new member states. this agreement, like the others that have been concluded, also shows that the enlargement of the european union has been welcomed by its traditional partners and is a sign that europe is now a political entity of ever greater importance. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. this recommendation follows the recent enlargement of the european union and aims to integrate the new member states into the framework of the eu-egypt euro-mediterranean association agreement by concluding an additional protocol to that agreement. it's similar to previous ones. the conclusion of this protocol will, inter alia, affect the importation of agricultural products originating in egypt into the new member states which it will bring under its control. these association and cooperation agreements have earned my support. i believe that this is another useful step in the euro-mediterranean partnership. the union must be a community of well-being for its citizens and a catalyst for the economies of its neighbours, in line with its strategy for a 'european neighbourhood policy' (com (2004) 373 final), adopted by the general affairs council on 14 june 2004. i voted yes.
in writing. after the work already done at the time of the first reading, and in view of the cooperation work carried out with the council, i believe that this report should be voted in favour of, since what is at issue here, and which is mainly concerned with the introduction of a harmonised system of risk assessment, strengthens the conditions for the security of the community's external borders, which is a matter which should be dear to all.
in writing. the new challenges and threats to the stability of the international community and, in particular, of the european space and its internal market, brought about by the emergence of an increasingly volatile and unpredictable reality, require the adoption of new measures, particularly of a preventive nature. this proposal for a regulation amending the community customs code aims to introduce elements of a new concept of external border security management through a harmonised risk assessment system. the aim is to increase the level of security requirements for international movements of goods. in this respect, the redefinition of the role of customs and the introduction of a mechanism to set risk selection parameters at community level, as well as the creation of automatic support systems for risk management, correspond to the expectations of european citizens in improving general safety levels. i welcome the adoption of the majority of the amendments tabled by the european parliament, which were approved at first reading, and the unanimous decision reached in the committee on the subject, which i am also referring to.
in writing. like the rapporteur, my own assessment of the matter is not entirely without doubt. i would like to begin by saying that it seems to me potentially contradictory that the council should want to authorize the member states to do what they have already done - in particular france - especially in a matter where it is not clear whether this is a community competence or whether it is provided for in the exceptions enshrined in the treaty. on the other hand, the deficiencies which the rapporteur himself points out in the substance of the convention in question could also lead us to consider that its approval is not immune from criticism. in this case, the report could be voted against for the reasons i have given. there are, however, two reasons why we do not. on the one hand, it is the council itself which wants to authorize the member states, so it is the member states themselves which ask for this authorization. it is not for the european parliament to discuss the efficiency of a convention which its signatories consider to be efficient. i therefore vote in favour of the report, with the reservations i have mentioned.
in writing. as provided for in article 3 (j) of the ec treaty, action by the union shall involve the promotion of coordination between the employment policies of the member states with a view to enhancing their effectiveness by developing a coordinated strategy for employment. the lisbon strategy also has as one of its innovative elements the promotion of lifelong learning and is present in all the member states' national action plans. the creation of a legal basis at european level for the collection of comparable data reflecting the real picture of continuing vocational training will therefore be of great importance both from the point of view of coordination and of effectiveness. this regulation establishes a common framework for the production of community statistics on vocational training in enterprises. this will be decisive in order to adopt consistent strategies for promoting active lifelong vocational training policies. portugal has already moved in this direction, and requirements have been introduced in labour legislation in the area of lifelong training for workers and enterprises. i voted yes.
in writing. the lisbon strategy has defined a series of instruments with the aim of creating more and better jobs. lifelong learning is one of these tools. but learning is far from a reality for european workers. improving vocational skills is not given due importance despite member states putting this issue at the heart of reducing unemployment and promoting productivity. in an eu-15 only 8.5% of european citizens benefited from this occupational added value. what values will we now have in the eu of 25? we're talking about something that has little concrete substance. and because i understand that everything that is not measured cannot be managed, we must create the conditions for the systematic and periodic collection of comparable data that can give a picture of what is happening in continuing vocational training. i am also in favour of including smes as part of this kind of statistics. despite the bureaucratic burden, it is worthwhile, albeit through simplified procedures, to involve smes in this exercise, because they represent about 90% of european enterprises. promoting training and investing in the lifelong employability of our workers are sustainable ways of achieving greater competitiveness in the european economy.
in writing. a new version of the ilo convention on the identification documents of seafarers, which aims to improve the identification system by simplifying the formalities to which seafarers are subject when calling at a port in a country other than that of their nationality, has been negotiated by the member states. unlike the rapporteur, i am not surprised that it has been decided to include biometric elements in seafarers' identification documents, since there is no doubt that the security of travel documents needs to be strengthened and that these new technologies have a number of advantages in terms of identifying individuals and preventing the forgery of documents. the overall objective of this proposal is thus to combine flexibility and security. as regards the 'model' chosen, which consists of a fingerprint translated into a barcode in the form of digits, there is no problem of interoperability with either passports or visas, since both proposals will be accompanied by fingerprints which will then be comparable. as regards the discrepancy in technical and equipment, it should be noted that this is the least expensive solution, and we are still waiting for the commission to submit a proposal with the model chosen for the introduction of biometrics in visas, ... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. on the basis of the principle that it is only the identification of seafarers when they are embarked that is at issue, we agree with the essential point, namely that the seafarer's identification document should be considered a sufficient document and should dispense with any entry visas, particularly in cases of arrivals and stopovers, and also in the cases of transit, transfer or repatriation. moreover, the portuguese seafarer's registration card, in accordance with article 9 of annex i to decree-law no 280/2001 of 23 october 2001, 'may constitute a seafarer's identification document for the purposes of ilo convention no 108', leaving therefore only the question of 'visas', which in our view should not be required. we are therefore generally in favour of the proposals contained in the report. there is, however, one question that needs to be examined. the commission proposal is to propose to the council that the member states be authorized to ratify an ilo convention, thus once again putting national sovereignty at risk, which is something we are opposed to. it should be stressed that france has already ratified this convention, effectively exercising its sovereignty as an independent state, and of course without asking the eu whether it could do so or not.
in writing. since only member states can accede to convention no 185 of the international labour organisation (ilo), the european commission took part in the negotiations as an observer, proposing to the council to authorise member states bound by community rules in this field (council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 of 15 march 2001) to ratify the convention in the interest of the community. although there are some technical reservations (in particular as regards the operability of control by means of biometric data) raised by the rapporteur, i also share his view that, by proposing this council decision, the authorization is being given a symbolic value. by allowing simultaneous ratification by all member states, the importance which the union attaches to this convention is thus confirmed to the rest of the world. i voted yes.
in writing. i think it is necessary that the european union's action on this issue should be clear and that a responsible framework of rules for the transport of oil and other harmful liquid substances by sea should be provided. it is therefore important to act against illegal discharges and to ensure that the international standards in force are uniformly applied and interpreted within the eu. the proposal for a directive incorporates into community law a number of international provisions on landings, based on the world-wide agreements (marpol), and determines which infringements of landing rules constitute criminal offences, providing guidance on the nature of the penalties to be applied. the relevant, clear and reasonable provisions of marpol should be incorporated into community law, as maritime transport is becoming increasingly international. another relevant point is undoubtedly the establishment of measures to protect the crew and the possibility of criminal proceedings against other links in the chain. it is essential that the application of sanctions be imputed to all those responsible for pollution of the marine environment.
in writing. the whole of europe is still haunted by the tragedy of the prestige oil tanker. the memory of this catastrophe has led the union to seek to prevent events of similar gravity from recurring. in addition to the issues of preventing marine accidents, there is also the need to combat effectively the intentional marine pollution which constitutes the bulk of the pollution that the oceans are currently struggling with. in this particular case, discharges from ships on the high seas deserve particular concern and attention. as spain, france, italy and portugal have already said to the council, i believe that the european union should go beyond the directive in the fight against illegal dumping in the exclusive economic zone, and it is legitimate for them to do so themselves, in compliance with international standards. i have doubts about the legality of the introduction of criminal penalties on the basis of the article of the treaty on transport (article 80 (2)) and about the reasoning put forward by the commission and parliament that this would be lawful given the need for criminal penalties to achieve the objectives of european environmental and transport policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mathieu grosch report on driving licences. protection against fraud, the free movement of drivers and road safety are fundamental to the defence of freedom of movement in the european union. this good idea should not be undermined by excessive regulation, which creates more burdens and difficulties for the motorists for whom it is intended. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. it is necessary to avoid that a beneficial and fully justified measure increases regulatory and bureaucratic constraints, creates additional limitations for applicants to drive motorcycles or sets more restrictive conditions for the validity or renewal of driving licences. although none of the amendments i have supported has received the support of the majority of the house, i consider the balance of the text acceptable and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the multiplicity of types and forms of driving licence which entitle a national of a member state to drive a motor vehicle is a circumstance which, in a community in which freedom of movement is the rule, may affect the supervisory capacity of the authorities of the respective states in a worrying manner, with inevitable costs for legal certainty and road safety. the european network of information on driving licences and the mutual recognition of penalties could be valuable contributions to tackling this situation. the fight against fraud, the free movement of drivers and road safety are the main issues in this area and the aim should be to achieve a convergence of criteria which will make it possible to achieve the same level of reliability from lisbon to nicosia. in my view, such convergence should take account of the principles of subsidiarity, appropriateness and proportionality, avoiding duplication of bureaucracy and creating obstacles to the free movement of persons and goods. i believe that the idea of progressiveness or phased access to certain types of vehicles, particularly motorcycles, can have a positive effect on reducing road accidents among young people and that it is worth considering whether it can be implemented. after all, i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renate sommer report because it considers inland navigation to be one of the key elements of intermodality in transport. the eu has a dense network of natural canals and rivers which is not yet fully exploited and which should be exploited given the safe and environmentally friendly nature of this means of transport. the proposal aims to create a european framework for the introduction of inland navigation information services and could contribute to a better and more efficient management of traffic and transport on inland waterways. it is time to ensure the interoperability of these services and to lay the foundations for modern transport chain management. in this way, real-time information clearly increases the competitiveness of the sector. this proposal does not restrict the action of the member states too much and also provides for a considerable reduction in estimation errors and the number of accidents. the new technologies mentioned here can boost the sector and influence the distribution of modes of transport in the economy. the positive role that inland navigation can and should play in intermodal traffic systems, which are a cornerstone of future transport, should therefore be taken into account.
in writing. the commission's proposal is a major effort to reduce road congestion, particularly in the transport of heavy goods in europe, which i have been constantly stressing for a long time. inland navigation is a safe and environmentally friendly means of transport, but unfortunately it represents only about 7% of the goods traffic of the 'old' 15 member states. like inland navigation, cabotage should also be monitored and promoted more closely. more than just sectors to be taken into account, as the commission has defined, both are valid solutions to be promoted and developed. the proposal also sets out a european framework for the introduction of inland navigation information services using modernised information and communication services to improve traffic and transport management on inland waterways. the intermodality projected in european transport policy and the ambition to achieve high levels of environmental protection and quality can only be realised if sectors of activity that embody these same aspirations are given a boost. i hope that this proposal for a directive will be another step towards a genuine long-distance maritime and inland waterway transport strategy, which will be preferred to road transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the robert evans report on the recognition of seafarers' certificates because i believe that the decline in the number of community seafarers must be tackled by measures to maintain the freedom of movement of workers in this sector. this proposal aims to simplify the procedure for the recognition of seafarers' certificates. the proposed reduction in administrative burden will combat discrimination and promote the mobility of workers in the maritime sector. i therefore agree with the guidelines proposed.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to simplify the procedure for recognising seafarers' certificates, as it has been found that the recognition of these documents issued outside the eu is simpler than that of those issued within the eu. the main aim is to align european standards with international agreements and, in particular, with the international maritime organisation (imo) stcw convention (standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers), which, through the 1978 convention, has defined, inter alia, specific criteria for the recognition of the certificates of master, officer or radio operator issued by the parties. i consider the proposal to be timely and i naturally stress the adoption of language proficiency requirements for seafarers - fluency in english, clearly the international working language - and the provision of fraud prevention mechanisms in relation to the certification process (article 5 of the commission proposal). the reduction of the regulatory burden on professionals in the sector in europe is another positive aspect of this proposal.
in writing. i congratulate mrs attwooll on the important and timely report produced on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency and amending regulation (eec) no 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy, which i support, particularly as regards the clarification that is intended to be achieved by the proposed changes to the agency's role as an intermediary, in particular in the context of the preparation of the joint use plans involving a merger by the member states of their control and inspection resources, as well as the nature of the functions of the fisheries control centre. the creation of this agency deserves our full support, since its role will be to 'facilitate' the plans to be drawn up by the member states in the fisheries sector for the inspection and control of their resources. it will be an organisation supporting the implementation of the new common fisheries policy, which will contribute to the creation of more uniform and effective control and inspection procedures. however, for it to work effectively, it is necessary to outline a functional organisational structure capable of being a 'facilitator' of the whole process.
in writing. the fisheries sector is of great importance for europe in general, but it is especially important for portugal, where the interests of our country are not always sufficiently protected by community guidelines. for this reason, the regulation establishing a community fisheries control agency deserves particular attention. while it is true that the member states are responsible for monitoring fishing activities, the fact is that the committee has a function of operational coordination of surveillance activities and above all has a common interest to protect. it is therefore the way in which this common interest is pursued that we must focus on, while recalling the need for full respect for the principle of subsidiarity. and to do this, we must ensure the necessary means, particularly in the case of portugal, given its enormous eez. finally, it is necessary to acknowledge the reservations arising from the fact that the creation of a new community agency would risk some functional overlap and some duplication of costs.
in writing. it has been common practice to set up community agencies whenever certain matters, because of their importance and sensitivity, seem to warrant more prompt and effective study and response by the european union. i fear that this situation will persist and extend to issues whose real scope does not merit such an investment in human and material resources. this does not seem to be the case with the proposed agency, which could be beneficial to the sector if the principles which guided its creation are taken into account. i am, however, alert to the risk of centralisation and loss of power by the member states, which i believe should continue to hold the key power in this area, without excessive imposition or regulation by the agency, which should be particularly respectful of the principle of subsidiarity. to this end, i think it would be helpful if the draft report clearly delimited the powers and duties of each of its staff.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report which points out the significant backsliding in approach and ambition between the commission's environment and health strategy and what its implementation should be, namely the action plan. the european parliament itself considers that the action plan can only be regarded, at best, as a research plan, which by itself does not reduce, at least in the immediate future, the health problems caused by environmental factors. the examples cited highlight the criticism that only four of the thirteen actions defined in the commission's environmental and health strategy for 2004-2010 concern specific measures and no quantitative targets or the absence of any reference to the impact of pollution on mental and neurological health. but without doubt one of the biggest gaps is the lack of assessment of the consequences of the current community policies promoted at european union level, such as the common agricultural policy, the liberalization policies that promote the privatization of essential public services, subjecting them to the logic of profit, as is happening with water. another gap is that concerning health at work, in particular the risk areas and occupations.
in writing. profile of the need to implement an action plan for the assessment and promotion of the environment and health with the child at its centre. the strategy behind this initiative, better known as scale science, children, awareness, legal instruments, evaluation , aims to put into practice the transversal approach to this issue, which is increasingly worrying european citizens, especially because of the steady increase in four types of disease: respiratory diseases, asthma and childhood allergies; neurodevelopmental disorders; childhood cancers; and endocrine disorders. in view of this, i support the intention to speed up and improve the processes of information and communication so that the actual causal link between pollution and health is known more quickly and on a more substantiated basis. the rapporteur calls for the precautionary principle to be used to deny the need for absolute scientific proof of the danger of a given product before it is withdrawn from the market. the court may even agree with the assumption, but it points out that this principle may be interpreted in an irregular and not always consistent manner by the community courts, and that a clarification of the principle is warranted.
in writing. it is true that the mediterranean is of strategic importance for the whole of europe and that it is necessary to develop a policy of solidarity in the mediterranean to face the many common challenges of peace, stability, terrorism, mutual understanding, the fight against trafficking in human beings and the objective of creating a zone of shared prosperity. but this cannot mean increasing interference in the political life of each country, nor can it justify repressive and militaristic actions which can have exactly the opposite effect to what is stated, as some recent experiences have already shown. the whole mediterranean area is particularly sensitive and requires very special care, with particular emphasis on the need to support peace in the middle east, taking into account the defence of the interests of palestine and the implementation of the relevant un resolutions. that is why we are not in agreement with some aspects of this resolution adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. the implementation of control and inspection measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in their respective exclusive economic zones is a matter for the member states. we are sceptical about the merits of setting up a community fisheries control agency and think that centralisation at this level clashes with the competences of the member states. it is not by chance that this regulation comes before the publication of the results of a feasibility study by the agency. we therefore vote against the report. this does not invalidate our position that we consider it important to strengthen the coordination of member states in the field of control activities to ensure a more uniform application of the cfp and to combat illegal fishing. or that the community budget should be more closely involved in the investments required to ensure control activities. without prejudice to matters of principle, we cannot but express our disagreement with the representativeness of the management board, its operating model and the excessive weight the european commission assumes in it, particularly in the voting system. as we believe, in the name of the principle of co-management, that the participation of the different representatives of the fisheries sector should be guaranteed.
in writing. to understand clearly its place and its scope, europe must not ignore the lessons of history. the fact that the 'middle sea' has always brought more together than it has separated must be accompanied by the pragmatic desire to revive it as an important artery of political, commercial and cultural circulation. i am not unaware of the specific problems affecting much of the southern shore of the mediterranean, but i am aware of the common appeals and common objectives. i believe, however, that these are not just for the benefit of their people and their governments, but on the contrary require a coordinated and concerted fight with the european union within the framework of the neighbourhood policy that it is shaping. in this respect, i welcome the transformation of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary forum into the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, the affirmation of a parliamentary political component that allows the permanent institutionalisation of interregional dialogue, and the declaration by the euro-mediterranean foreign ministers that 2005 would be the 'year of the mediterranean'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. despite this, the eu now contributes 55% of total development aid. strengthening europe's role in fighting poverty and in development aid strengthens the credibility and effectiveness of european foreign and security policy and defence worldwide. europe can make a difference against hunger and poverty by supporting the initiative of presidents lula and zapatero and also by mobilising funds and leading projects with strategic impact. with the eradication of malaria, as recommended by the director of the united nations millennium programme, because it is mainly in the poorest countries that malaria strikes with devastating effects and incalculable economic costs. malaria, according to who, is the most deadly and disabling disease. over a million people die each year, 90% of them in africa. according to unicef, malaria kills one child every 30 seconds. at the time of my intervention, three children are dying of malaria. europe can do more and better. the commission should therefore launch and lead a global effort to combat malaria, increase and channel funds to control programmes in the countries of impact, support priority national policies in the fight against malaria, stimulate the private sector in the production of a vaccine and the distribution of treatment drugs and insecticide-treated mosquito nets. poverty and misery feed injustice and despair, and these feed global insecurity. with a strategic commitment to malaria, europe will make a decisive contribution to the millennium development goals, commitments which must be honoured, and to a fairer and safer world, the world which european citizens expect the european union to help build.
on behalf of the group. it is good that this debate is finally taking place here, but i regret that it did not take place during the last months of last year before the liberalisation, as i proposed. the strategic textile sector is at stake, with great potential for the future and a major contribution to economic and social cohesion, and it is urgent to protect it from the point of view of the productive sector with a specific programme. if we do not, the opposite will happen, with more unemployment and development blocks. in the weaker countries, where the textile and clothing industries are more established - as in northern and central portugal - there is already a worrying increase in import licences issued for china, especially in the product categories which are most sensitive for portuguese industry, in addition to all the concern about textiles imported from other destinations, such as india and pakistan. the safeguard clause must therefore be applied urgently in order to protect the employment of thousands, even millions of workers and industry, since it will only have a positive effect if it is used quickly.
the textile and clothing industry, although it has lost some weight in recent years at the general level of the european union, continues to be of enormous importance in some countries of the union, and is even the structuring activity of the economy of several regions. as has already been said, since last january the quantitative restrictions on international trade in these products have disappeared. this change, although expected, has a major impact on markets, mainly due to the influence of china, which, ignoring social or environmental concerns, allows its companies to practice exceptionally low prices. two main consequences follow: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the use of pesticides in the food industry. despite the commitments made by the chinese authorities in recent months to limit their own exports from their country, the fact is that the indicators we have are of the greatest concern to us, and it is therefore appropriate at this stage to ask the following questions: first, how are the commission and the council monitoring developments in this matter, using what instruments to make a permanent assessment of the development of this situation, and secondly, how is the commission prepared to act on the specific safeguard mechanisms, even considering that there is at least the fear that the united states will do so very soon.
the european garment industry is facing a serious crisis. in addition, the crisis is concentrated in some regions which are already disadvantaged and which will now be much more vulnerable. the restructuring of the sector in recent years has led to massive relocations of production and mass redundancies, the overwhelming majority of which are low-skilled women. the balance sheet is known and leaves no room for doubt. in about ten years, a loss of 20 to 25% of industrial units and jobs. the recent opening of the market to china aggravates the situation. i would suggest that the commission should take three types of measures: first, to monitor scrupulously all imports on the community market, without fear of acting through the safeguard clauses. the monitoring system must work and it must work quickly. i do not want to appeal to any kind of protectionism. it would be to go against the winds of history. europe must get used to competing with countries where labour is cheap, but europe cannot accept competition with companies that do not pay for energy, that use slave labour and children and that do not respect intellectual property. secondly, we must monitor the phenomenon of the relocation of textile companies, as well as cases of fraud and of companies which received aid before they closed down. thirdly (a recommendation to the commission), the european textile sector should focus on those points in the value chain where europe has real competitive advantages. this requires the development of a policy which takes account, among other things, of logistics infrastructure, geographical proximity to major markets, the ability to respond to orders within short deadlines, design, quality control, innovation, the use of new materials and new technologies, relations with the major distribution networks, continuing vocational training and support for smes, which remain the majority of companies in the sector. i call on the commission to take note of the fact that this is the way the future of the textile industry in europe will go.
from 1 january to the present, authorised imports of textiles from china have reached, for several textile categories, volumes up to 7 times higher in quantity than the corresponding imports made in 2004. for several items, import licences in these two months have already exceeded the total imports of these same items during the whole of 2004. for almost all products, prices have fallen sharply, some by less than half. in view of the possibility that the commission may lift the safeguard measures provided for in the chinese accession process, i would ask you, commissioner, to clarify: first, what are the consequences of the commission not having yet begun to produce customs data on textile imports; on the other hand, the consequences of the guidelines still to be defined which the commission should have prepared and made available as early as 2004; finally, what assurance can european producers have that the commission is technically and politically capable of acting before it is too late?
i would also like to begin by congratulating both the rapporteur, mrs mercedes bresso, and the shadow rapporteur for our group, mrs marianne thyssen, on the excellent work they have done and on the sensitivity, the wit and the sense of balance with which they have done it. this is what has enabled parliament to advance its positions in this area so important to the consumer public and at the same time to save us the delays and uncertainties of a conciliation process. we are facing a great moment in the internal market and a first milestone in this area in this legislature. and parliament has made a most important contribution here, in key areas, to disprove all those who often look with indifference at our legislative work. the european parliament, after the first reading, in the previous legislature, was responsible for including in the common position the notions of vulnerable consumers and firm commitment, greater procedural rigour in the drafting of the codes of conduct, including the participation of consumer associations, a more precise and extensive list of aggressive practices and, as such, prohibited, as well as the derogation clause, now for six years, allowing the interim application of stricter national legislation, or the obligation for the commission to submit regular reports to parliament on the application of the directive and to propose, where appropriate, the corresponding adaptation. the second reading will enable us to make further progress in the safeguards and protection of consumers, particularly in the field of the protection of minors, by preventing their abuse through a set of amendments, duly considered and calibrated, for which the final agreement of the council is already guaranteed. good news, therefore, full success. i have also made a modest contribution to some of these amendments, notably amendment no 17, and i thank the members on this occasion for the understanding with which they have welcomed and followed it, since i am aware that i have already tabled it beyond the limits which the rules allow for a second reading. but it is more a guarantee for consumers that is inscribed, in this particular case, in the insurance area and that is frankly positive. i would like to make one final point, mr president, to share the rapporteur's view that it is not necessary, and even inconvenient, to insist here on the so-called country of origin principle, or in this case the internal market clause. i too believe that we should move towards legislative harmonization in these areas, and that is what has been achieved here, which is a good sign for the future. the right course was taken.
mr president, commissioner, there are 4.8 million accidents a year, resulting in 5,200 deaths and 300,000 victims with permanent disabilities. mr president, this is not a new epidemic spreading beyond our borders, but a concrete reality of the european union. accidents at work are a real tragedy, with incalculable human and financial costs. i have to admit that the latest figures show that the number of accidents is falling, precisely, i think, thanks to the measures taken to improve the protection of the health and safety of workers. but these figures are still worrying and, incredibly, more than 50% of european workers still lack access to accident prevention mechanisms. among the most vulnerable targets, migrant temporary workers deserve particular attention, as do the construction, fisheries and agricultural sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers in small and mediumsized enterprises is not compromised. although they are one of the most important drivers of the european economy, smes lack information and resources to manage their safety and health problems. without the appropriate financial framework to promote training and awareness-raising activities for workers on the risk of occupational accidents, many of the initiatives envisaged would not even have been implemented. finally, an explicit reference to the key word in this problem - prevention. the number, quality and respective competences of labour inspection services need to be increased, and penalties for infringements strengthened. at a time when the objectives of the lisbon strategy have just been revised, in the sense that a healthy and safe working environment is a decisive factor for the growth of the european economy and its continuity, i would like to say that there is no point in the wording of paragraphs 27 and 29 of the report under consideration.
the next item is the oral question (b6-0012/2005) by mr ransdorf, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, to the commission on the doubling of eu budgetary funds for research.
mr president, it has been two months since the tsunami tragedy. these two months have certainly been the worst of all time for the many thousands of human beings who have not only lost their families, their homes and their communities, but have been, and sadly continue to be, deprived of their only means of livelihood, especially those who depended on fishing. the commission's proposal is therefore welcome and should be approved by the european parliament after incorporating the proposals for improvement put forward by the pse and other parliamentary groups. the proposal must, however, be assessed realistically and in accordance with its exact size, i.e. it must be seen as a limited, short-term and little more than symbolic response, given that thousands of boats have been destroyed and that this action will hardly replace more than a few dozen, and that there are doubts as to the suitability of the boats for the reality for which they are intended, and that the operationalization of the proposal is becoming very difficult and expensive, especially as regards the transport of the boats. the initiative has the merit of demonstrating that the european union is not indifferent to this aspect of the tragedy. however, solidarity will only be effective if we go further, that is, if adequate support is obtained for the construction and reconstruction of vessels on the spot, in particular small craft boats and gear appropriate to the types of fisheries being fished, by, inter alia, withdrawing a share of the fifg from the appropriations allocated to each member state to ensure their financing. in short, the commission proposal should not be demagogically criticized for being insufficient. first, we must do everything to complete it.
in writing. the report is concerned above all with the effectiveness with which the european union is dealing with its international obligations, in particular those which result from the fact that its member states are all members of the united nations. in this sense, and in view of the legal architecture of the union, this proposal for a council regulation makes perfect sense. on the other hand, the application of sanctions is at issue here, which are intended - and the necessary rigour is expected - to act against those who may represent a threat to the peace and national reconciliation process in côte d'ivoire. the process of peace and national reconciliation is fragile and needs all the international protection that can be given it. moreover, the sanctions provided for here do not affect or are intended to affect the population, but only certain persons, so that their usefulness and fairness must be recognized. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. one of the indispensable conditions for the proper functioning of the capitalist economic model is that consumers have true freedom of choice, and true freedom of choice exists only when, among other things, consumers are duly and correctly informed about the products or services they purchase. that said, it is also true that over-regulation of the rules imposed on undertakings cannot result in such standardisation and harmonisation as to render competition unworkable. the report also calls for the adoption of a directive on the protection of consumers against unfair commercial practices by undertakings in the internal market, which would ensure that the consumer is protected in a fair and equitable manner. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the tsunami disaster has had a huge impact on the fisheries sector in india, indonesia, myanmar, maldives, somalia, sri lanka and thailand. data indicate that thousands of fishermen have died, 110,000 vessels have been destroyed, and the cost to the sector has risen to some eur 400 million, requiring the repair of port infrastructure to cost more than eur 450 million. the scale of the disaster requires serious efforts by the international community to support the reconstruction of this key sector. unfortunately, the proposal to transfer to these countries vessels intended for slaughter in the various member states is a hypocritical example of apparent aid which is not feasible and does not meet local needs. this leads to the unusual situation of no requests from the countries concerned. data show that at the cost of sending these vessels, some 9600 new ones adapted to the fishing situation in these countries could be built. we therefore supported the amendments which aimed to turn this commission proposal into humanitarian aid and the development of the fisheries sector in the countries concerned, providing technical and financial assistance. maintaining the possibility of transfer of vessels if requested and complying with fao criteria. we voted yes to correct a mistake.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the future prospects for the steel industry. the steel sector is one of the areas where technological developments are fundamental and where we find several examples of production units which have been singled out as models of technological know-how. these industrial activities represent a large segment of the population of enlarged europe and in recent years, large public investments have been made in the innovation and development of european industrial interests. i would remind you that many of these investments come from the community funds and that a clear and concrete framework of rules for the use of these funds is needed. we must not allow companies financed by these funds to evade the conditions agreed to for these subsidies, in particular their long-term obligations to produce in the territory and to maintain jobs. the situation is even more serious when, as in the case referred to in the resolution, the economic group in question has positive net results and economic growth, which makes any decision to relocate or dismantle the respective industrial units inexplicable.
in writing. as the 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights (unchr) approaches, the european union and its 25 member states should look to this meeting as yet another moment to put into practice what are the declared and repeatedly affirmed values of the european union and each of its 25 member states. the european union has been a factor in the expansion of the defence of human rights, both in its relations with third countries - although there are still some serious contradictions - and above all in its growth process. indeed, the expectation of joining, or of having some sort of privileged association with, the union has been a strong reason that has led to healthy reforms in several countries. more than declarations of a certain content but of uncertain effectiveness, what is required of us is that we are consistent - as a union and as countries - with the values we proclaim. and that is the direction that the participants in this 61st session of the united nations commission on human rights must really bear in mind when they gather there. the world will only be a better place if someone does it for it, and that someone has to be us first. my sense of a yes vote has that meaning.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the fight against hunger and poverty because i believe it is essential that we pay attention to all the measures proposed and initiated to combat this scourge which affects millions of people in the world. i would like to reiterate my deep concern at the delay in meeting the deadlines for the millennium development goals and to recall that debt relief and trade are the key factors to be taken into account when developing measures to finance development. the great challenge we face comes from the difficulty of finding the right solutions to enable transparent and effective aid to the poorest countries. the member states and the commission must continue their work in this direction on an ongoing basis and be attentive to new initiatives, both private and public, which are emerging to help increase the level and effectiveness of aid, to help the poorest countries of the world to forgive their debts and to help international trade to be an instrument for eradicating the root causes of poverty and hunger.
in writing. when a fundamental change in the orientations and objectives of community policies was needed, with the repeal of the stability pact and its replacement by a growth and employment pact, accompanied by a fundamental change in the lisbon strategy, ending the liberalisation and privatisation of essential public sectors and services, in order to give absolute priority to the creation of jobs with rights and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the commission insists on the increasingly liberalising path, with more of the same. when we know that the operating results of large companies in the european union increased by almost 80% on average in 2004, and that the share of profits as a proportion of gdp in the euro area is now approaching its highest level in 25 years, while the share of wages continues to fall, and that both the trade balance and the current account of the euro area have shown positive results in the last 12 months, we cannot accept the overwhelming strategic importance which the commission attaches to competitiveness and to structural economic reforms. it is also unacceptable that the new social policy agenda lacks both the necessary instruments and the appropriate financial resources. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the world social forum and the world economic forum. i believe that globalisation offers a real opportunity for growth and for improving living standards worldwide. i would like to highlight the work of these two outsiders, each in his or her own perspective, on the global issues of the fight against poverty, health, education, trade, agriculture and human rights. i reiterate my conviction that globalisation must be accompanied by increased efforts to reduce poverty, recognising the value of debt cancellation as a measure to combat poverty in countries making progress towards democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and a sustainable economy. i reiterate my conviction that globalisation is a key element in promoting competitiveness and growth in the eu and in developing countries and therefore it seems to me essential to ensure a free and fair trading system at world level. i would also remind you that this is a work done primarily by the wto as the main forum for managing globalisation through trade opening and the strengthening of multilateral rules, as well as the pursuit of sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the parliamentary elections in moldova. in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, moldova continues to pursue reforms of the action plan drawn up to encourage the consolidation of democracy, respect for the values of the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights. the proposed political and institutional reforms will allow for the gradual integration of the country into eu policies and programmes. i therefore reiterate my conviction that the forthcoming elections will be an important test of the commitment of the moldovan authorities to respecting democratic norms. i would also like to remind you with concern that the situation of access to information in moldova is still unresolved and that this parliament expects the next electoral act to be a clear signal that the moldovan government will ensure that the parliamentary elections are free and fair, both on election day and during the election campaign. i am sure that my country, which is home to a large number of moldovan expatriates, will cooperate with the moldovan diplomatic authorities in seeking solutions that will make it easier for as many moldovan immigrants as possible to vote.
in writing. we voted in favour of this important report on the promotion of health and safety at work, which was drawn up by a member of our group and which contains a number of very positive proposals. the statistics included in the communication are alarming: every year 5,200 workers lose their lives as a result of an accident at work. across the eu, approximately 4.8 million accidents at work occur each year. about two thirds of accidents result in more than three days' absence from work and about 14% of workers suffer more than one accident at work per year. this means that every year some 158 million working days are lost and that some 300 000 workers will suffer from various degrees of permanent disability resulting from an accident at work or an occupational disease. the total cost to the economy is estimated to be between 2.6% and 3.8% of gdp. these figures are evidence of the high economic costs of the absence of an adequate social policy, which is a major obstacle to the achievement of the strategic objective of full employment. the framework directive could go further and be more specific... the proposals put forward by the epp are inadmissible. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i congratulate my colleague jiri mastálka on the important report he has produced on the promotion of health and safety at work, which i support, particularly with regard to the need to strengthen the prevention system as a key measure to increase safety at work and reduce the number of accidents at work. at the present time, it is considered essential that the european commission takes stock of the situation of the member states' prevention systems and, in collaboration with the competent national authorities, submits proposals for prevention based on a comprehensive eu strategy. to this end, it is essential to improve the statistical system on industrial accidents, since the absence of reliable and compatible statistics makes it difficult to draw up community policies and to promote them effectively. health and safety at work is one of the most important policies and the building of a society where organisations are safe and healthy has very important positive repercussions on the economy and competitiveness of that society.
in writing. the report in question raises a general question which in itself determines the meaning of the vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of safety and health at work. it is inevitable. and this mental process makes us see with evidence that in these matters what is accepted today will be considered insufficient tomorrow. we are therefore increasingly demanding, and this is a sign of significant progress. that's the first consideration. the report, although i do not entirely share some of its views or in some cases it allows for different priorities, i welcome its content in the main, because its guidelines are similar to mine in this area. in fact, and in view of the above, i believe that the protection of health and safety at work is a prerequisite of civilization which we must defend, and is, in the same sense, an obligation of employers because companies also have social obligations. moreover, the better these conditions are, the higher the productivity, the higher the quality of work and the lower the individual and collective losses. i therefore voted in favour.
as you said, mr president, yesterday, 6 march, in istanbul, a demonstration marking international women's day was brutally suppressed by turkish police forces, and dozens of people were arrested. unfortunately, this act of violence is not isolated. on 26 february a gunman shot at an activist of the turkish workers' party, emep. i therefore support what you have said, mr president, and i ask you to express to the turkish authorities your condemnation of these acts and to demand that the perpetrators be held to account.
mr president, we have received news that the cuban foreign minister is visiting the european union and that he will be received by the president. i don't know if that's true, but we'd like to have that confirmed. if so, we would not even think of expelling him, unlike what the cuban government did to our spanish and dutch colleagues here a few months ago. on the contrary, we think you should be received if you wish to be received. we would like to ask the president to confirm this meeting in three respects. first, that you hand over to the cuban foreign minister the resolution which parliament voted on 17 november last, and which is the position of this parliament on the cuban situation. secondly, if the minister comes here, he comes uninvited. we have nothing against it, but we have invited oswaldo payá sardiñas, 2002 sakharov prize winner, to the european parliament. and it is precisely the government of which he is a member, the cuban government, that does not allow him to come. we therefore asked you very much to insist that we want oswaldo payá to be able to come to the european parliament and discuss the cuban situation with us freely. finally, i would like to ask for the release of political prisoners, for the release of political prisoners in cuba once and for all, and for a general amnesty, in particular for all those who were targeted in the wave of repression in march 2003.
i congratulate you, mr president, on having already taken a position on the sad events that we all saw on television in turkey yesterday, where an international women's day demonstration was brutally suppressed in a manner that is totally incompatible with turkey's commitments when it applied for membership of the european union and with the decision of this parliament and the european institutions to open the negotiating process. mr president, you have called for exemplary sanctions, and sanctions require that not only the agents who acted brutally be investigated, but also those responsible, those who gave the orders. fighting impunity is essential to promoting human rights. this is one of the many examples of turkey being fertile, as was recently seen with the death of a kurdish child, ugur kaymaz, who was masked by the police. the commission and the council must also send a clear message to turkey that this is incompatible with its commitments to negotiate accession and that respect for human rights does not just mean changing the law, but means respecting it in practice.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i think that this report is relatively consensual, but that cannot prevent us from looking at some fundamental questions which go beyond the report itself, beyond the eib's own activity. the excellent cooperation between the european parliament and the eib over the past five years has already been mentioned. the eib, as we know, and it is mentioned in the report, is an institution which has been in existence for a long time - since the founding of the communities - but which has only been working in collaboration with the european parliament for five years and this cooperation has resulted, as the rapporteur has said, in fruitful activity and some very important developments. i would therefore say that this relative success story is significant and noteworthy, in that the eib is one of the major financial institutions in europe, set up by the member states with the mission of financing directly or by leveraging private resources the investments and policies needed to achieve the main objectives set out in the treaties. the report under consideration takes note of this, of course, but it mainly sets out the bank's activities in a dynamic perspective, recognising that the effectiveness of its actions and the improvement of the transparency of its operation must gradually improve in parallel with the debate in parliament. it must be acknowledged that the bank's activities have been progressively adapted to the concrete circumstances and the european economic environment and that this adaptation has been made by the institution without prejudice to the full and respectful fulfilment of its real mandate. it is therefore easy to identify a set of principles and rules, or if you will, suggestions, which the bank should follow to strengthen its activity and which will help to understand its action better and will certainly help to build better intervention in the future. the first is that this institution can and must play an increasing role in the development of the european economy, particularly in times of recession, by directing its resources and policies towards economic growth and cohesion. the second principle is that the eib has a major multiplier effect in mobilising private or quasi-public resources, by encouraging the participation of all economic operators on acceptable risk terms, either through risk capital operations or through the granting of guarantees. the third idea is that it is also the bank's responsibility to assess the effective contribution of its policy to the lisbon strategy, which means that the bank should take care to measure the results of its actions from this perspective and immediately make them known to public opinion. the fourth principle is that the bank's activities must have a concrete and measurable effect on job creation and a positive and favourable impact on the economic environment which also limits and conditions the full development of small and mediumsized enterprises. the fifth idea is that, as the bank is responsible for supporting the european economy as a whole, it should give particular importance to supporting scientific research and high-technology sectors. the sixth principle is that all this is not incompatible, but on the contrary, with the eib's constant commitment to transparency and accountability of its action, which is demanded by public opinion and has been built up in dialogue with the european parliament. mr president, mr lipietz has put forward a very sensible initial proposal and it has made it possible to draw up a final report of a high quality and a broad consensus which i believe deserves the support of this house.
mr president, we all remember, at least those of us who were present in the parliamentary debates on this matter in the last legislature, the emphasis placed on initiatives to improve the organisation, punctuality and safety of air navigation and air traffic control services and, in particular, the creation of the single european sky and its regulations. while not ignoring that the management of the complex air transport system and its traffic control must be seen in a broader and more global perspective, which includes not only atm services but also airlines and airports, we recognize that this directive complements an important aspect of the single sky, which is the harmonization of the provisions for the licensing of training of air traffic controllers in the european area and thus facilitating their mobility and also the provision of air traffic control services as i said on a cross-border basis. but it is also important to clarify the legal status of licences issued by member states under their national legislation before the entry into force of this new directive, to guarantee their holders the necessary legal certainty and to prevent their retroactive application. that is why it is important that an amendment to this effect has been adopted in committee, and it is hoped that it will now be accepted by the house with the adoption of this report. we also welcome the reference made by our fellow rapporteur, whom i congratulate on his excellent report, to the fact that in his contacts with representatives of the interests involved he was able to conclude that both workers and industry - the commissioner has already mentioned this - were in agreement and even expressed their congratulations on the introduction of a uniform european air traffic controller licence. this also allows us to conclude that the economic aspects, but above all the social aspects, of the single european sky, including vocational training, have not been neglected by either the commission or our parliament. i hope, mr president, that this initiative, when implemented by the member states, will fully achieve all the objectives for which it was set up and that, in particular, it will constitute a real opportunity to increase the efficiency of atm services and the safety of air transport for the benefit of its users, who are, after all, all of us.
on behalf of the pse group, mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also had the pleasure of being part of the european parliament delegation to the fourth world conference on the beijing platform and i would like to congratulate the luxembourg presidency on its firm stand in defence of the right positions. the un secretary-general warned that 201 million women remain without access to contraceptive methods and pointed to the lack of reproductive and sexual health services as the cause of one third of deaths from problems during pregnancy and childbirth. in addition, there are indeed new discriminations in our time. when a woman has to choose between breastfeeding her child or maintaining her position as head of the family, when a woman has to choose between accompanying her children when they are sick or risking being fired, when a woman finds that the company is more understanding if she is asked to leave early to pick up her car for a repair rather than to pick up her child from the nursery, all this speaks to the mentality of those with economic power and to the devaluation of the tasks traditionally assigned to women. i welcome the good intentions expressed here by both the council and the commission, but i would like to see us move from words to deeds and to see what concrete measures the commission and the council are going to take to combat this state of affairs, and i am not talking about the situation of women in poor countries, the muslim woman, in a poor country in africa or asia, subject to the arbitrary will of a corrupt despot or some terrorist fanatics, where it is not to live, it is to die slowly, as we also had the example, which has already been mentioned, of the women in turkey, for whom i wish to express my solidarity. these are the questions. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, women continue to be the main victims of discrimination, unemployment, violence, poverty and social exclusion and are excluded from representative participation in decision-making and power. that is why the celebration of 8 march, international women's day, a day of struggle for the human rights of women, who are an integral, inalienable and indivisible part of universal human rights, still disturbs many politicians and many governments, as happened in turkey, with police violence against a demonstration of women and even more unacceptable, because it is a country that wants to join the european union. it is unacceptable that unemployment continues to rise in the member states because of increasingly neoliberal policies, that precarious work is rampant in the name of labour flexibility and competitiveness, that wage discrimination persists, that human trafficking and prostitution persist, that violence is the daily reality of millions of women in the european union without adequate measures being taken to change the situation. it is also unacceptable that sexual and reproductive health and rights, guaranteed in the beijing platform for action, continue to be called into question, as in portugal, where women accused of illegal abortion have been subjected to the vexation of trials in court and threats of imprisonment of up to three years for upholding an unjust and unjust law, which is a real attack on women's dignity. let this debate therefore contribute to further progress in the solidarity struggle for women's rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the social situation is known to be worsening and is already very worrying, with almost 20 million unemployed and some 70 million people living below the poverty line, particularly women, the elderly and children. as for unemployment, with an average rate of around 9%, although it reaches 10% for women and over 18% for young people, the situation is particularly serious in poland, with almost 19% unemployment, followed by slovakia, lithuania and spain. but in other countries, such as portugal, there are regions where the unemployment rate is very high due to increasing deindustrialization, the relocation of multinationals, the privatization of public sectors and services. however, existing employment is becoming more precarious and women are the main victims of precariousness. on average in the european union, only one in three full-time and permanent jobs is held by women, who also continue to be victims of direct and indirect wage discrimination, with pay differences ranging on average from 16% to 30%, and in some countries even higher. this situation shows that the strategies defined for the growth of quality employment with rights are not enough, because in the name of competitiveness the dogmas of neoliberalism, the priorities of the european central bank, the irrational application of the nominal convergence criteria of the stability pact, the acceleration of liberalization and privatization, flexibility and labour deregulation have been insisted on. the stability pact must therefore be repealed and replaced by a genuine development and employment pact that gives priority to the growth of quality jobs with rights, that focuses on the thorough revision of the lisbon strategy, eliminating liberalisation and labour deregulation, giving full priority to employment with rights and social inclusion. it is noted that some 22 million new jobs with entitlements are needed to achieve the 70% target for overall employment set in lisbon in 2010. otherwise, instead of moving towards economic, social and territorial cohesion, we have a worsening of inequalities, whether between countries or within population strata. we already have several member states with average per capita incomes below 51% of the community average and 10 countries, however, with values above 100% of the european union average. on the other hand, the top 20% of the population receive five times as much as the bottom 20%, although this indicator varies between 3% in denmark and 6.5% in portugal and has worsened in recent years. these inequalities cannot continue when 15% of the population of the european union is at risk of poverty and in some countries this situation reaches 20% or more, as in portugal, greece and ireland. only social protection and social security benefits prevent this situation from worsening. without social transfers, including pensions and other support, the risk of poverty would on average reach 30% of the population in finland, 37% in portugal, 40% in france and the united kingdom and 42% in italy. with the increase in unemployment in recent times and the decline in social support in some member states, the situation of poverty and social exclusion is probably even more serious than the statistics show, which raises the question of the priority to be given to social inclusion in the various community policies, and in particular in monetary and internal market policy, in order to defend quality public services. the commission must therefore withdraw its proposal for a directive on the creation of the internal market in services and not insist on new regulations on the organization of working time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company registering as a member of the european union. the new social policy agenda cannot be a mere collection of words and statements without practical content. i hope that there will be a debate on these issues. i thank all those who contributed to the preparation of this report and i hope that it will be adopted, without the amendments envisaged in some of the proposals put forward by members of the epp and the liberals, because we need more employment, more social inclusion so that this european union can talk about economic and social cohesion without just listing empty words, but that it can move towards a reality of better well-being for all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report we are given on the social situation in europe is a blatant distortion of reality. i therefore think that this is an unbalanced report. the text emphasizes all the negative aspects, which we recognize still exist in terms of social exclusion, unemployment and the existence of poverty spots, but at the same time it deliberately ignores all the aspects mentioned by the commission. where it highlights the positive aspects, one can also identify a development in the social situation in europe. i'll mention five missions that i consider serious; first, it is omitted that during the last decade most of the 25 member states have made progress in employment, output growth and cohesion. secondly, the commission's statement that the totalitarian regimes in eight of the new ten member states are the main cause of the social problems is deliberately omitted. thirdly, there is not a single word about the opportunities that will open up for the new member states with accession to the european union. fourthly, the report ignores all the complexity that results from the phenomenon of globalisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe the opposite, that economic dynamism, price stability and cost reduction are not enemies but allies of the development of the european social model. in short, the text of the report under consideration gives a very reductive view of the european social reality, with the intention of some demagogy. moreover, symptomatic of the ideological influence of the report is the fact that at no point is the proven superiority of the social market economy over planned economy models recognised.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by greeting commissioner mandelson. the generalized system of preferences has been an important instrument in supporting developing countries by stimulating their participation in world trade. this openness stems from the responsibility of the european union as the world's leading trading bloc and is inconsistent with the positions taken in the world trade organisation and the dahoa process. since last january, within the framework of the wto, imports from china in particular have been entering the european area without barriers. perhaps too aggressively. i say perhaps because i must take this opportunity to regret that neither the guidelines nor the actual import measurement systems are available, although they are a commission commitment for 2004. in the meantime, i welcome the european union's rapid response to the dramatic consequences of the tsunami. the amendment of the rules of origin which is now under way will also strengthen the opening up of the european market to textile exports from developing countries. subjecting the world's poorest countries to the combined and simultaneous effect of the liberalisation of textile imports from china and to a not sufficiently selective treatment that would welcome major world textile powers such as india under preferential treatment would probably mean the break-up and the final disaggregation of these economies and regions. i am sorry to hear that commissioner mandelson is not sensitive to this problem. the perverse effect of the stronger countries crushing the weaker ones once and for all, under the instrument which was intended precisely to support their development, must be considered and analysed, but it is also essential in europe that the opening up of low-cost countries to textile imports be accompanied by reciprocity on the part of the beneficiary countries and the gradual adoption of fairer trade rules in social, environmental and intellectual property terms, as proposed by the high level textile group. let us be clear: while it is true that rapid adaptation of the european textile regions is indispensable, it is necessary to prevent this adaptation from turning into a sudden breakdown of the economic and social structure in the european textile regions, with very serious consequences, particularly in terms of unemployment.
i would like to say that there are some translation problems in some language versions and i would therefore ask the bureau to take into account the french version of paragraph 5 and the portuguese version of paragraph 8 and recital m.
in writing. an open economy requires clear regulation, which is enforceable and designed to be verifiable and enforceable. in the matter at hand - the conditions of access to the natural gas transmission networks - it is important to ensure non-discrimination in order to ensure that the internal market functions properly. in view of these concerns, i should like to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the internal market in natural gas can only function effectively if network access conditions across the single market meet certain minimum standards with regard to the fundamental aspects of third party access. these rules are essential to ensure fair and balanced conditions and to enable new market entrants, and in particular small enterprises, to exploit business opportunities. conditions for access to the network should not discriminate between network users of different scale, as this could lead to distortion of competition and in any event would prevent gas consumers from benefiting equitably from the internal market in natural gas. the measures now adopted provide users requesting access to the network with a sufficient level of transparency to enable them to conduct their business, otherwise business opportunities arising from market developments in the short and long term could not be exploited. the amendments to the regulation are aimed at promoting non-discrimination and competition by clarifying basic principles, which is why i voted in favour of the compromise amendments (block 1) and i am glad that this can lead to the adoption of the regulation.
in writing. the european union cannot be just an area of free movement of capital, goods and services. europe must also offer the possibility of residing, working and moving freely without prejudice to the rights of its citizens. regulation 1408/71 plays an important role in achieving this objective. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading on the common position adopted by the council. regulation 1408/71, which came into force more than three decades ago, sets out the basis on which citizens moving between two member states may receive social benefits. the revision of the current regulation contains several new provisions to strengthen social security rights and allows for the determination of whether a citizen retains his right to specific benefits established by the home member state and which are exportable or whether he will have access to an equivalent benefit in his new member state of residence. however, i regret that the council did not agree to the inclusion of five benefits for disabled people and their families. these should be taken into account in the next revision of the regulation.
in writing. although this is a second reading and therefore there will be no final vote, i think it is useful to explain why i voted against the proposal to reject the common position. as portugal has argued, and in view of the position of the european court of justice, it is essential that the content of annex ii a to regulation 1408/71 be deleted in order to ensure the exportability of certain benefits which are of the greatest relevance to the interests of portuguese emigrants, since if these special non-contributory benefits were included there, they could not be exported, thus causing serious damage to our emigrants.
in writing. the freedom of movement of workers within the union is somewhat limited by the fact that the member states advocate different interpretations and formulae of social security schemes, which is natural in a community which is plural and not centralised. i do, however, recognise the need to establish a basis which will enable a citizen of one member state to move and reside in another without thereby being completely deprived of the social guarantees and benefits to which he was previously entitled. unfortunately, the 'exportability' of five non-contributory benefits (childcare allowance, invalidity allowance and allowance for the care of a disabled child, maintenance allowance for a disabled person, for permanent care and for assistance provided to a dependent person) remains controversial, a hypothesis regrettably denied by some countries (finland, sweden and the united kingdom), in contravention of the principle of the extra-territorial payment of benefits (article 42 of the treaty) and prejudicing workers returning to their countries of origin. it may be for the court of justice to decide on this matter, as the commission may so declare. in line with the portuguese government's position, i voted against amendment no 2, which would mean the rejection of the common position, and in favour of amendment no 1, which takes note of the statement made by the commission on the possible clarifying appeal to the court of justice.
in writing. in the light of the european parliament's proposed amendments to the european commission's proposal, it will be important to highlight, among other aspects, and following the opinions expressed by industry professionals:- the criticism of the intention to add to the responsibilities of an air traffic controller competences that go beyond his functions, such as those linked to 'unexpected crisis situations (e.g. aircraft diversion, bomb threats).' - criticism of the opening up of the possibility for controllers 'who operate under the responsibility of air navigation service providers' (asps) not to be their employees. do you have a fragile bond? are they employees of one company working for another? under what conditions? can a controller work without being an employee of the air navigation service provider? with what consequences? finally, the consideration that, even if more or less clearly stated, in some of the european parliament's proposals there is still an implicit openness to previous and current projects linked to the 'single european sky', i.e. to the liberalisation and subsequent privatisation of air traffic management.
in writing. the report in question, which i voted in favour of, is part of the amendment to which i am a supporter and which seeks to ensure that the rights acquired by the current air traffic controllers - rights acquired under valid, demanding legislation with obviously positive results - are respected, without in any way calling into question the highest value of air transport safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the proposal for a directive, which follows the legislative package on the single european sky, aims to harmonise the member states' legal provisions on the training and exercise of the profession of air traffic controller, which is particularly relevant and prominent today. the adoption of common standards of competence and training, based on international criteria, could benefit the circulation of these professionals on the european market, increase the recruitment base available to each employer and contribute to achieving an identical level of safety throughout the european union. the vote in favour of the report in committee shows that the proposal is highly technical and that the majority of the committee supports it. i voted yes.
in writing. the european investment bank is, and should be, one of the instruments of the european union's development policy. the work it does, the credit it provides and the terms on which it does it, the technical support it provides, all these elements are part and parcel of a type of development intervention which deserves our agreement. the commission's work is also of a political nature and is geared to the development objectives of the programme, which justifies its presentation to the european parliament. for both reasons, and without this vote being a commitment to all the eib's actions, i believe that the report deserves a vote in favour.
in writing. the european investment bank is a privileged instrument of the european union and its economy. the own investments it has developed and the individuals it has empowered give it a key status in the objective of making europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. the dynamism of the european investment bank's activities, particularly in the private sector, has enabled it to mobilise new sources of finance, in particular through risk capital instruments and the granting of guarantees. this gives us the necessary assurance that the european investment bank will continue to play a crucial role in the union's institutional framework in financing small and medium-sized enterprises, thus contributing to the creation of a sound economy that creates more and better jobs and fosters sustainable growth. the eib should therefore give priority to strengthening its lending to small businesses, setting precise rules for the evaluation of their projects, improving access to risk capital for smes and facilitating access to its activities by local and regional financial partners. i voted yes.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mrs ilda figueiredo, on her report on the social situation in the european union. it makes a critical diagnosis of this, supported by statistical data which illustrate well the social inequalities that persist in the eu, exacerbated by the recent enlargement. i agree with the call for: - giving the utmost priority to tackling the problems of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and to creating sustainable, quality and entitled employment; - taking this reality into account in the definition of the broad economic policy guidelines, and in particular in the reform of the stability pact and the revision of the lisbon strategy, as well as in the decision on the financial perspectives and the structural funds for 2007-2013; and - supporting the structural development of the most disadvantaged regions, in particular the outermost regions. among the measures proposed, i would like to highlight those which promote equality and combat discrimination in the area of women's rights, given that today is international women's day. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to combat poverty, such as the 'minimum income' which is vital to the fight against poverty, since portugal had a pioneering experience in this respect under the previous socialist government, with recognised positive results, with the so-called 'minimum guaranteed income'.
in writing. we regret that this report has been rejected by the right-wing majority of the european parliament, which is disturbed by the fact that social problems are being discussed, that it is not acceptable to denounce the causes and that it rejects any attempt to change the policies of neoliberalism. the epp, accompanied on several points by the liberals, has therefore tried to tamper with the report in its key points from the outset. the commission has not been able to do so in the committee on employment and social affairs, but it has been able to do so in the plenary, in particular in the following respects: - withdrawing criticism of the lisbon strategy as regards its contribution to accelerating liberalization/privatisation, labour flexibility and job insecurity; - insisting on the importance of the lisbon strategy for the future, without any revision, despite the current problems of unemployment and social exclusion; - removing references to the need for a review of current economic and financial policies, in particular the stability pact, the lisbon strategy, the internal market and competition policy, and giving priority to the pursuit of a high employment rate, sustainable, quality and rights-based employment; - rejecting, as the ps did, our request to the commission to withdraw the proposal for a directive on the creation of an internal market for services... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. neither the fact that the author is portuguese nor the fact that she is speaking on the social situation in europe is sufficient to make me vote in favour of this report. in fact, more than a national or a social brand, the report in question registers a heavy ideological brand which, with all due respect, i have considered for several years to be deeply wrong. on the one hand there are those who believe more in the effectiveness of the state as a creator of social equality, and on the other there are those who believe that freedom regulated by a less intrusive state but more rigorous in ensuring the application of the law is the model to follow. i'm part of the seconds. the main issue here is the economy. and i argue that a productive economy creates more wealth, creates more jobs, creates more opportunities and allows for better distribution. the idea that a country full of subsidies and public jobs is sustainable is an illusion and the right path to greater social injustice.
in writing. the objective of making europe the most competitive and dynamic economy cannot be divorced from social concerns, and growth must be supported by policies that promote greater social cohesion. i therefore support measures to support the family, to reduce inequalities between countries, to tackle the birth rate problem, to examine the consequences of the services directive on the labour market, to encourage vocational training and to create small and mediumsized enterprises. unlike the rapporteur, i do not believe that the european social problems can be solved without taking account of price stability, cost reduction and the budget deficit. i do not believe that the key to combating poverty and social exclusion lies solely in the social economy, but rather that the incentives for private enterprise should be the driving force behind any economy and the solutions to its social problems. finally, i believe that the solution to europe's demographic problem should be found, preferably, through policies to encourage births rather than emigration. unfortunately, the maximalism of the positions of the rapporteur and her group led to the rejection of this report. it is a pity, because this is a serious problem which merited the adoption of appropriate recommendations, but more realistic, objective and balanced ones.
nuclear weapons are illegal and immoral. five years ago the world rejoiced at the historic consensus reached on the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. a significant milestone for world peace, as kofi annan said. five years later, on the eve of the next treaty review conference, the picture is frighteningly different. the united states has changed its position on the commitments it has made and the present administration is even announcing the development of new nuclear weapons technologies involving astronomical sums. the united states and other nuclear-weapon states party to the treaty have not since respected the commitments to disarmament, nor have they shown any sign of wanting to reduce their nuclear arsenals. the united states still has 480 nuclear weapons stationed in europe and has not ratified the ctbt. and the result is that other states parties do not feel like they are also bound by the commitments under the npt after the invasion of iraq, under the false pretext of the existence of weapons of mass destruction. possessing or making believe that one possesses nuclear weapons has come to be regarded, if not perceived, as a factor of deterrence and self-protection. states such as israel, india and pakistan, also possessing nuclear weapons, remain outside the treaty and thus see no incentive or even feel pressured to become a party. more worryingly, north korea is trying to withdraw from the treaty and blackmail the international community. we have even seen this status invoked in the argument for permanent members of the security council. according to the united nations high-level panel on threats, hazards and challenges, we are now at the point where the erosion of the non-proliferation regime may become irreversible and result in cascading proliferation. we know that there is, on top of that, a high risk of nuclear materials falling into the hands of terrorists, in many cases not even controlled by states. cascade proliferation can only be prevented if the international community joins forces in effective multilateral solutions. and the next npt review is an opportunity that cannot be missed. the european union can and must play a decisive role in making the treaty operational with a permanent bureau and for this it must go through coordination with the countries in the european union which have nuclear weapons, so that there can be real coordinated action under the terms of the cfsp and the esdp. given the situation of real emergency of absolute priority, the european parliament should send a mission to accompany the european intervention at the conference, thereby assuming a role of monitoring the action of the member states and promoting the effort of the treaty in line with ... (the president cut the speaker off)
clarification and accountability. this is the balance that should characterize the position of this parliament and the union on the events in lebanon. clarity on the urgency of an independent and international investigation into the circumstances, causes and effects surrounding the assassination of the former prime minister. it is also clear that we must show our sympathy for the democratic, peaceful and intercommunal movement which is calling for the full sovereignty of lebanon and the holding of democratic elections. finally, it clarifies the requirement for the withdrawal of syrian military troops and intelligence, in accordance with the taif agreements and the un security council resolution. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in lebanon, but that we should be concerned about the situation in lebanon. it is this responsibility which leads my group to ask for a separate vote on paragraphs 6 and 7 of the compromise resolution. firstly because of the syrian question. the withdrawal to the bekaa valley, as envisaged in the taif agreements, is objectively a step which must be valued and the demand for an end to any external interference cannot be directed at a single person. israel still occupies lebanese land and neither france nor the united states are really disinterested actors, particularly the latter, which for years and years have given cover to the syrian military tutelage in lebanon and which now, because they have the strongest military apparatus in the region, want to treat syria with the subtlety of an elephant in a porcelain shop. for peace and stability, it's another disaster in the making. secondly, the issue of hezbollah. there is no force that i can feel more distant from, but the demonization of the so-called "party of god" and its remission to a strict dependence on syria is not wise or true. hezbollah does not fight with anti-terrorist lists, but by committing its political wing to the democratic process. it is being fought by attacking the brutal social inequalities in lebanon and by resolving the conflicts arising from the israeli occupation of land in a just way. europe must be an alternative to blind and forceful policies in the region.
the next item is the commission communication on services in the internal market and the patentability of computer software.
i believe, commissioner, that it was intended that you should have spoken on both these subjects, since we have members who are registered to ask you about them: the services directive you have mentioned, but also the question of software patentability. i would therefore ask you to complete your statement and then we will open the debate to all members.
commissioner, your communications have aroused great interest on the part of members. we have a lot of people registered and we only have 20 minutes for interventions. i give the floor for a minute and i would appreciate everyone's cooperation so that as many colleagues as possible can speak.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that this directive on services is important for the services market in the european union, but to do that we need to strip it of what needs to be changed and there are many fundamental things that need to be changed. first of all, clarification of the services to which it applies. i said earlier that health services were outside it and i think there are health services which should be subject to market laws and they should be competed for by service providers from any of the member states. but on the other hand, i think that if we leave out services of general interest, we would have to define what those services are. is the commission prepared to present a framework law in time to be taken into account when we look at the directive? another aspect to be mentioned is that of the country of origin. obviously it has to be changed. it can be applied to the setting up of companies and the start of activity, but as a basic principle it has to be changed. i would ask you, commissioner, if there are fundamental changes, would it not be better to withdraw this directive as it stands, and the commission, as the initiator, to put forward a new proposal which is more suited to serving the interests of the union?
the bureau has already extended the debate beyond what was possible, taking into account the time schedule. we should have started question period by now. since there were many members who had registered, we have extended the debate, but at the moment it is not possible to extend it any further. we shall now resume the normal order of the debate.
our understanding of this matter is divergent. the services will then distribute the list of speakers by nationality to see whether or not there has been a balance.
i will certainly pass on the recommendation to the bureau so that everything can be clarified. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report (b6­0019/2005). we are discussing the questions to the commission today. part one
question no 16 by bill newton dunn (h-0140/05) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: ten most wanted criminals in the european union in order to help raise public awareness of the widespread successes of organised crime groups, which cross the internal borders of the union with impunity, engaging in smuggling and contraband, while our police authorities are national and cannot cross these borders and make arrests, and in order to reinforce the message to the public that the union must work in a cohesive manner, would the commission be prepared to encourage the periodic publication, perhaps by europol, of a list of the 'ten most wanted criminals in the union'?
question no 17 by mr paul rübig (h-0135/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: safety in air transport since 11 september 2001, hand luggage has been subject to strict security checks. this measure is necessary and important. however, there are cases where travellers misunderstand: for example, they are taken from the 4 cm nail clippers and they are taken from the handbags of commonly used nail clippers. given that knives and forks served on board aircraft pose a potentially much higher safety risk, the question arises as to what characteristics make an item dangerous for aviation safety and whether it should be removed from cabin baggage.
question no 18 by mrs inés ayala sender (h-0142/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: closure of the french-spanish border to heavy goods vehicle traffic through the somport tunnel as the commission was informed by letter of 10 february 2005, a landslide on the rn-134 in the aspe valley, european e-07 axis, has prevented the movement of vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes between spain and france through the somport tunnel, the only public passenger and freight tunnel in the pyrenees for more than 200 km, since 9 february 2005. according to the french authorities, the traffic will not be restored for three months, which constitutes a serious obstacle to the principle of free movement of persons and goods and high costs that impede competition on equal terms. the negative impact on the already fragile economies of the regions on both sides of the border is at present incalculable (large diversions to trucks and buses, ski resorts and empty holiday centres, particularly on the french side). what steps is the commission taking to ensure that the french authorities, in the light of past experience, speed up the work as much as possible in order to avoid greater damage to the economies of these areas and to ensure free movement? does the commission not consider that, in the face of such unthinkable events, it is urgent to implement ten project 16 on the section of the 'central pyrenees crossing' (vignemale crossing)?
the commission has informed you that, in the absence of commissioners mandelson and kallas, the commission will be represented for the next questions by commissioners kovács and piebalgs, whose presence i thank. second part
question no 19 by david martin (h-0124/05) subject: counterfeiting and trade with russia and china what measures does the commission intend to take to reduce the flow of counterfeits from russia and china?
question no 20 by mr claude moraes (h-0127/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: commercial concessions to assist developing countries what plans does the commissioner responsible for trade have to monitor the effectiveness of the package of very positive measures which have been taken in the form of trade concessions and announced as aid to developing countries, including those which have recently been hit by the asian tsunami catastrophe? what is the assessment of the commissioner responsible for trade on the generalized system of preferences (gsp) as regards trade with developing countries?
question no 21 by mr josu ortuondo larrea (h-0128/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: comparative disadvantage of european tool manufacturers in the united states due to excess import duties tool companies have little opportunity to grow in their national markets and in the community market itself. the situation of these companies, many of which are local producers, is becoming increasingly difficult because of the increasing number of imports. one way in which europe can protect its businesses and jobs in the long term is by exporting to other continents. the north american market in particular offers excellent opportunities for the export of innovative and first-class european tools. but in addition to the risks arising from fluctuating exchange rates, the abnormally high import duties imposed by the us on the entry of these products (ranging from 5.5% to 12%) constitute an unacceptable disadvantage in the field of competition with local producers. in this context, it should be taken into account that the import duty for tools imported from the usa to europe is only 1,7%. in the case of developing countries, the existence of different customs duties for imports and exports will be designed to protect the local economy. but in the case of the united states, there is no reason for such discrimination against european manufacturers. is the commission aware of this situation? will the commission state what measures it intends to take to remedy this apparently unfair situation?
mr president, this debate is taking place at a particularly difficult time in the social situation in the european union. we are a long way from the economic growth and employment of the late 1990s, which were the result of the restrictive economic and financial policies, the stability pact, the liberalisation and accelerated privatisation envisaged by the lisbon strategy. today, with growing social and territorial inequalities, unemployment reaching almost 20 million workers, increasing precariousness in employment and some 70 million people living in poverty, inclusion and social cohesion must be a priority, a central concern of this mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, which implies not only the creation of jobs with rights, but also a fairer sharing of the wealth created, with social policies focused on ensuring human rights, better pensions and reforms, quality public services in health, education, research and vocational training, social protection and security, housing and family support facilities, with particular attention to promoting equal rights for women and taking into account appropriate environmental policies. instead, the president of the commission, mr barroso, came here to say that the lisbon strategy is at the heart of economic policies, following the conclusions of the wim kok report, which places particular emphasis on competitiveness. what is needed, as our group's resolution says, is to stop this neoliberal race, to increase public investment at eu and national level, to put an end to the privatisation of public sectors and services, to withdraw the proposal for a directive on the creation of the internal market in services, to repeal the stability pact, to draw a clear distinction between current expenditure and investment and to commit to a development and employment pact that gives priority to the growth of jobs with rights, social inclusion, economic, social and territorial cohesion, the only way to contribute to the creation of the 22 million jobs with rights that are needed to reach the 70% rate for 2010 envisaged in the lisbon strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they want more social protection and better social policy, and that is the challenge, mr president.
madam president, mr president of the commission, the text of the recommendation reiterates a rhetoric of general principles already acquired exactly where an articulated outline of concrete measures to be taken would be desirable. it would seem that everyone agrees on the objectives, but few know what to do to achieve them. a knowledge-based economy presupposes, as the text says, a highly qualified education, but there is no reference to the fact that a highly qualified education must be based on a school course of high quality, from the first years of schooling. since various deficiencies are known in primary and secondary education in most countries, it is regrettable that the recommendation does not invite the member states to examine this aspect and to urgently seek a solution to it. this document points to the future and the future cannot be without this solution. on the other hand, the need to mobilise european public opinion to persuade it of the advantages of the lisbon strategy and to get it to join them is emphasised, but not a single word is said about cultural policies, either at european or national level. we are talking about a culture of dialogue, but we are not even talking about a dialogue of cultures. the internalization by each european citizen of the need for and benefits of the lisbon strategy must be above all a cultural attitude. culture is not only an essential dimension of democracy, it is also the framework that will allow us to measure the distance from failure to success in a strategy such as the lisbon strategy, especially if we want to preserve the european social model. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. without them, the lisbon strategy will remain little more than a sympathetic cast of good intentions.
in writing. the relationship that has developed between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries deserves our recognition and our applause. for reasons both of history and of a simple sense of international responsibility, these countries have a special significance and importance for a large majority of the member states in particular and for the european union as a whole. the importance and usefulness of this relationship, which is reflected in the activities of the joint parliamentary assembly, require that it be true to and consistent with the principles which the european union has defended and regularly called for. good relations between the two parties are more than desirable, they are imperative, but they are only possible - and useful - if they are based on a logic of defending the values in which we believe and if, consequently, the european union does not hesitate to criticise and to take the necessary consequences in cases where the countries in question do not comply with their international obligations or with those of their own nationals. in general, this has been the case, despite the disagreement we have had the opportunity to express in cases such as cuba and angola. still, my vote is in favor.
in writing. the unanimous vote on this report in the special committee illustrates the growing importance which this parliament, from right to left, has been attaching to relations with the parliaments of the acp countries and their members, which are fundamental in a europe which wants to be open to the world and is committed to strengthening dialogue with its strategic partners, in line with historical ties. i welcome the significant progress made in the internal organisation, external action and institutional influence of the joint parliamentary assembly during the past year and wish it to continue and strengthen itself. i welcome the recognition of the need to address the issue of post-conflict situations together and i am grateful for the trust placed in me as co-rapporteur on this matter. despite the reasons for satisfaction mentioned, i cannot help but criticize, once again, the fact that, in the sessions of the joint parliamentary assembly, the use of portuguese and the provision of interpretation in this language - which, it should be recalled, is the third european language of universal communication - are repeatedly neglected in relation to other languages (ultra-minority languages in the acp context), preventing portuguese-speaking members of parliament from being on an equal footing with the other members of the assembly. i voted yes.
in writing. the current generalized system of preferences (gsp) is based on a logic that contains a contradiction: that it is through the liberalization of international trade - an export-promoting model, regulated at world level, with a 'centre' and a 'periphery' - that development is promoted. a logic which denies fair international relations and aid to the development of the endogenous factors of the economically less developed countries, without which - between the theft of external debt and the imposition of the interests of the large multinationals of the usa, the eu and japan - they will continue to have a peripheral and subordinate status. trade is a component of development, but it is by far not the most important. the gsp guarantees preferential access to products from some 178 countries. the current proposal anticipates its entry into force date and opens the gsp to products of particular sensitivity for portugal (tuna canned, tomato concentrate, textiles and clothing). textiles and clothing are particularly affected, in particular by the existence of a high graduation threshold for the sector. this and other negative aspects need to be changed, otherwise there will be serious consequences for the national productive sector, with the social and economic consequences that follow.
in writing. the gsp should be understood as both a trade policy instrument and a development support instrument, while international trade is certainly one of the most powerful engines of development and growth in any economy. in this sense, and as the rapporteur expressly states in his explanatory statement, 'the gsp should therefore be consistent with the objectives of development policy and compatible with the doha programme'. the doha round is indeed an important step forward towards a more open, fairer world economy and this understanding should, as the report proposes, be present in the gsp. finally, i understand that the speed with which the gsp was changed to respond to the aftermath of the tsunami should be applauded.
in writing. the graduation mechanism introduced allows the gsp to be withdrawn from countries which are competitive on the community market and which no longer need the preferential system to promote their exports. the mechanism also plays a key role in regulating trade flows in textiles and clothing, which is of the utmost importance for the defence of the european textile industry, given the abolition of tariff quotas on 31 december 2004. i also believe that one of the areas of promoting sustainable development is the improvement of the economic situation of developing countries, particularly those countries which are least integrated into the international trading system. the most vulnerable developing countries, therefore, which bear special burdens and responsibilities due to the ratification and implementation of the basic conventions on human and workers' rights, will benefit from additional tariff preferences under the gsp, which i welcome. finally, the simplification achieved by reducing the number of schemes from five to three, with a general scheme, a special scheme to encourage sustainable development and good governance and a special scheme for the least developed countries (everything but arms) should be noted. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr valdis dombrovskis (a6-0043/2005) on the guidelines for sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii (a) and viii (b) and the preliminary draft estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament (section i) for the 2006 budgetary procedure, as i agree with the main points of the assessments and proposals submitted, particularly as regards consolidation and preparation for the next enlargement and the efficient and rational use of appropriations. i would also like to stress my agreement with the specific questions of vocational training, particularly in the field of translation and interpretation. i think it is essential to ensure that members of this parliament actively participate in their mother tongue, thus ensuring equal treatment for all members. finally, i would like to draw attention to the increased responsibilities of the european parliament in the legislative decision-making process which will obviously require better management of existing resources and the allocation of higher resources to support our work.
in writing. the report highlights the areas where it is most important to ensure that the available appropriations are reinforced and properly used. it seems to be peaceful that the challenge of enlargement represents a continuous and determined effort, and that it is therefore necessary to ensure the speediest integration of new staff into the structure of the institutions, with the acceleration proposed to the secretary-general, as well as the allocation of resources for an increase in the number of interpreters and for the improvement of the general working conditions at the premises of committees increase in the number of rooms and computer resources. the proposed incentive for the plans to clarify the nomenclature of the budgets of the other institutions is to be welcomed. the transparency and comprehensibility of data (as i have said on other occasions) are essential conditions for accountability and effectiveness in budgetary matters. i welcome the proposal to adopt eco-efficiency criteria for administrative management and also the encouragement to adopt much more ambitious information and communication policies. this is one of the points i repeatedly make in every draft budget, because i believe it is essential to bring europe - its projects, plans and actions - ever closer to the citizens.
in writing. good democracy is based on full and maximum respect for the rights of citizens, respect which historically has included the right of citizens to petition parliamentary assemblies. this practice, which may at times seem of little use, is above all a sign of democratic humility and a willingness to listen to the citizens, which are the most important characteristics of a democratic society. the existence of the committee on petitions in the european parliament and the work it has done deserve our public's recognition.
in writing. the most common criticism of the current state of the european integration process is that of the divorce between decision-makers and citizens, the so-called democratic deficit. in parliamentary terms, the committee on petitions is a fruitful way of intensifying contact with the population, and its involvement should be enhanced and popular participation in european affairs encouraged. i think that this will have the solidarity merit of, on the one hand, giving an account of the real concerns and aspirations of the people, and, on the other, allowing parliamentarians to present what their work has been to those who seek them and to demonstrate their willingness to work for the real needs of their fellow citizens. in this connection, i regret that the petition calling for the inclusion of the reference to the legacy of christianity in the preamble to the constitutional treaty, in clear contradiction to the expressed wish of more than one million people who had mobilized to sign it throughout europe, was not given due consideration. finally, i believe that the committee on petitions would benefit from increased resources and effective and balanced support not only from the european commission but also from the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, as did the pse group and the large majority of the ep, because it sets out guidelines and measures which will make it possible to revitalize the lisbon strategy, improve its implementation and achieve the objectives set in 2000. as i have always advocated, it provides for greater involvement in the decision-making and implementation process not only of the european parliament (a genuine culture of dialogue with parliament should be established), alongside the commission (with which a 'strong partnership' would be established) and the council (tripartite meetings between the three institutions are proposed), but also of the national parliaments (a 'strong partnership' would also be established between them and the ep), as well as the enhanced involvement of regional and local authorities. e- calls for budgetary resources at national and community level to be adequate to the objectives to be achieved under the lisbon agenda, and this should be reflected in the financial perspectives for 2007-13 and the structural funds as they have been reformed in the context of the reform of cohesion policy. in addition, the revised lisbon strategy will be an instrument for bringing about the desirable change in the economic and social development model hitherto followed in the madeira region.
in writing. between the illusion that it is enough to declare a goal to achieve it, and the reality that shows that the european economy has not been able to cope with the current moment of world crisis, we find a european union with different economic and social realities that brings together a set of good declarative intentions, but which has been little effective in solving its problems. that said, it is important to recognise that europe is the best continent in the world to live on. so if europe is to become the most competitive economy in the world, we must make adjustments to the path we have been following, without losing what is best and most essential, and respecting the historical, cultural and developmental diversity of the different european countries. i therefore believe that the general meaning of the resolution in question is correct: sustainable growth and employment must be the eu's most urgent objectives and they will be the ones that will promote environmental and social progress. there is no european social model without a european economy, but there is no point in a competitive economy that does not serve the interests of the citizens.
in writing. the mid-term review presented here is marked by the conclusions of the last european council in brussels in the spring, which concluded that the results achieved were modest in relation to the objectives set. the stagnation of the european economy since 2000 has not helped. the proposed text, moreover, - apart from calling for greater determination on the part of the commission's leadership - merely reiterates principles embodied in the original strategy. sustainable development, social cohesion, improvement of working conditions and increased employment, continuing or dynamic training and the competitiveness of the economy are as relevant today as they were then. as, unfortunately, the alienation of many states and citizens continues to weigh on the other side. in this connection, i regret that the last ecofin meeting was another opportunity to combine financial discipline and budgetary rigor with the necessary consideration of the nature and quality of public expenditure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. finally, i think that a much more realistic approach is needed, one that does not simply deplore failures and justify everything repeatedly by the absence of motivation and implementation by the states. it calls for creativity, leadership and determination, which is the most salient aspect of this resolution and which leads me to vote in favour.
in writing. based on the realistic scenario outlined in the wim kok interim report, the european commission has decided to revise its copy and present a reform of the lisbon strategy objectives. the priorities set in 2000 have been redefined on the basis of the current concerns of european citizens: growth and jobs. on the basis of this new reality, the people responsible for each measure are identified, concrete deadlines are set and progress is assessed. implementation now involves a single national programme and the appointment of a 'lord of lisbon' in each member state, responsible for monitoring the actions of the lisbon strategy and for simplifying the evaluation methods. as an intergovernmental area, the lisbon strategy depends almost exclusively on the capacity and commitment of member states to carry out deep structural reforms. with the revision of the strategy, the setting of clearer priorities and the urgency of the timetable, the necessary preconditions are created for member states to make the lisbon strategy a success story. today, for most european citizens, the lisbon strategy may seem a bit utopian. the history of the eu is rich in examples of this. in the 1980s, no one believed in the success of the single market and the single currency. i wish the lisbon strategy the same success.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr frattini, for his reply to the commission's initiative on data protection. i hope, like you, that the four member states will withdraw their initiatives. the european parliament has been very concerned about the pnr issue for two years. as the vice-president knows, there is no question of the need to promote cooperation at community and transatlantic level in order to combat terrorism effectively. we reiterate the need to maintain a balance between security, freedom and the rights of citizens. we insist that the transfer of data can only take place if the third country in question can guarantee an adequate level of protection, while it is imperative that a legal and secure framework for the transfer of pnr data is established. we advocate a push system with the appropriate filters and we want the necessary guarantees to be provided with regard to accuracy, security and data monitoring. furthermore, any exchange of information with the authorities of the united states or any other third country should always be based on the principle of reciprocity. we appreciate the views of the vice-president on the involvement of article 29 and his willingness to continue to provide this parliament with all the information relating to this dossier, and we want to believe that the negotiations under way with canada and australia can set a standard which can be followed by other countries and in particular by the united states of america. but in the information, in the answers that the vice-president gave, he did not refer to the question of the chip in the passports. we are hearing that the united states is planning to insert an unencrypted remote reading chip, and this is another concern to enter into in this global negotiation on data transfer between the union and the united states of america.
i am sorry, mr president, that the position of the present commission is the same as that of the previous commission last year. we would have to relocate beet production from current production areas to more competitive areas, with a drastic reduction in prices, seriously affecting the development of many of the less developed regions of the european union, as would happen in portugal, putting beet cultivation, the sugar industry, the only factory we have on the continent, whose small quota has been allocated to it, at risk of making its operation unviable, into question. but the impact of this reform on the production of the autonomous region of the azores is also a cause for concern, given the need to maintain this activity in that outermost region. the stability, the supply of refineries and the balance between the refining and processing margins of beet must also be safeguarded to avoid the disaster that this reform would be, taking into account the proposal presented.
i support the motion for a resolution, but i reject in writing the amendments which distort its spirit, in particular those tabled by max van den berg, glenys kinnock, inger segelström, jan andersson, åsa westlund, anna hedh, ewa hedkvist petersen, because, under the pretext of favouring european consumers on the one hand and supporting the acp and the least developed countries on the other, it threatens community sugar beet and cane producers and in particular the producers of the outermost regions of the european union, as it does not take due account of the specific constraints of these regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs anne elisabet jensen on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for an amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2005 (salary adjustments) because i think it is important to take account of the reduction in staff expenditure in the 2005 budget. in the 2005 budget of parliament, appropriations were set aside for the continuation of the policy of purchasing facilities. i believe that these appropriations should thus enable the financing of priorities which currently lack budgetary appropriations, such as preparations for the accession of bulgaria and romania. finally, i would like to stress that the community institutions, given the financial resources they need to carry out their activities, must be scrupulous in the careful and judicious management of public money, which is taxpayers' money.
in writing. this proposal is the result of the fact that the 2005 budget is in surplus, since the 2004 adjustment of remuneration approved by the council at the end of 2004 was only 0.7%, instead of the 2.6% envisaged when the budgets of the institutions were being drawn up. such surpluses will allow, on the one hand, the release of some appropriations entered in the 2005 budget for housing policy and the possible acquisition by parliament of buildings currently leased and, on the other hand, as the rapporteur very well points out, they should also allow the financing of priorities which currently lack budget appropriations, such as the preparations for the accession of bulgaria and romania. i voted in favour of course.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr salvador garriga polledo (a6-0047/2005) - draft amending budget no 1/2005 on the draft amending budget no 1/2005 of the european union for the financial year 2005 because i considered that the changes made by the revision of the establishment plans of the european commission services were necessary given the appointment of the new commission and the distribution of the portfolios among the new commissioners who came to demand changes. these should therefore be incorporated in the amending budget in the most transparent and effective way possible. i welcome your neutral incidence on the budget itself.
in writing. this first draft amending budget is intended to make the necessary budget-neutral technical amendments to the 2005 budget in the light of the changes made by the revision of the establishment plans of the departments following the appointment of the new commission and the allocation of portfolios among the commissioners. it should be recalled that, without prejudice to the fact that it is an administrative apparatus, the new european commission has undertaken to make it the budget of 'competitiveness and cohesion'. the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, which was voted on yesterday, calls for greater determination and creativity in pursuing its objectives. the commission has had the appropriate cooperation from the european parliament. i voted in favour of this proposal in the belief that the european commission will make the best use of this instrument and will mobilise around these objectives, justifying the very significant support it has received within the specialised committee.
in writing. at a time when the damage caused by conventional food production methods to both the environment and public health shows that it is imperative to look for alternatives, that it is necessary to guarantee access to safe food produced in a sustainable way, it is important that the european parliament takes a stand. organic production methods, with the respect and environmental balance they advocate, should be supported either by incentives for producers or by measures to protect these crops from inherent risks such as gmos, whose risks to the environment are not yet known and which, since there is no way of ensuring their production in a controlled way, threaten to contaminate the specimens with which they coexist.
in writing. i voted in favour of the marie-hélène aubert report on the european action plan for organic food and farming because i believe that it raises fundamental questions for the very future of organic farming. we must be aware that this agriculture now represents an important part of the food and agricultural production market in the european union. the action plan proposes to act on three main priorities - developing the organic food market based on information and raising consumer awareness, making public aid to organic farming more effective and improving and strengthening community standards for organic farming and import and inspection requirements. these priorities should therefore above all seek to address effectively the difficulties inherent in the specific features of organic farming, which run from production to distribution. a european action plan for organic farming should be ambitious, since organic farming is not limited to the production of food, but plays a wider role in environmental and social matters.
in writing. biological issues are of great importance today. since 1985 we have seen a significant increase in the number of farms and hectares of land used for organic farming. however, this growth has slowed down considerably in recent years due to difficulties in the production, processing and distribution of these products. this report advocates more and better measures to remove these obstacles. the main objective is to make everyone, in general, and not just some urban minorities, aware of the environmental benefits of organic products. improving community standards, including the cap, and increasing public aid are key to making organic farming a more dynamic aspect of sustainable agriculture. at a time when the environment must be a priority, this issue must be at the forefront. while i am sure that the high price of 'organic' products is the major obstacle to consumption, i am convinced that the development of support for organic farming will result in lower prices and, consequently, in increased consumption by the general public. i voted yes.
in writing. the european parliament, taking advantage of the occasion of its plenary session on international women's day, decides, by means of this resolution, to recall certain aspects of the situation of women which are well known, deplorable and which we must combat. anyone who does not believe in a war of the sexes, or in a policy of quotas or confusion between what it is to be a minority and what it is to be a woman, has an added duty to fight so that, in full respect for their unique role in society, in the family and as individuals, women see the legal provisions applied that allow for a true and equal equality in accordance with the natural differences between all and in the widest respect for that value that is maximum and independent of gender: individual freedom. and the personal and inalienable right to individual happiness.
in writing. this week marks international women's day, a good time to take stock of the progress made worldwide in the areas of women's equality, freedom, development, dignity and civic participation. i think it is important to raise awareness of the many things that need to be done and to make sure that the eu remains at the forefront of a just struggle which, in favour of women, is not exclusively a women's struggle but one for all of humanity. the numerous scourges and threats facing many millions of women throughout the world are very serious and deserve a prompt, generous and unreserved response. however, i cannot but regret that, under the cover of these principles and vague and appealing concepts, attempts are being made to establish as rights the use of certain practices which are a direct attack on them, as in the case of abortion. conveniently disguised and diluted in the 'sexual and reproductive health' buzzword, used improperly.
in writing. the european parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). given the worrying scale of this scourge, i support designating 2006 as the european year against violence against women. but beyond the symbolic gestures, i believe that the eu should play a leading role in establishing gender equality in concrete terms. it is urgent to move from mere political recognition to practical application in our daily lives. in the area i follow closely, social policy, all measures that contribute to combating inequalities between men and women in employment, in all aspects, from wage conditions to career development and access to the labour market, must be strengthened. the nordic countries have very low unemployment rates, partly because they have encouraged greater female employability. similarly, in an increasingly demanding labour market, it is important that job flexibility takes into account essential values such as work-life balance... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the reports which have emerged concerning the trade in women's eggs deserve our firm condemnation, our sincere concern and an effective reaction from the international bodies, in addition to the romanian and british authorities. the mere possibility that women are being forced to provide their bodies as part of an obscene new business is enough for all of us to take action with commitment to combat this practice immediately. these are not just commemorative dates, but moments in which we can and must show our willingness to live up to the values we stand for.
in writing. the news that has come to light about the united kingdom importing human somatic cells from romania, if true, reveals contemptible behaviour and disregard for the most basic human rights. the british clinics, while offering romanian women large sums of money for their eggs, not only encourage the transformation of the human body into a source of profit, which is prohibited and condemned by article 3 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, but also exploit the fragility or the misery of the donors. the european parliament, in the light of the reports drawn up, must make a strong effort to adopt measures to protect human dignity, including strict restrictions on the donation of eggs, or of tissues and organs as a whole, in order to ensure protection against this barbaric form of exploitation of man by man. finally, i believe that the practices reported must be the object of our vehement protest and deserve the utmost disgust. i also welcome the adoption in this resolution of very important principles against cloning and in defence of the protection of the human embryo. europe must stand together in defence of the dignity of every human being, from conception to death. i voted yes.
in writing. the fact is that, alongside a permanent and wider objective of ensuring full compliance with the non-proliferation treaty, there are realistically more urgent and more serious concerns than others, and it is not reasonable to treat as if the danger posed by the possession of nuclear weapons by rogue states, states not committed to international law and terrorist groups and those states which are the architects of modern international relations are equal. in this context, the situation in both north korea and iran is worrying. in the case of iran, the hope we should have in the work of the negotiations conducted by the eu must not make us forget that the indications of the real will of that country to do what it proposes are very tenuous. in the case of north korea, there are clear statements and behaviour by the country's leaders that should worry us and that should make the international community think, in due course, about the actions it may have to take. the security of the world requires balance, respect for the law and strength in decision-making.
in writing. in developing their nuclear programmes, north korea and iran have adopted a logic of clear disregard for international law and the agreements they have signed, with obvious damage to world peace and political stability. such behaviour, which in some cases borders on war, requires a firm and concerted position from the european union. the european union is also calling on the united states to take all necessary steps to ensure that the nuclear weapons are not used in a way that would cause serious damage to the civilian population. the eu should also carry out a preliminary analysis of the consequences for europe of the possibility of iran and north korea acquiring nuclear weapons, in particular those of a political and economic nature. finally, i believe that the eu and its member states should establish a common front at the 2005 review conference of the non-proliferation treaty, calling on the international community to strengthen programmes to prevent the spread of nuclear materials, technology and knowledge and to take additional measures to prevent terrorists or those who protect them from having access to weapons of mass destruction and their components. i voted yes.
in writing. the recent developments in lebanon cannot be seen outside the context of the worsening situation in the middle east, where the united states and its allies are stepping up their interference, military intervention and occupation, seeking to secure their domination of the region and its vital resources, and to realize their project known as the 'greater middle east'. it is in the context of increasing pressure and threats from the united states to countries in the region - such as syria and iran - for which it sought to secure the support of france and germany at the recent summits with the european union and nato, that it is seeking to develop cover lines for dangerous adventures and escalations of destabilisation in the region, particularly in lebanon - seeking to undermine its national unity and compliance with the taef agreements - which could have serious consequences. the resolution ignores the fundamental problem and issue - 'the cause of causes' - namely the role of the united states and israel - which militarily occupies territories in palestine, syria and even lebanon - in the worsening of the situation in the middle east. that is why we disagree with your general line.
in writing. the latest developments in the middle east and the way in which the political situation in that part of the world has developed - partly also because of the military intervention in iraq - are now giving rise to some moderate hope. in addition to tragic events such as the assassination attempt on the life of the former lebanese prime minister or the repeated attacks in iraq, there are indeed signs that solutions to the problems are beginning to be new and indicative of a possible future stability, pacification and democratization of the region. in this context, and in the light of the deep protest against the attack, this is a moment when we must demand that syria comply with what the international community has been demanding of it, withdraw fully from lebanon and allow elections in that country to proceed normally. on the other hand, it is time for the european union to recognize what has been evident for a long time and to include the hezbollah group in the list of terrorist groups.
in writing. lebanon has long been the scene of clashes between the major powers in the middle east, and its entire social fabric suffers from this geographical coincidence. the latest episode in a long-standing series of violence has been the deplorable assassination of former prime minister hariri, demonstrating the way forward towards stabilization and the uncertainties surrounding the ongoing electoral process. i believe that if this situation is to be brought to an end, it is essential that the international community should not hesitate to deal with those who subsidize, promote and incite the practice of terrorism. merely tolerating terrorism is not good policy. i therefore welcome the withdrawal of syrian troops, but i cannot help but repudiate the relationship that this country has maintained with hezbollah and the way in which it has interfered, directly or covertly, in the internal affairs of lebanon, a sovereign state. without irrefutable proof of the abandonment of this relationship, of the end of interference and of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, i believe that the european union will have little to gain from closer relations with syria. i also believe that hezbollah should be included in the european list of terrorist organisations, with all the consequences that this entails.
in writing. this report addresses a very important issue for the future of research, knowledge and innovation in the various member states of the european union, which should be summarised in three aspects: - to achieve more research, increased funding is needed and the budget of the sixth framework programme represents only 5.4% of total public expenditure on research in europe, making the creation of any european research area impossible. the financing of the future programme is essential, but the final amount of the financial perspective is not known. the rapporteur is asking for at least a doubling, which seems logical. - i know . the future programme will, however, undergo a number of changes compared with the present one. but not exactly the ones proposed in the report. research must support innovation, but it must not be all about increasing competitiveness, as is the case with the commission's guidance following the wim kok report. - greater attention must be paid to the working conditions of all those engaged in research. the rapporteur states that in order to achieve the objective of investing 3% of gdp in r & d, the european union needs 700 000 new researchers by 2010. now, this means that we need to invest in human resources to get more researchers.
in writing. research is a crucial area for the success of innovation and the long-term competitiveness of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the guidelines for the future policy of the european union in support of research. the creation of the european research area will only be possible with increased eu research funding, with a view to better coordination between european, national and regional research policies. i therefore give my full support to the proposal to double the budget for the 7th framework programme. the eu needs 700,000 new, appropriately qualified researchers by 2010 if it is to meet the target of investing 3% of gdp in research and technological development. to achieve this, it is essential to make europe more attractive to researchers and scientists, to generate a new enthusiasm for science among young people, to encourage the participation of women, and to promote scientific careers and the mobility of researchers. finally, i would like to stress that member states eligible for the structural funds should use a significant part of these resources to eliminate their disadvantaged situations in the field of research.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pia elda locatelli report (a6-0046/2005) - guidelines for the union's research policy on 'science and technology' because i am an advocate of strong and effective research policies for and in europe. fully aware of the difficulty of achieving the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy, i remain a supporter of a union research and development (r & d) policy as one of the main instruments for promoting europe's growth and competitiveness. the completion of the european research area (era) and the continuity of the planning of research programmes are essential. the objective of making europe more competitive requires financial resources for research. new strategies for the creation of enterprises cooperating with regional institutions as well as universities are therefore aspects to be developed for the future. it seems to me important that universities should take on an entrepreneurial side, capable of interacting between research and industry. finally, i support the proposals that the structural funds should support regional r & d actions and a 'european label of excellence'.
in writing. i welcome the courage of the rapporteur who has given the following title to her explanatory statement: 'europe deserves better: no more 'lisbon lament'. as i said yesterday, the 'objectives of lisbon' are as consensual as the recognition that a new, strong and courageous attitude is urgently needed. i'll add that to your list: creative. the kok report on the lisbon strategy stated that europe needed to be made more attractive to researchers and scientists. indeed, numerous sources and statistics indicate that europe has been suffering a veritable bloodletting of its best scientists and researchers. we need to stop it. the objective of the 'european research area' should be pursued through concrete actions, including: increased technology transfer, especially for smes; full and efficient use of the structural funds to support r & d at regional level; special emphasis on interdisciplinarity in training; strengthening the role of universities in the europe of knowledge by empowering them; encouraging the mobility of researchers by promoting and facilitating family reunification; achieving the 3% target for r & d; establishing and disseminating innovation hubs, such as the proposed european institute of technology; equipping primary and secondary schools with technological tools to encourage research; promoting 'success stories' campaigns. in a word, leave the regrets. i voted yes.
in writing. the preservation of biodiversity and the reversal of desertification are key to ensuring sustainable development. healthy ecosystems provide important social and economic resources. the natura 2000 network, based on sites protected under the birds and habitats directives, contributes to this objective. in its proposal for the financial framework for 2007-13, the european commission intends to finance the costs of running this network - €6.1 billion per year - from existing funds. although the aim is to reverse biodiversity loss: - the causes are not addressed: the change in the production model based on profit maximisation, as exemplified by the release of gmos into the environment. - i know . and the necessary funding is not secured, putting this objective in 'competition' with other economic and social objectives. we therefore believe that the appropriations for rural development (to compensate for the additional costs for farmers) and the structural funds should be increased proportionately if the costs of natura 200 management are charged to these funds. it is also essential to increase the appropriations for the life programme and/or to create a dedicated programme for this network to ensure that the objectives are met.
in writing. in an increasingly urbanised society, where rural areas are becoming desertified and where industrialisation and construction take up the traditional 'natural' space, the european union's concern to ensure the maintenance of biodiversity is justified and useful. a society that abandons its fields, its forests, its rural space not only reduces biodiversity but also its capacity to exploit natural resources, encourages urban concentration, the macrocephaly of the major cities and reduces the quality of life in general. more than the defence of biodiversity as an end, our main objective must be to protect a model of development which ensures the possibility of full enjoyment of a quality life, only possible when the 'natural' space is preserved and maintained.
in writing. the environment deserves to be a priority worldwide. the growth of recent decades and the negative impacts on the world have made this a priority and a necessity for sustainable development. in this particular case, what is at stake is the world's biological diversity, which has been declining steadily over the last few decades. the natura 2000 network, which aims to protect nature, in particular by preserving animal life and its habitats, presents a unique opportunity to combat this depletion of biological diversity in our area. it's our share of direct responsibility. i think it is important that there are adequate levels of funding and that the support and benefits are increased if the main objective is to be achieved. it is worth recalling that the eu is committed to the principle of environmental integration in line with the cardiff process and the community's own sustainable development strategy. this report advocates joint responsibility for the member states and the community. the european union funds should therefore cover sites included in the network and their management activities. moreover, this strategy, because of the activities associated with it, could contribute to the improvement of the rural economy and the quality of life of citizens. i voted yes.
in writing. we know that the present sugar regime has been accused of causing market distortions, high consumer prices and having a negative effect on the world market, particularly in developing countries. it was on the basis of these arguments that the commission put forward in july 2004 a proposal for the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar, focusing on price reductions (guarantee price (37%), institutional price (33%) in two stages over three years; the abolition of the intervention price (currently three times the world market price) and the abolition of public intervention, which will be replaced by a private storage system and the substitution of the intervention price by the reference price, plus the reduction of sugar production quotas and the reduction of subsidised exports. the only support provided is the introduction of income aid in the form of a differentiated payment to sugar beet growers to compensate them partially (60%) for the loss of income resulting from the price reduction and the introduction of the possibility of transferring quotas between operators in different member states. these are positions which we cannot accept, and that is why we have tabled several amendments, but unfortunately not all of them have been adopted.
in writing. the resolution in question, concerning the common organization of the market in sugar, was ultimately the result of a compromise which ultimately guarantees the essential interests of the country, particularly in view of the reduced beet market which is beginning to develop in portugal, and which is all the more serious since, if this were not the case, the damage would be in an ultraperipheral region such as the azores, which is already exposed to various constraints on its economic development.
in writing. the main reservation i have about the sugar reform is that it is a major reduction in the beet production quotas announced in the commission proposal. i share the view of the producers' associations and some european governments that this measure is leading to the concentration of beet production in only a few member states. i believe that it must be maintained throughout the community, not only for environmental and economic reasons, but also because otherwise there is a risk of losing thousands of jobs, which are hardly replaceable, and inevitably social costs. i am sure that the reform of the common organization of the market in sugar must ensure a price level which ensures that both community producers and suppliers from developing countries are adequately remunerated, and that the temptation to upset the balance in the sugar sector is avoided. otherwise, i believe, it will cause serious damage not only to community producers, who will suffer a sharp fall in income, but also to community consumers, who, as in previous reforms, will not even benefit from a reduction in the price of sugar, and will lose everything in the market. i voted yes.
mr president, mr commissioner, we are facing in our world an era marked by the imposition of democratic values at all latitudes and longitudes. none of us can of course remain indifferent to what we are witnessing in the middle east and to the great transformation taking place in lebanon, where the right to freedom and democracy is also being demanded. we have had the opportunity very recently to see the new president of ukraine here in the european parliament also draw attention to the reality, to the great transformation that has taken place in that country. in this context, it is absolutely unacceptable that our continent should continue to have what has already been described here, and very well, as a stain that is not only black but is becoming increasingly deeply black in colour. the news coming from belarus is indeed very disturbing. there is no sign that the regime is opening up to civil society, but instead is increasingly tightening its repressive measures. i think that politically, on the european continent, belarus has therefore become the biggest problem we face and given the seriousness of this problem, i think we have to strengthen in every possible way the support for civil society in this country in the same way that we have to strengthen as much as possible the existing sanctions. in this particular case, the dialogue between the european union and russia is of great importance. as we know, this dialogue should in fact deal with the conditions in the neighbourhood between the european union and russia as one of the most important issues, and as our resolution very well points out, it is indeed regrettable that this point has not been addressed by the european commission. this is paragraph 21 of our resolution. i hope that the commissioner can provide the necessary clarifications on this point. let us therefore support this resolution and hope that we will hear good news from belarus later this year. it's my vows.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we who are members of parliament can easily understand the horror and violence described in the case we are dealing with in today's resolution. three of our colleagues, sam rainsy, cheam channy and chea poch, were subjected to a lifting of immunity, in a truly brutal way, by a vote by show of hands, in a session of a parliament, if you will, behind closed doors, hidden from the eyes of all and without available records, and one of our colleagues was arrested shortly afterwards. it is, in fact, an assault on the very heart of democracy itself, on the nature of a parliament. one of the targets of this measure, and the leader of the party, mr sam rainsy, wrote an article in the cambodia daily two days ago which describes well the seriousness of the situation in his country and to which i would draw the attention of our colleagues. we must indeed act firmly on this matter. it is not the first time that we have drawn attention to the seriousness of the situation in cambodia and we must ask the commission, the council and the member states to be particularly clear at the next meeting on 10 and 11 march. but this question will also be dealt with at the session of the commission on human rights at the united nations, which will take place in geneva, also beginning at the end of this month and continuing through april, and where a delegation from our parliament will be present. we will have to follow these debates very closely because the report by the united nations special envoy, mr peter leuprecht, is also very clear in its denunciation of the very serious situation in that country. to quote the english expression, he characterizes the situation in cambodia as "the chunky facade of democracy". such is the continuing degradation that we see. cambodia, instead of offering us signs of hope and confidence in the future, is on the contrary hardening the regime and increasing human rights violations. so my suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, is that we should return to this matter before the summer recess, after the conclusions of the geneva session, if there is no significant progress in that country.
i would like to express my concern about the guidelines for the application of the safeguard clause in the textiles and clothing sector, published on 6 april by the european commission. these guidelines, in addition to the considerable delay in their preparation, contain conditions and procedures which may make it difficult and delay the activation of this clause, and do not provide the necessary immediate response to the seriousness of the situation, since thousands of businesses and jobs are at risk. it seems to be confirmed, as commissioner benita ferrero waldner made clear in the debate in this parliament, that the commission does not want these guidelines to facilitate the application of safeguard measures, but on the contrary to prevent the use of such measures. with what consequences, we ask. in view of the information available on the rapid increase in export demands to the european union, measures should have been taken long ago to protect the present and future of this strategic sector, in particular the safeguard clauses in trade agreements.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the region. we cannot hold the new commission directly responsible for the progress or delays that have occurred. in fact, 2004 was the year in which the prodi commission ceased to function and the barroso commission took office, i.e. vitorino replaced fratini. but 2004 was a historic year, mainly for three reasons: first, because the european union has grown in size, now with a population of over 450 million, and has become more politically, geographically and economically powerful; second, because beyond the economic dimension and the internal market, we have become more shared in responsibility for threats to stability and security that are not confined to borders, as is the case with terrorism. we must remember the tragic events of 11 march in madrid. and thirdly, as mr cavada and mr ruhr have already mentioned, the major change in the area of justice and home affairs, with the introduction of a new institutional framework for visas, asylum and immigration, the introduction of codecision with the european parliament and qualified majority voting in the council. the questions we have put to the commission and the council here highlight the concerns to which we want answers. we want to know what initiatives are being taken and this parliament wants to follow up on these initiatives. we do not want to play a mere decorative role, we want our views to be taken into account in order to ensure that all citizens of the union can live freely in a world of security, combating all forms of calamity and guaranteeing our freedoms. in this respect, commissioner fratini, i congratulate you on your assurances that greater security must not compromise freedom, and on the initiative you have taken within the council of europe for a european day against the death penalty. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european citizenship system, which would allow citizens to have the right to vote in local elections. and thirdly and lastly, that judicial review be improved by extending the jurisdiction of the court of justice.
european public order is based on a system of universal values, which finds its ultimate expression in the charter of fundamental rights and the emerging constitution. the system of competences of the european union of the member states and of the european institutions is therefore not morally neutral. the area of freedom, security and justice is the place where the challenge to public policy posed by the question of basic human dignity is most clearly seen. asylum, immigration, the penal system, the balance between freedom and security require consensus for justice and often harmonization of legislation. on this basis, there are dramatic areas to which i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission. how can we tackle, for example, the issue of illegal immigration? is there any recognition here of the urgency of a common policy or is each state left to its own policy, including the policy of criminalisation? how do the council and the commission intend to tackle the question of prison reform? do you accept that this too is a matter for individual states alone or do you see the need for a common, urgent policy that is transversal to the whole criminal justice system, that is to say, covering the period of serving sentences and the modulation of sentences themselves? europe is not really fulfilled only if it is an obsessive security space. europe is only a reality if, along with the concern for a security area, it is also a real area of justice.
mr president, i too would like to join in the congratulations that have been extended to all the rapporteurs here, but let me highlight in particular the role of the rapporteurs from the socialist group, in particular our colleague mr terence wynn, who has done a fantastic job which will undoubtedly mark all the work of discharge from now until the end of this term. our colleague ayala sender and our colleague xenogiannakopoulou, who together with our president szabolcs fazakas have in fact formed a team where socialists look at each other and take great pride in the work done. i would also like to congratulate you, commissioner, on your brilliant speech and on the clarity with which you have dealt with the discharge issues. however, i cannot help telling you that, on the basis of a note submitted by our colleague mr stubb, i am not very interested in knowing what wine the commissioner drank on 12 december, but i am certainly very interested in knowing which companies were financed by the community budget to dispose of thirty thousand tonnes of adulterated butter, with export subsidies and pastry subsidies. the problem is that the commission, after six years, is still telling me that it cannot provide this data because it is confidential and that members and the european public cannot have access to this information. and that seems to me to be the big problem that we face.
mr president, three very quick remarks. the first concerns the annual declaration of reliability to be submitted by the member states, with which i fully agree, since this declaration gives full substance to the principle of shared management already defined in due course. the second point concerns own resources, where i also think the point made in the terrence wynn report on this subject is correct, namely the concern that the commission should have with the criteria for the assessment and calculation of the national accounts of each member state. finally, i turn to the third point, which concerns the way in which any technical irregularities are passed on to public opinion, making it susceptible to the idea that there are irregularities and fraud in the use of community funds. finally, i would like to make one final reference to the implementation of the agencies' budgets, which i think is correct, although i regret that no reference has been made to the maritime safety agency and, in particular, to the process in which the agency is engaged in terms of its implementation and implementation.
i welcome the statement by commissioner michel that he will increase funds to fight malaria, a disease necessarily linked to poverty and which we have seen increase in infant mortality. but we want more! we want the european union to launch and lead a global programme to combat malaria, as professor jeffrey sachs has suggested, because we know that the lack of political will and adequate public funding is the reason why there is still no vaccine today and why there are not even impregnated mosquito nets spread everywhere. the european union can make a difference in the fight against poverty if it knows how to mobilise funds and lead projects with strategic objectives and impact. this is the case with the project under consideration for the pre-eradication of malaria. in this way, the european union will make a decisive contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals, which are more than just goals: the european union and its member states must honour these commitments.
in writing. as a result of enlargement, and with the time that is needed, the european union is adapting its structures to this new reality. however insignificant it may seem, since many of these amendments are only formal or merely administrative adjustments, they are all the real expression of a profound change that has taken place and that has redefined the very concept of the union. that is why i am pleased to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the aim, in view of the latest enlargement of the european union, is to amend regulation no 1059/2003 of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of nuts, i.e. the nomenclature of territorial units for statistics, which aims to provide for a uniform system of allocation of territorial units for the compilation of regional statistics in the european union. the opportunity created by the enlargement of the european union has facilitated the introduction of changes necessary for the greater effectiveness of the system, among which i would highlight the redefinition of the framework of the existing administrative units and the provision of a category of smaller administrative units. this last amendment eliminates the lack of homogeneity which has hitherto characterized the nuts classification and which led to the whole of sweden and the brussels region being listed at the same level. i support the rapporteur when he considers it appropriate to reflect certain elements better, in particular when he considers that it is not appropriate at this stage to amend the legal basis of the proposal for a regulation under consideration and in the request to the commission to draw up a communication on the subject.
in writing. the counterfeiting of the euro has been increasing alarmingly, and it is one of the main targets of criminal organisations, which, with a high degree of sophistication, end up benefiting from the absence of internal borders in the eu and the lack of technical and operational resources in some member states. joint, homogeneous and effective responses are needed, which should involve close cooperation with europol. the proposal put forward by six member states to designate europol as the eu's central counterfeiting unit is not realistic, however, given the limitations it has to be able to fulfil these functions. despite the good intentions, the proposal does not solve the fundamental problems raised by the structure of europol. europol should be community-oriented, have community funding, a legal basis that can be changed more easily, use the rule of qualified majority and codecision, and be subject to the democratic control of the ep and the court of justice. i support this report, because in the present situation there can be adequate protection of the euro only if the powers of the current national central services for the protection of the euro are maintained and a mechanism for close cooperation and exchange of information between them and europol is established.
in writing. given its value, the borderless territory it covers and the importance it is acquiring as a reference currency in non-eu economies, the euro is today one of the most coveted currencies by counterfeiters. these use increasingly sophisticated techniques and methods which are often beyond the detection capability of the authorities in each member state. it is therefore clear that there is a need to continuously study the best ways of protecting the euro and of establishing an effective fight against counterfeiting at european level. in this respect, i believe that europol can play an important role in the centralisation and dissemination of information, contributing to the effectiveness of national services dedicated to the fight against this type of crime. however, to be able to take on this role, its interaction capacity will have to be streamlined and made more operational. without these amendments, and in view of the limitations which the rapporteur has also noted in budgetary and legal terms, there is legitimate doubt as to its ability to fulfil such a task. i voted yes.
in writing. police cooperation is essential if a high level of security is to be provided for european citizens within the area of freedom, security and justice. it is important that there is continuous development of police services and that a whole range of common quality standards and methodologies are adopted at european level. the balance sheet for the first three years of cepol's operation was frankly positive, with considerable progress despite the difficulties caused by the absence of a legal personality, a seat and a budget financed by member states' contributions. decisions on the seat and legal personality were adopted in 2004. the proposal aims to convert cepol into a union body with its own legal personality and statute; to give it increased powers; to provide it with community funding; to provide it with its own seat, bodies and staff (subject to the eu statute); to replace unanimity voting with simple majority voting; and to introduce provisions on the use of all official languages and access to documents. i support the demetriou report and the amendments introduced by the rapporteur, which seek to minimise the risk of centralisation of the system, and i cannot but stress that the training provided by cepol will be complementary to the national training and that it is important to maintain a networking of national institutes.
in writing. the commission proposal is proving to be of great importance these days. crime has been increasing in general throughout europe, and a more effective cepol will make citizens feel safer. the amendments tabled by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on budgets, which were unanimously adopted in each of their respective committees, have significantly improved the original proposal. the european police college, after being granted legal personality in 2004, lacks new developments. these measures, which aim at a secretariat with sufficient staff, financing entirely from the community budget and the appointment of police officers at national level, are in line with this. the report by mr demetriou proposes good answers to the problems which i consider to be the most relevant. i voted yes.
in writing. as a portuguese and also as vice-president of the transport committee, my concerns about the future of maritime transport are understandably significant. i believe, as i have had occasion to say, in the virtues of the growth in the use of sea and inland waterways for both passenger and freight transport. i believe, as does the commission's communication and the report in question, that this requires action at various levels, particularly in terms of bureaucratization and administrative simplification, along with measures of an infrastructural nature. so my vote was in favour.
in writing. like inland waterway transport, which is a safe and environmentally friendly means of transport, accounting for about 7% of freight traffic in the former 15 member states, cabotage should also be given greater attention and promoted. i welcome this proposal which marks an important step towards the long-awaited 'sea motorways'. the creation of concerted measures in the fields of maritime transport, port policy and intermodality, with the aim of strengthening the role of ports as pivotal hubs of the transport network, are aspects which i would stress, along with the simplification of administrative and customs formalities. i believe that investment is still in its infancy in this area, as it is a valuable medium- and long-term sustainability instrument. as the report points out, only a massive increase in the tonnage transported can make the considerable investments required to ensure regular, frequent and punctual services profitable. to this end, port conditions must be improved and the opportunities offered by the application of new technologies exploited. in line with the project announced in the 2001 white paper, it is indeed important to contribute to the integration of 'sea motorways' into the trans-european network on the same footing as motorways and railways.
in writing. this proposal seeks to introduce new measures to contribute to the achievement, within the framework of the european research area, of the lisbon objective of the european union becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. the adoption of this legal instrument is of particular importance, as europe will need some 700 000 additional researchers by 2010 to achieve this objective. it is therefore essential to facilitate, by means of a specific simplified procedure, the admission and mobility of third-country nationals for the purpose of scientific research, so as to make the union labour market attractive to researchers from all over the world. however, if we are to encourage the admission and mobility of researchers, it is essential to provide for accompanying measures to prevent the development of new forms of brain drain to the detriment of the least developed countries. it is also essential that we take the necessary precautions in the field of immigration, with a controlled reopening of legal immigration channels according to various parameters, depending on the categories of migrants concerned and according to the needs of each member state.
in writing. if europe is to be the most competitive economy, its investment in research must be unequivocal. and that investment has to be both material and human. for this reason, facilitating, de-bureaucratising, simplifying and even encouraging the coming of researchers from third countries to the member states should be supported and applauded by us. although the need to bear in mind that humanly decapitalizing developing countries can hardly be understood as a form of aid or cooperation, that is why policies of this kind must always be considered and balanced. that said, and bearing in mind the portuguese legal framework which, by preventing the issuing of a residence permit under the conditions laid down in the directive, led to the provision of a two-year derogation, i call on the government of my country to make the necessary changes, otherwise portugal will not only not fully benefit from this policy of attracting researchers, but may actually end up being harmed.
in writing. the european research area has become a key factor in the european union's new strategic objective for the next decade, to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. to achieve this, europe will need 700 000 additional researchers by 2010 to meet the target of devoting 3% of member states' gdp to research and technological development. the need for more researchers must first be met by adopting a series of convergent measures, such as increasing the attraction of young people to scientific fields, improving career prospects for researchers in the european union and increasing opportunities for training and mobility. however, since the european union is unlikely to find this considerable number of researchers on its territory, measures should be taken in parallel to attract more researchers from third countries. finally, i think it is to be welcomed that the parliament's proposal attaches importance to family reunification. the difficulty of considering the family of researchers in the european area constitutes a strong barrier to their mobility and may lead them to choose another career. i voted yes.
in writing. i support this motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on draft implementing measures which 'go beyond the implementing powers provided for in the basic act', more specifically in the field of restricting the use of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. in fact, all the evidence indicates that the commission has not acted in compliance with the provisions of directive 2002/95/ec in this area, and it is therefore entirely appropriate to call on the commission to review its draft decision with a view to restoring community legality. i voted yes.
in writing. the awareness of the need for effective crime prevention, which arose from the specific fight against terrorism, has led to the constant search, at all times and by a reasonable majority, for solutions that strike a balance between the objective of effective crime prevention and the duty to respect the rights, freedoms and guarantees of persons subject to criminal proceedings, in particular those suspected of committing criminal offences. the need for confidence, mutual recognition and, essentially, cooperation between the member states cannot jeopardize the scope for exercising the sovereignty of the member states, especially in a specific area such as criminal law. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 51 because the solutions to these concerns have been found, in particular by introducing the oral amendment proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. the european parliament had already adopted a recommendation to the green paper on the procedural guarantees for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings in the european union, which set out the main elements of the matter. in her suggestions, mrs buitenweg invites the commission to include the other measures in the green paper. in my view, the report presented is remarkable for two reasons: the first concerns convergence with the spirit of the charter of fundamental rights, in particular articles 47 and 48 thereof; the second concerns the objective of increasing the harmonisation of rules in criminal procedural matters. the proposal to create a section containing the definitions of the most commonly used concepts and a section aiming at a written 'statement of rights' of the defendant is also of interest. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestions and consider that the commission has presented a very small set of minimum guarantees which must be observed, so i voted in favour.
in writing. i welcome the support that the proposal for discharge has received in the specialised committees. the european commission is responsible in the first instance for the implementation of the general budget. the excellent report by mr wynn shows that the implementation levels in 2003 were generally good. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i believe that the warning is especially justified in order to achieve a better balance between policy formulation and accountability for its proper implementation in the framework of the new financial perspectives 2007-2013. a review of the distribution of powers within the commission ('governance set-up') and of administrative procedures is also becoming more relevant. without prejudice to the responsibility of the member states for the implementation of each budget, which i emphasize (and endorse), it is necessary to correct the organisational and bureaucratic aspects which hinder it (blatant cases of investigation or consumer protection) and which have also led to the lowest levels of implementation (68%) in such a decisive area as the area of freedom, security and justice. i particularly support the court of auditors' proposal for a community internal control framework and a 'single audit' model and welcome the highlight given to the development sector in this report.
in writing. among the many aspects covered in the resolution, as regards members' allowances, the majority of the european parliament once again insists on the creation of a single salary for meps, arguing that there should be no difference in the remuneration paid to them. what is not mentioned is that the creation of an equal salary - in the order of 8,500 euros (about 1,700 accounts) per month - for all members, regardless of the countries they represent, would create situations of immorality when compared with the wage reality of workers (and other elected officials and holders of public institutions) in most countries - this is the correct and fair reference - particularly in portugal. the salary of a member of the european parliament should be based on the salary of the members of the national parliaments of the country where he or she is elected. meps are elected in national circles and are, and should remain, bound by them. the measures of transparency and rigour in the use of the financial resources made available to members for the development of their activities should continue to be applied. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. when the clearance of accounts is voted on, it is clear that the distinction between what is agreement with the political decisions which affect financial management and the recognition of the validity of the accounts presented is complex because if i may have objections to raise in respect of the first, the same will not necessarily be true in respect of the second. the report itself leaves a number of notes and recommendations which fully justify my vote in favour. i therefore express my support for the need for a single statute for members of the european parliament, which would put an end to the unjustified inequality of those elected by equal citizens. i also agree with the aim of making brussels the single and permanent seat of the european parliament for reasons of efficiency in the management of human and financial resources, since this duplication of costs with the two european parliament premises is pointless, useless or unreasonable, and is costly. finally, i agree with the need to increase the funds available to guarantee interpretation. knowledge of foreign languages may not be a condition for the exercise of the office of member.
in writing. i welcome the good results in the implementation of the 2003 financial year, the first in which the directors-general drew up annual activity reports, which were subsequently transmitted by the secretary-general to the president and the committee on budgetary control with a declaration giving reasonable assurance that the parliamentary budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions had been ensured. a very high level of budget implementation was also achieved. i regret that this report has been an opportunity for another closed-door attack on strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. it is true that duplicating the locations of operations generates high and unnecessary costs and great inconvenience. but opting for brussels is not the only answer, which could only be defended by sectarianism and myopia. the answer to the problem is to concentrate on strasbourg, which would also strengthen the day-to-day practical and functional independence of parliament vis-à-vis the council, the commission and their bureaucracies. that's the way i see it going. only a decision by the latter to establish a permanent seat in strasbourg and to end the itinerant system would also require the french and strasbourg authorities to make the necessary investments and justify the long-term adaptation of the transport system.
in writing. the broad support for each of the 14 discharge procedures for the decentralised agencies leads to the conclusion that there is a peaceful and useful effect of their action, which is projected to improve the overall effectiveness of the european union's action. from the time the first agencies were set up in the 1970s until the most recent (the european network and information security agency, set up in march 2004), it became apparent that specific tasks of a technical, scientific or management nature were being carried out, which was the objective behind their creation. the accumulation of experience makes it possible to identify new ways and improvements both in terms of the coordination and transparency of the action and in strengthening the complementarity of the action, better organising the necessary resources and their efficient allocation for the production of results and designing a communication strategy for the dissemination of these results. these are some of the suggestions made in the report, together with regular scrutiny of the actual conduct of their projects and the real relevance, effectiveness and efficiency of each agency's model in implementing or contributing to community policies.
in writing. as i have said and written on numerous occasions, i consider the external dimension of the union, and in particular development aid, to be one of the most important aspects of the european project. i therefore support in particular the opinion of the committee on development: the main objective should be to eradicate poverty by strengthening social, educational and health infrastructure, increasing the productive capacity of the most deprived populations and providing support to countries in need so that they can develop local growth and potential. in this connection, as i have said elsewhere, i consider it a priority that 20% of the european union's development cooperation expenditure should be allocated to basic education and health in developing countries. the edf is a key instrument for the implementation of this policy in the acp countries and the commission should, as proposed in this report, promote a policy of speeding up the disbursement of edf resources in order to avoid the (worrying) level of unused resources that has been observed. the desired faster implementation will necessarily have to be accompanied by improved transparency, as well as accountability and respect for the principles of sound financial management. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. although the report makes an assessment of the situation, pointing out, for example, that the number of people living in extreme poverty is constantly increasing or that the fight against poverty requires above all a radical change in policies to combat its structural causes, such as the unsustainable payment of the external debt by the developing countries or inequality in the distribution of wealth, it does highlight its 'limits' by not proposing measures to combat the causes it points to effectively, by accepting the liberalization of world trade or by not calling for the unconditional debt cancellation of all developing countries, as proposed in the amendment we tabled and which was rejected. it does, however, incorporate many positive points, such as the need for public control of water as a principle, and moreover the adoption of our amendment which reaffirms that water is a common good of mankind and that access to water is a fundamental human right which must be promoted and safeguarded.
in writing. the european union has enormous obligations - and advantages, let us admit - in terms of its contribution to development. the permanent discourse in defence of a model of values, a model of growth, a way of being in international relations must have a real correspondence. however, this policy, which should be a priority and which should serve to widen the space for economic development and democracy and respect for human rights, cannot be confused with an export policy that is part of the political agenda of some groups, movements or parties. there is a heritage in the western and developed world that we are part of that is sufficiently common and rooted, and it is this heritage that should be part of our development support effort. this must be the focus of our policies in the run-up to the millennium development goals.
in writing. the fight against poverty in all its forms deserves a global commitment involving the international community and with particular responsibility for the most developed countries. the reduction by half of the number of people living in extreme poverty, the containment of the spread of hiv/aids and the universality of primary education in the world, among other things, are objectives which deserve universal support and to which the european union cannot remain indifferent. in view of this, i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the millennium development goals are goals which the european union, as a defender and promoter of human rights, should support and encourage. if they are achieved, they will mean remarkable global progress and be a sign of true, active and effective humanism. however, i cannot but note and deplore the attempt to manipulate concepts and language that has been used in the shadows of parliament's reflection on these objectives. the use of euphemisms to mean only globalization and the encouragement of abortion is the strongest evidence of this. i voted against that part. the adoption of such practices, which are real defeats of humanity, can hardly be called a victory over poverty.
author. the existence of a consistent community regional policy - and therefore adequately funded - is a prerequisite for the european union to promote the effective reduction of the regional disparities which successive enlargements have accentuated, as well as real convergence between the different countries. regional policy should be a necessary and fair redistributive instrument which minimises the negative consequences of the internal market for economically less developed regions and countries. if it is clear that the economically most developed countries in particular will be the ones to derive important economic benefits from enlargement, while cohesion countries such as portugal and greece will be the most affected at the macroeconomic level and will also face a real threat of reducing the structural funds in the context of budgetary constraints and the so-called statistical effect, i ask the commission: do you not think that much higher financial amounts than those proposed for regional policy in your proposal for the financial framework for 2007 and 2013 should be required to meet the needs of enlargement and to ensure an effective cohesion policy? what measures does it intend to take for the countries most affected by enlargement, such as portugal and greece? will it set up specific and adapted programmes for the development and modernisation of its economies in the context of an enlarged european union, as it has done in the past? are you prepared to advocate full compensation for the so-called statistical effect, i.e. to ensure that the regions affected by the statistical effect have the support they would have if the eligibility reference point were a european union of 15, since no region should feel disadvantaged by enlargement?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent enlargement is probably the greatest challenge ever faced by the european union. vision, leadership and a community spirit are required if we are to respond in the best way to the needs and impact of enlargement. it was a strong response of this kind to the challenges of completing the single market and economic and monetary union, when the amounts allocated to the structural funds were doubled. the challenge of a viable enlarged europe requires that regional development policy once again play a crucial role. strengthening and reinvigorating economic and social cohesion policy is therefore crucial, not only to combat the huge regional imbalances resulting from the entry of many impoverished regions from the new member states, but also to continue to address the backlogs still existing in several regions of the old member states. the latter aspect cannot be underestimated, not least because regional asymmetries may increase within the framework of the former european union of 15 countries as a result of the dynamics induced by enlargement, particularly in periphery-centre relations. this is why we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. in fact, taking into account the former european union of 15, it is estimated that the richest and most central countries are the ones who benefit most from enlargement, with countries like portugal, spain and greece probably the ones who benefit least or even lose out. in view of this, i return to the questions raised in the oral question because i do not consider that they have been sufficiently answered by the commission. has the european commission established the cost-benefit ratio of enlargement for each country of the european union? if so, and in situations where the cost clearly outweighs the benefit, does the european commission not think that ways should be found to compensate such countries?
mr president, regional policy has played a fundamental and very well defined role since the very first and weakest steps of the european union. the principle of solidarity was already there as a fundamental point of difference between our antagonistic points and other worldviews. the aim has always been to leave no region behind in the name of a simplistic vision, which is inevitable. this is why all member states and regions have always been committed to developing themselves and making their development models sustainable. today, we all want more, and besides wanting more, we are more. is it reasonable or even rational that after so much effort to achieve european cohesion we should think that just because we are more we are also richer? as european citizens we do not want to look at the make-up, we want to look at the substance, at the structure, and this means that we do not abandon all those regions which have not yet reached the process of real convergence and which, because of a financial and simplistic view, seem to want to get rich overnight. it also requires us to bear in mind the necessary link between regional policy and the lisbon strategy. strong links between these two objectives are crucial to their effectiveness. measuring growth only in financial terms is artificial and unsustainable. sustainable development must therefore be about convergence and competitiveness. to give priority to competitiveness, leaving behind those who are only now beginning to think about how to walk on their own, means that they will fall again and will not have the strength to recover on their own. for us, for all the citizens of this europe of solidarity, competitiveness cannot replace convergence. competitiveness cannot replace regional policy, the most visible policy, and therefore solidarity is needed with regions such as the algarve, the highlands, asturias and madeira, as well as with many other regions outside europe that have theoretically become rich overnight.
the recent downward revision of the growth forecasts published by the commission, and the slowdown in growth forecasts, compared with the already low growth in 2004, show that restrictive fiscal and monetary policies at european level and in the member states have limited domestic demand, public investment and economic recovery. its negative impact on unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, as well as on the worsening of social and territorial inequalities, is visible in the 20 million unemployed and the nearly 70 million people living in poverty, despite the fact that the operating results of large enterprises in the european union increased by 78% in 2004 and that profits as a percentage of gdp in the euro area are now close to the highest level for at least 25 years. in this situation, how can we accept the current relaunch of the lisbon strategy, based on competitiveness and the creation of a more attractive framework for businesses, insisting on deepening the policies of liberalization, particularly in the area of services, increasing the flexibility of the markets, reducing workers' rights, extending the sectors where low wage levels are in force, insisting on maintaining the proposals for directives on the organization of working time and the creation of an internal market in services? we won't take it. how can we accept that the council's conclusions only mention social inclusion in a brief sentence and refer to children in poverty, without taking a multidisciplinary and integrated approach to combating poverty and social exclusion? how can it be accepted that, despite the announced revision of the stability pact, we continue to insist on meeting restrictive, albeit somewhat flexible, targets, but giving priority to the dismantling of public and universal social security, when we know that public investment and the maintenance of public social security systems are essential to combating poverty and social exclusion? for all these reasons, we insist on the need to withdraw the proposals for directives on working time and the internal market in services, to repeal and replace the stability pact with a growth and employment pact, to give priority to the creation by 2010 of 22 million quality jobs with rights, to achieve the targets set by the lisbon council and to halve poverty and social exclusion as agreed in the lisbon strategy in 2000. we believe that the fight against income inequalities and the promotion of equal rights and opportunities and real convergence must be at the top of the economic and social agenda of the european union.
in writing. to their despair, the european council of 22 and 23 march was marked by an item which was not on its agenda but was imposed on it. the recent polls indicating a possible victory for the 'no' vote on the so-called 'european constitution' in the referendum to be held in france on 29 may have sounded the bells. the right wing and the social democrats, sisters, are mobilizing, encouraging all the more or less brazen interference in the campaign that is taking place in france. the european parliament is unacceptably using 8 million euros for propaganda in favour of the 'yes'. the pilgrimage of heads of state and government and all those who think they can influence the decision of the french people is increasing, trying to convince them of the hypothetical and non-existent 'advantages' (?) of the so-called 'european constitution'. the big employers and the trade union leaderships dominated by the social democrats or the right wing - with the european trade union confederation at the head - all strive to defend this project which undermines the sovereignty of the peoples and is fighting for neoliberal capitalism and militarism. the european commission and the european parliament are postponing decision-making in an attempt to avoid giving even more and fair arguments to the no. despite contradictions, the no in france will be the best answer!
in writing. my vote in favour of the proposed calendar, which keeps the plenary sessions in line with the demands of high-quality parliamentary work required of an institution such as the european parliament, does not undermine my conviction, and the defence i have made of the need to rationalise parliamentary work and the costs associated with it, in particular by adopting a single permanent seat in brussels.
in writing. the enlargement process to bulgaria and romania must, as in the past, be accompanied by a realistic assessment of its financial implications, otherwise enlargement will become a process of subtracting the conditions for the prosperity and development of the member states of the union. a correct assessment of the financial implications is not a selfish gesture on the part of those who have already joined, but rather an imposition of an institution's sense of responsibility.
in writing. the enlargement process to bulgaria, which must be subject to an individual assessment, is at present proceeding as expected and as required, since it is only late in the year for bulgaria to be able to start the application process. as you would expect, we are still far from being able to say that bulgaria fulfils the necessary conditions for membership of the european union. there are reforms to be made, habits that take time to acquire and a whole process of adaptation, which is not just legislative, that must be carried out so that neither the union is disfigured nor bulgaria is left in a situation of inability to meet its future new obligations. that said, the truth is that everything indicates that the conditions will be met in due time, and we should therefore welcome this further step in the enlargement of the european union.
in writing. in view of the insufficient progress made compared with the 15 enlargement states on 1 may 2004, bulgaria's intention to join the european union on that date was postponed. however, it is now clear that bulgaria has made significant efforts to meet the community criteria and to move closer to the community politically, economically and socially. the progress made in political and budgetary terms is noteworthy, providing a stable basis for bulgaria's remaining path towards european standards - a path that will be neither short nor easy. the european council of 17 december 2004 therefore endorsed the accession of bulgaria on 1 january 2007. the european commission, which had been issuing regular reports on the progress of the accession process, did so on 22 february 2005. parliament must follow in their footsteps. it is clear that for the union, the accession of a country like bulgaria will necessarily involve costs, which are desirably borne by an increasingly effective effort at internal cohesion, but above all an enrichment of its own capacity to relate to and understand the world. an increase in diversity. i voted yes.
in writing. the right wing and the social democrats in the european parliament - and not only here - continue to try to impose neoliberal capitalism on the applicant countries. the example of bulgaria speaks for itself. the ep welcomes the so-called 'structural reforms' in the framework of the capitalist 'market' and 'competition' which it considers to have taken place in the country. it shows its "satisfaction" with "the expansion of the private sector" and "the progress made in liberalizing vital industries" moreover, it 'encourages' the introduction of 'greater flexibility in the labour market' and 'encourages' the pace of privatisation to be maintained. more words for what? the whole accession process has been characterized by other impositions which we consider unacceptable, such as discrimination in the movement of workers, equal access to community funding, or the existence of unilateral safeguard clauses which can be used against the interests of these countries, and only of these countries. enlargement is taking place within a political and financial framework which takes no account of the interests of portugal or the needs of the new applicant countries. in front of the criticism of the way in which enlargement is being implemented, we are not opposed to the accession of new member states, provided that this is the will of their people and that portuguese interests are safeguarded.
in writing. it seems clear that bulgaria will be in a position to join the european union on 1 january 2007, as is accepted by the other community institutions. i therefore believe that the european parliament should add its own opinion to those already produced and publicly express its support for the enlargement of the union to that country. despite this principled position, there are still some gaps, particularly in judicial and police terms, which need to be effectively filled in order to allow for greater effectiveness in the fight against crime and to promote greater transparency and procedural guarantees, which are essential in a state governed by the rule of law. at this preparatory stage, it is also important to pay particular attention to the rights of ethnic minorities and the need to ensure their identity, as well as to protect children and the elderly, the most fragile and vulnerable parts of society, particularly in a changing society. i voted in favour, hoping that bulgaria could soon join the 25 in an ever larger and more diverse europe.
in writing. we have also abstained here, as we did in the last enlargement of the european union, except in the case of cyprus, where we voted in favour also in protest against the unacceptable occupation by turkey of a part of the north of the island. in principle, we are not opposed to the accession of new member states, provided that this is the will of their people and does not compromise portuguese interests. the truth is that, although the will of the romanian people is not well known, the truth is that there are expectations created by accession, after immense demands and impositions that we consider unacceptable, in particular the structural reforms that justified privatisations, and which had a negative impact on the life of the population. new demands, as several members have tried, seemed to us to be excessive and unacceptable. but the fact is that there are already impositions, such as the derogations on the free movement of workers and the limited financial resources, particularly for agriculture, which also deserve our condemnation. finally, we also disagree with the proposals under negotiation for the new financial perspective, which take no account of countries in difficulty such as portugal or the needs of the new applicant countries.
in writing. the assessment of whether or not the conditions for the accession of a new member state are met must be made on an individual basis, even if the accession may take place at the same time as that of another member state. but this possibility should not be conditional on the most important thing for accession to take place: that the assessment of the necessary conditions be realistic. only in this way will it be ensured that both the union, with all its member states, and the applicant country can derive all the benefits of accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. what i have just said implies that i regard the possibility of postponing accession as a positive one if there is a need to do so. but it doesn't mean i want it. for reasons of internal policy romania has started its reform process later than would be in its own interest. however, the pace of reforms is giving rise to confidence and hope that the adjustment capacity will be in line with the timetable desired by both parties.
in writing. the process of romania's accession to the european union has been dragging on since 1995. the negotiations and efforts made by the romanian authorities have brought about significant changes in the situation in the country in recent times. as such, the european council decided in december 2004 to conclude the accession negotiations with a view to accession in 2007. however, i recall the concerns raised in the nicholson of whinterbourne report (a5-0103/2004) about a year ago. at that time i highlighted serious problems, namely the lack of a rule of law, the high level of corruption, the lack of freedom of the press, and the lack of independence of the judiciary, which prevented accession from taking place alongside the other former eastern european countries, which did so as early as 2004. the motion for a resolution deserves my support because it contains, among other things, those which are also my main concerns for this country. romania will have the doors of the european union open, but it must realise the urgency of finding rapid, concrete and effective solutions to its most serious problems. i voted yes.
in writing. the european parliament always monitors the situation of countries which formally express an interest in joining the european union. it has obviously done so with regard to romania. it should be noted that this monitoring has been carried out with particular care in view of the delicate situation in the country and the delay in the accession negotiations. romania has made significant efforts and measures in recent years and it is expected that more solutions will be implemented in pursuit of romania's national objective of joining the european union. the various reports of the committee on external affairs, and in particular the most recent report, also by mr moscovici (a6-0077/2005) have documented this. the new romanian government, which emerged from the last elections, also deserves words and clear signs of encouragement. after successive delays and having missed the chance to join the ten countries that joined last year, i have no doubt that if the other recommendations are met, romania, along with bulgaria, will be one of the next states to join the eu. i voted yes.
in writing. bulgaria's accession to the european union is worthy of our agreement. portugal, which is well aware of the advantages of its own accession, should be among the member states which best understand the advantages of this accession and most support it.
in writing. the council, in its common position, rejected in general the amendments previously proposed by the european parliament and also departed from the original proposal of the european commission. the community seems unanimous in its aims of improving working conditions, preventing market distortions due to different working conditions in different countries and improving road safety, for which the controls of working hours, which are realistic and feasible, are justified. the council considered that there were considerable practical difficulties preventing the compulsory road checks on compliance with the directive on the organisation of working time from being carried out exhaustively, or at least to the extent desired by the european commission. the commission has been recording a steady increase in the number of infringements in its biannual reports on the application of regulation (eec) no 3820/85 and the adoption of practical and realistic control mechanisms is being sought. the rapporteur has tried to meet the council's common position by seeking to reconcile positions, and in a line which also deserves my agreement.
in writing. we voted in favour of this second reading, despite some differences of opinion on certain aspects of the new directive which lays down ecodesign requirements for products consuming electricity. we believe that it is necessary to focus on maximising energy efficiency and consumer information, but at the same time to ensure that the new legislation does not place a burden on small businesses. the directive covers objects we use every day, such as hair dryers, washing machines, computers, etc., which will be responsible for about 40% of the carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. only cars are excluded, because they have special legislation. there are important proposals in the report to safeguard micro- and small businesses and consumers. we'll see what the council's position is.
in writing. the objective which forms the essence of the proposal in question (ensuring the free movement of certain energy-consuming products, improving the quality of their environmental performance and promoting the reduction of energy consumption) deserves my agreement. the need for realism in proposals of this kind must, however, be safeguarded so that a good purpose does not become unworkable or burdensome for industry. the balance, together with the desire to improve environmental and energy quality, is an indispensable factor in proposals with this scope.
in writing. the aim is to define ecodesign requirements for energy-using products throughout their life cycle, with the main objective of reducing the negative impact of such products on the environment. it is a sensitive matter and, in this respect, parliament has tabled an important set of amendments at first reading, including those relating to conformity assessment of products, ecodesign requirements they must meet, the establishment of a credible and effective market surveillance system, support for smes and consumer information. in the common position, the commission and the council adopted some of the amendments suggested by parliament, but left out important concerns in this area. i support the rapporteur's proposal, which i consider realistic and quite favourable because of the compromise it makes possible. the clarification of concepts such as importer and manufacturer, the suggested increased rigorousness of supervision, mitigated by concerns about smes, the design of a margin for adapting standards to the specificities of the member states are examples of this. i voted in favour of the new amendments, which restore parliament's previous positions in a balanced way.
in writing. the progressive growth and development of maritime transport, which has many advantages, including environmental benefits, must nevertheless be accompanied by a constant effort to reduce the negative environmental consequences it will always have. in this sense, and in view of the interests and concerns duly expressed by portugal, i believe that this directive fulfils the requirements which justify my vote in favour.
in writing. the rapporteur's proposal is in line with parliament's original position at first reading. in fact, according to the amendments proposed by parliament, and taking the year 2000 as a benchmark, sulphur emissions from seagoing vessels would be reduced by around 80%, whereas the council's position provides for only a 10% reduction. in the context of the proposals made, i would like to stress the rapporteur's concern about the desirability of making progress within the international maritime organisation (imo) and, in particular, about the role that the eu could play in this respect. both the united states of america and canada and mexico have made important signals to tighten up the imo and eu agreements, and even the recent environmental accidents which have occurred in the united states can and should have a say in this matter. the rapporteur's idea of promoting the development of an environmental technology by creating and fostering a market for it is also interesting. the suggestions made in this context constitute a more effective solution for the protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. the fact that i share the concerns (and objectives) of this proposal for a directive which aims to ensure sufficient harmonization with a view to the development of the internal market and at the same time compliance with rules protecting public health and the environment justifies the meaning of my votes on the amendments in question.
in writing. this report recalls the danger to public health of the use of certain substances, either as raw materials or as intermediate materials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of toxic chemicals. the commission proposal, which the rapporteur, by introducing only one amendment, calls for support, seeks to restrict the use not only of toluene and trichlorobenzene but also of preparations containing them. the european union has always been concerned with these issues of the utmost importance to the lives of its citizens, in line with article 93 tec. the benefit of adopting the proposal in terms of protecting the health of european citizens is clear, so i voted in favour.
in writing. the 2006 budget is strategic in the objective of a growing europe. not only because it is the last of the current financial perspectives and the strategic framework within which parliament will decide its priorities for the period 2007-13, but also because 2006 will be a key year for achieving the objective of a europe of dynamic and sustainable growth, creating more and better jobs. the year 2006 will present enormous challenges for europe. in addition to meeting the financial needs of a union of 25, it is essential to ensure that the institutional and political changes resulting from the new constitutional treaty are carried out in the best possible way. it is therefore essential that europe be able to meet these challenges with coherent, well-coordinated and sufficiently funded actions, and that the 2006 budget be able to provide the appropriate response. but the european challenges for 2005/2006 do not end with the consolidation of enlargement and the new treaty, and decisions on various ongoing enlargement processes, the strengthening of the eu on the international scene and the launching of new measures to revive the lisbon strategy must be added to the list of challenges, and the resources needed to implement and sustain them must also be available. i voted yes.
in writing. my vote in favour of this report is due to the fact that, in voting on several proposed amendments, it has been possible to secure a set of solutions which are contrary to the specific interests of a peripheral country in relation to the large centres of production and consumption. and this without in any way compromising the security requirements. in addition, it is the workers themselves who are defended, since flexibility is allowed which runs counter to their interests.
in writing. i welcome the expected final adoption of the proposed regulation which, by repealing it, will clarify, simplify and update the provisions of the existing regulation (regulation (eec) no 3820/85). individual interpretations, which have previously given rise to legal disputes, will be avoided and the obligations of employers and workers will also be clarified, with the overall aim of improving the application of the regulation. the rapporteur has once again shown that he is working towards the council's common position and thereby speeding up the adoption of this relevant legislation. important changes will come about in terms of compulsory daily rest, the limit of weekly driving hours or the adoption of a legal framework allowing member states to impose penalties for serious infringements. the main objective of improving road safety is expected to be better achieved. i also hope that a fair competition environment will be promoted and at the same time that the social interests of those involved in road transport will be safeguarded. in the amendments i voted in favour of balanced proposals which take account of the special needs and interests of the most peripheral countries, such as portugal.
in writing. we voted against the joint resolution on the spring european council because they did not accept the positions we took, nor the proposals we put forward, of which i would stress: - notes the agreement of the european council on the reform of the stability and growth pact; considers that this constitutes an implicit acknowledgement that the 1997 stability and growth pact had negative consequences for employment, public investment and real convergence and prolongs the stagnation of the european economy; considers it essential, therefore, to repeal the stability and growth pact; - strongly criticises the fact that 'structural reforms' can be taken into account in budgetary assessments, as this will lead to perverse anti-social incentives which will lead member states to dismantle social security and the welfare state in order to avoid penalties under the excessive deficit procedure; - stresses the council's statement on the current wording of the proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, stating that it 'does not fully meet the requirements' of preserving the european social model, but regrets that the council did not take the opportunity to reject this proposal in its entirety. - believes that the fight against income inequalities and the promotion of real convergence should be at the top of the eu's economic and social agenda.
in writing. the vote in favour of this resolution does not prevent me from expressing some disillusionment with the outcome of the european council of 22 and 23 march 2005. both the revision of the lisbon strategy and the reform of the stability and growth pact have been lacking in ambition. public finances require more restraint, rationality and efficiency in investment, not more indebtedness. on the other hand, the lisbon strategy needed a revision that was more realistic and more geared to a genuine commitment to competitiveness. jobs are not created by decree, they are created by a healthy economy, and it cannot be said that the union has clearly gone that way.
in writing. the european council in brussels will, in the first instance, be inexorably linked to the review of the criteria of the stability and growth pact, which have been amended there after successive cases of non-compliance. these changes, while not being linked to the excessive rigidity of the previous model, need to be separated from the lack of clarity which, if not avoided, could have a negative impact on the international credibility of the euro and the stability of the public accounts of the member states. another relevant aspect that drew the council's attention was the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, which had failed at this intermediate stage of implementation. i think that the strategy has been a victim of its own ambition and the vague, almost proclaiming nature of some of the proposed targets, without a corresponding concrete and properly marked itinerary. while maintaining ambition, one wishes for more realism. despite some reservations about parts of the services directive, mainly because of the enunciation and defence of the so-called 'country of origin principle', i believe that it contains largely positive aspects which deserve to be exploited and put into practice at european level. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe/de group, considering that it clearly and critically identifies the main concerns of the european council.
the european security strategy challenges us to reflect on the union's role in world governance. the reports by mr brok and mr kuhne make excellent contributions to the challenge. to be effective and coherent, european foreign and security and defence policies must put the citizen at the centre, promoting human rights, international and humanitarian law and multilateralism in international relations, that is to say, they must be based on the concept of human security, as the kuhne report - in line with the important barcelona report on the doctrine of human security - underlines. this is all the more relevant as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism will have to remain europe's top security concerns. we must integrate these concerns into all aspects of external relations, in particular the new neighbourhood policy, and it is necessary, in this context, that the european union should have a permanent seat on the united nations security council, as has already been stressed. the european union should also work towards strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation and destruction treaties and for closer control of exports of nuclear material and arms in general. the union also needs to ensure that the action plan to combat terrorism is closely linked to its own foreign, security and defence policies, in an effort to integrate it with the overall strategy to combat terrorism recently outlined by koffi annan. this also implies fulfilling the development commitments made by european governments in the millennium declaration. poverty and injustice are breeding grounds for terrorism. for a security and defence policy that translates into more strategic independence for europe, with more capabilities and more integration of defence means, and a genuine internal market, we need the european defence agency to inform the discussions on equipment procurement, development and research policies. it is now up to the governments of the member states to make this new agency function, and the next financial perspective must demonstrate our governments' commitment to the success of the european security strategy, since it depends to a large extent on the resources made available to it in the union. i would like to conclude by saying that last week in sarajevo i heard, like mr von wogau and other members of parliament, the british general proudly commanding eufor, even without national insignia. i am convinced that if we had had a foreign policy and a european security and defence policy 15 years ago, europe could have avoided or stopped the war in the former yugoslavia earlier. today, the important altea mission in bosnia-herzegovina is proof that europe is capable and that, with the right means, it can and must assume greater responsibility for european and global security.
ladies and gentlemen, this is the first sitting i have chaired and i would not like to pass up this opportunity without thanking the members of the european parliament for the confidence they have shown in me. the next item is the oral question to the commission on the dismissals at alstom of mr wurtz, of the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left, of mr désir, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, and of mrs flautre, on behalf of the green group - european free alliance (b6-0167/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions to the commission on fiscal and environmental dumping by mr ford, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament, by mrs mann, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, and by mr watson, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (b6-0172/2005), and by mr jonckheer, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance (b6-0229/2005).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, let me begin by dealing with the specific case at issue. the commission is aware of the plans for the closure and possible relocation of the innovia films plant in bridgwater and we have asked the services to examine whether the measures taken by the state of kansas constitute a breach of wto rules. we will also explore, in cooperation with the member states concerned, whether any other remedy is available under international law in this situation. i wish to add that my own political judgement with regard to this case is absolutely the same as that expressed by honourable members in the debate. if us state aid rules apply in kansas, that is certainly a practice that is not allowed here. however, fortunately or unfortunately, the state of kansas is not part of the european union. in particular this involves looking at the possibilities offered by the complaint procedure in the context of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, which state that oecd enterprises should refrain from seeking or accepting exemptions not contemplated in the statutory or regulatory framework related to environmental, health, safety, labour, taxation, financial incentives or other issues. it should be noted, however, that these guidelines and the recommendations that may result from the complaint procedure are not legally binding. as regards the wto, the commission is evaluating the compatibility of the measures taken in kansas with the wto agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures. these rules, while in principle allowing wto members to decide on their own fiscal regime, prohibit tax exemptions when they directly promote exports. that is the case that we have to examine: whether the measures in kansas directly promote exports. if so, they run against wto rules. i wish to add a few general remarks on the role of the wto in the area of environmental policy. let me first stress that wto members have explicitly recognised the importance of working towards sustainable development and making international trade and environmental policies mutually supportive. the european union plays a particularly active role in this respect, but the work is not complete. wto members are free to choose their own environmental policy at national, regional and, in the case of multilateral environmental agreements, global level. this also implies that any action against illegal breaches of existing regional, national or international environmental legislation should be taken at those levels. the appropriate answer to ‘environmental dumping’ at global level is, therefore, to enhance environmental governance by means of legally binding instruments such as multilateral environmental agreements, and the commission is very active in that field. as regards the other question raised, about harmful tax competition in the european union, all eu member states are committed to the code of conduct on business taxation. the code aims at combating specific tax measures that affect, or may affect, the location of business within the community. almost all the harmful tax measures identified following a peer review process have been or are in the process of being removed. more generally, the commission’s tax policy aims at promoting the principles of the code towards third countries in order to tackle harmful tax competition on as wide a geographical basis as possible. in this respect, the commission has already included a reference to the principles of the code in several international agreements with third countries and aims at including this reference in future agreements. furthermore, the commission supports the oecd efforts to remove harmful tax practices.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it is a pleasure to have a fellow countryman preside over the session tonight. the case in point, the desire to move a cellophane plant from the united kingdom to the state of kansas, is only desirable because of the state's derogation from its tax and environmental legislation. unfortunately, this is no exception to the rule, because the rule is exactly what drives this kind of behavior. this case, as well as the alstom case referred to above, illustrates a well-known problem, that of relocations for reasons of anti-social or anti-environmental competitiveness. i could also give you several cases in portugal. the day before yesterday, workers from yasaki saltano, a group which has two factories in portugal, one of a dozen in europe, were here in strasbourg. this japanese multinational has already employed 7 500 people in portugal. today it's half and just yesterday the administration threatened that either my government will support it again or by august another 500 workers will be laid off. it is worth mentioning that this company has received land and infrastructure free of charge and that community funds have fed it for years and that the percentage of occupational diseases, of arthritis, is exceptionally high and that this is the argument of the administration not to make redundancies but to convince the patients to quit. mr president, this lie has to have an end. it is sad to see the commission admitting its incapacity and impotence in such cases. because that impotence is a quitting. because the united states and the european union are not only advocating the end of protectionism in the world trade organization, but are also restoring it the next day or establishing comparative advantages on the basis of disloyalty. it is essential that the breakdown of protectionism be accompanied by the raising of social rights and environmental demands. here is the alternative to the liberal order. then let's not complain about kansas.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral question to the commission by mr protasiewicz and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, on discrimination against workers and companies in the new member states in the internal market of the european union (b6-0173/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reuse, recycling and recovery and amending council directive 70/156/eec (com (2004) 0162 - c5-0126/2004 - 2004/0053 (cod)) (a6-0004/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. i thank all the speakers and the vice-president of the commission for their cooperation.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mrs murko said in her speech that cultural diversity is intended to defend and protect minorities. it happens that today all cultures in the globalized world are minority cultures, minority cultures, but that is not the reality that is translated by the markets. this is where the problem lies. it is ignorance that is against cultural diversity, but there are also those who consider culture as a mere commodity, there are also those who maintain that the current global media are mere platforms for the "production of content". this trend is now dominating the stage of international trade negotiations and is manifested in the european union itself, in various governments and, for example, in the proposal for a directive on the liberalization of services. that's why this debate is so important right now. because what is being argued here, and what the committee on culture has been arguing, is that we need another way, a way that commits this parliament, the european institutions and each member state to other priorities, other policies, other instruments. the resolution is very clear. states have an obligation to protect cultural diversity. the states have an obligation to protect media pluralism, the states have an obligation to intervene, to invest in the creation, production and distribution of cultural goods. in short, the states have an obligation not to resign. and that is what we are discussing here today again when we call for a common, swift and firm position from the european union in this negotiation.
mr president, the draft unesco convention sets out the principles of the sovereignty of states and their legitimacy to take whatever measures they see fit in the field of culture, but it points to the primary objective of removing them from the purview of the world trade organisation. this is clear from articles 13 and 19 of the convention and also from the document of 14 september 2004 of the international committee of the liaison of coalitions for cultural diversity, distributed by unesco itself. i quote, 'to include a clear commitment in unambiguous terms that states will pursue the objectives of this convention elsewhere and especially by refraining from undertaking liberalisation commitments in the field of culture in the context of international trade agreements'. it is not just a matter of enshrining chauvinism, isolationism and, what is worse, a new 'police' leadership that blocks the living and fruitful contact between cultures. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the community's action in the field of cultural goods and services. games and leisure and sport services, culinary translation, customs, cultural tourism, ceramics, textiles, embroidery, basketry, glassware, jewellery, leather work, wood, metal, furniture, interior decoration, objects of design, etc., etc. the following services are provided by the commission: you can put anything you want in there. the treaty on european union deals with the development of cultures and the respect of their national and regional diversity in article 151. but that is only for the cultures of the member states. as far as third countries and international organizations are concerned, there is only talk of cooperation in the field of culture. it was necessary to satisfy the member states, all the member states, in a europe of national identities, sometimes so bitterly conflicting and always jealous of their specificity, but the sovereignty of each one is fully safeguarded. the treaty precludes any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the member states in this field. so what is the commission's involvement in the proposed convention? does it intend to drag europe indirectly into a harmonization which the treaty itself excludes? does it want to remove europe from the wto, in a universe that is risky, unlimited in situations and with unforeseeable consequences?
for the gue/ngl group we believe that the state of fish and shellfish resources warrants recovery measures. these imply the need to restrict fishing, which will inevitably have social and economic consequences. it should therefore be borne in mind that any loss of income for fishermen as a result of temporary stops or fishing restrictions due to a recovery plan must always provide for financial compensation for fishermen whose objective is to offset the resulting losses. moreover, compensation is also an incentive for the commitment and involvement of fishermen in the implementation of the recovery plan, as the main objective of these plans is to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources as a way of securing the future of fisheries. recovery plans should therefore not necessarily lead to definitive measures to reduce fishing, either by promoting the killing of vessels or by lack of economic viability, given the absence of socioeconomic compensatory measures for the closure of the fleet. the cuts mean the permanent destruction of the means of production and, consequently, permanent unemployment for the fishermen. it is therefore necessary to enter socio-economic measures in this regulation, with their correspondence at the level of the community budget. that is the sense of our amendments which we think are fair. we hope that this will merit your support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say first of all that i shall confine my speech to the report by mrs rosa miguélez, and i should like to thank mrs rosa miguélez, mrs carmen fraga estévez and mr varela for their cooperation in this report, since it is in fact mainly aimed at portugal and spain in the fisheries and shellfish sector. i would also like to mention, on the positive side, the commission proposal to come along in a certain way, and the reform of the common fisheries policy has indicated that we have safeguard plans, recovery plans for areas and species that were in sustainability problems. but the fact is that we had to do a thorough job in the committee, also in agreement with the national authorities, particularly in portugal and spain, so that we could bring what was a good intention of the commission into line with what is reality. the european commission's proposal, as it stands, would in fact harm fisheries as a whole because, in order to safeguard the interests of fisheries and the seafood sector, it would cover the entire fishing fleet and set out a plan for the recovery of all fisheries, particularly in portugal. so we had to make some changes that were consensual. i think we've improved this degree a lot. some of the amendments which have now been tabled in this house, i think, have no reason to be because they are already provided for in the very proposals we have made in the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to comment on the miguélez ramos report on measures to restore the fishery in the cantabrian sea and the west of the iberian peninsula. and let me begin by congratulating our colleague, rosa miguélez ramos, on the excellent report she has presented to us and the extraordinary effort she has put into its preparation. the proposals contained in it must be fully endorsed by the european parliament and i hope that the commission will take them into account. we fully share the commission's concerns about the need to protect fishery and lobster resources in these areas of the atlantic and recognise that their current state justifies the adoption of appropriate exceptional measures. the member states that fish the most, the fishermen and the shipowners in this area are the main stakeholders in its proper application, but i stress appropriate measures, because the commission's proposals are clearly excessive if we take into account that the problem cannot be tackled exclusively from a single perspective. as policy-makers, we have a responsibility to find solutions which reconcile the principle of concern for the protection of biological resources with social and economic interests. the commission proposal, if adopted, would have a devastating impact on the portuguese fishing sector, as it would affect some 2 000 vessels, most of which catch very small quantities of these species. the proposals contained in the reports we are considering are therefore likely to allow the recovery of these stocks within ten years, mitigating the social and economic impacts. i am sure that the european parliament will give its full support to this report.
in writing. as we have repeatedly stated, the need to conserve fish stocks is and must be compatible with the needs of the people who live off fishing and the industries associated with fishing. the need for compatibility is also evident when it comes to ensuring the viability of the fishing industry in the medium and long term. but it must also be guaranteed in the short term. in this case portugal has no direct interests, but its parallelism with other situations in which portugal's interests are directly involved justifies these considerations, and explains my vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the krahmer report on the proposal for a directive on the typeapproval of motor vehicles with regard to their reuse, recycling and recovery, because: 1. the directive values the environment. the proposal calls for at least 85% of the mass of vehicles to be reusable and/or recyclable and at least 95% of the mass to be reusable and/or recoverable. otherwise, the model in question cannot be marketed. the directive gives manufacturers and approval authorities a reasonable period to check the conformity of the approximately 600 models currently on the market, also taking into account the production cycles customary in the automotive industry.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague mr holger krahmer on the important report he has produced on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the typeapproval of motor vehicles with regard to their reuse, recycling and recovery and amending council directive 70/156/eec, which i support, particularly as regards the improvement of the guarantees given by car manufacturers of the possibility of 'reuse', 'recycling' and 'recovery' of the vehicles produced. in the follow-up to the lisbon strategy, the european union cannot forget about environmental policy. in this context, the manufacturer's obligation to prove that the vehicle has been built in such a way as to respect the environment and to describe in detail a recycling strategy which should be made available to the body responsible for the final disposal of waste cannot be disregarded. the appointment of bodies responsible for the certification of environmentally friendly vehicles by the member states and the setting of a longer time-limit for the application of this directive (54 months) are measures which will ensure the proper transposition of this directive and ensure the preparation of the automobile industry for the entry into force of this community initiative.
in writing. the unstoppable growth in the use of motor vehicles, particularly in private transport, fully justifies the concerns about the environmental damage that this entails and therefore justifies initiatives such as the present one which, by increasing the conditions for recycling, reuse and recovery, aim to reduce these negative effects. in view of the fact that amendments were adopted which were of particular importance for the feasibility of this proposal for a directive, in particular as regards the time limit for its entry into force, i am voting in favour.
in writing. we regret the rejection of our amendments to the regulation in question which safeguarded the present and future of fishermen, fisheries and their strategic role in food, particularly in countries such as portugal. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment. that is exactly the purpose of our amendments: to ensure that socioeconomic measures fully compensate for the loss of income of fishermen, so that fishing has a future. unlike those who see the culling of vessels as a means of making easy money in the short term, without defending the future of the sector and forgetting the unemployment of many fishermen, we want to ensure the future of fishing. in view of the sustainability problem of some fish stocks and the need to restore them, the loss of income resulting from the closure of the fleets and fishermen affected should be fully compensated in order to guarantee the original purpose, i.e. the future of this activity. that is why we did not support this report.
in writing. the report in question, as it comes before the house, deserves my approval for striking the balance sought by portugal and which was called into question in the initial proposal, which envisaged a set of measures detrimental to national interests, particularly in the short term, without sufficient justification. i am not going to vote for the report.
in writing. in its neighbourhood policy, the european union must pay very particular attention to the balkans, both because of the need to monitor closely the development of countries which could lead to various integration processes and because the recent past must have taught us that peace is not a sure thing in europe. now, several years after the worst of times, the various balkan countries are slowly but steadily moving along a path which should satisfy us, even if we regret that much remains to be done. but, insist, looking back, our feeling must be one of satisfaction. happily, looking to the future, our feeling can be one of hope.
in writing. the adoption of this report should highlight, among other important ideas, the priority to be given to the fight against terrorism as the central line of the european union's common foreign and security policy. in this respect, dialogue with third countries, international cooperation and the implementation of the 2004 eu/us declaration are priorities. the fact that we share with our atlantic allies the awareness of the gravity of the threats to the free world is of the utmost importance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european security strategy (ess), which for the first time defines the concept of security in a broader way. security is seen as a precondition for development and greater emphasis is placed on factors which have not been considered as central to security policy until now. thus, in identifying the main threats to global security, the ees highlights the destructive force of poverty, malnutrition and disease. the ees has three strategic objectives. the european union must be able to: identify threats and take swift action through military and non-military means; ensure security in the eu's border regions now and in the future; and finally strengthen the international order. however, i would like to stress that the eu has serious shortcomings in terms of military means which could compromise its ability to carry out high intensity humanitarian interventions and it is also essential to equip the eu with technological capabilities to enable an analysis of possible threats.
in writing. the support which i deserve for this report, because it has sought to meet some of the discussions which are required of us at this time, does not remove the objections which the document which gave rise to it raises to me. unlike what would be expected in a document of this type, the time spent on threat identification is circumscribed by brief paragraphs summarising issues that merit a thorough assessment, while the document, conversely, devotes a significant part of its attention to the discussion on the means to be put at the service of the european security strategy. now, either the eu knows very well what these means are for - which is not stated - or it wants the means because it knows that without them it has no weight, it just does not know what it is for. in both cases, we must express our concern at some lack of depth and substance in contrast to similar documents produced by our allies.
in writing. the use of doping in sport is a public health problem with many dimensions, which concerns everyone, and in particular those most directly involved, the sportsmen. the need to achieve certain standards and results, imposed by economic interests and dynamics - which sometimes involve colossal sums of money - and by politics, which are in complete contradiction with what the true values and objectives of sport should be, promotes the use of a whole range of illicit substances, often harmful to the health of those who practice sport. sport should not be seen as a highly profitable instrument - only by some - but as an educational, cultural and social activity, which is of fundamental importance in the physical and psychosocial formation of the human being. among many other measures, it is necessary to define an educational and prevention policy that encourages a healthy practice of physical activity and sport that begins in childhood and adolescence and continues throughout life.
in writing. in voting in favour of this resolution, i join the concerns expressed here about the use of doping substances in sport, whether for reasons directly linked to the distortion of everything that sports competition should mean, or for reasons of public health. without prejudice to the rules of subsidiarity, it is clear that there is a level of action here where union intervention makes sense and can have, above all, a more effective result.
in writing. we consider this initiative by the ep's culture committee on a convention on the protection of the diversity of cultural content and artistic expressions to be important, given the importance of preserving and promoting cultural diversity and the current negotiations within unesco, particularly when a new round of negotiations is under way in the wto, which, at the behest of the big financial and economic groups, would liberalise and commercialise almost everything. the creation of an international instrument in this field could help to consolidate the sovereign and cultural rights of peoples and states and encourage the development of public policies in the framework of international cooperation, affirming that cultural products cannot be equated with a commodity and subordinated to the logic of free trade and that access to a diversified offer of cultural content is a fundamental right of citizens. in this context, it is essential to defend the extremely important role played by public services in safeguarding, supporting and developing cultural identity and diversity, ensuring pluralism and ensuring access to content and knowledge for all citizens. this also implies recognising the importance of public financial aid and the determination of this by the states.
in writing. if there are areas where subsidiarity makes the most sense, it is, as i have said many times, in the field of culture. this is without prejudice to all efforts at cooperation, co-production experiments, community programmes, and so on. this is without prejudice to the international effort which must be made to ensure an effective diversity of cultural content and artistic expression. the commission has always been aware of the need to ensure that the community's policies are not restricted to the most restrictive sectors.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report. the drought situation in portugal is extremely serious, as we know, and has just been emphasized by commissioner borg. just one month ago, on march 15, about 88 percent of our territory was in a state of severe, or even extreme, drought, and despite some recent rains, much is hopelessly lost. the truth is that according to the data available, even if it rains normally for the next few months, and the forecasts do not even point in that direction, we may be faced with a situation that only occurs every 40 years. agriculture is being damaged, livestock is at risk, the supply of some populations has already been restricted, and all this is happening in areas which are already normally depressed. it is the case that with the worsening of the situation for the summer months, tourism, one of the most important industries in portugal, is at risk of being seriously affected, thus multiplying the effect of this drought for several sectors and for several thousand portuguese. on the other hand, we must act immediately to prevent a repetition of the catastrophic fires of two years ago, which were also caused in part by a period of little rain, although nothing like the present. we are therefore faced with a situation which fully justifies the solidarity of the european union and the longer it takes to achieve it, the greater the costs to be covered and the smaller the positive impact. we hope therefore that the strength of the european parliament's approval of the proposed resolution will lead the commission to act swiftly and effectively, as i think it is clear here, with regard to the requests already made for portugal. we also hope that, if necessary, the commission will speed up the examination and approval of a possible state aid project - which has already been mentioned here - for the creation of credit lines to deal with losses and the needs of reinvestment and restructuring of farmers' indebtedness, the survival of which is, after all, the first reason why we are here today.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his speech and for the openness shown by the commission in the face of the difficult situation in portugal. as you know, a serious drought is currently affecting my country, particularly in the southern regions. i should like to thank all the members to whom i have had the opportunity to explain the situation for their solidarity and support, and i am pleased that this joint proposal, which has been endorsed by the main political groups in this parliament, has been put forward. we are entering a new dry season in portugal, after having had virtually no rain in the last autumn and winter, which are the rainy periods in portugal. in some regions, the moisture content of the soil is even less than 20 percent of the average for the last 40 years. as a result, all stocks of animal feed have been exhausted and no grassland or pasture has grown, and the use of the water still available in the dams is restricted, so it will not be possible to make new supplies in sufficient quantities for the next autumn/winter, and it will be necessary to feed the cattle until the next spring next year, in the expectation that a normal autumn in rainy terms will occur. this is absolutely intolerable for farmers and cattle breeders. it is therefore entirely justified for the commission to give a rapid response to the requests made by the portuguese government with almost no impact on the community budget, since, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, these are advance payments and derogations from the rules of several regulations, which in these circumstances are completely impossible to comply with, so that farmers are not penalized, as well as authorization for the granting of some state aid, particularly for small farmers. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in portugal should also serve as a warning for the future and should force us to reflect on the medium- and long-term solutions to this type of problem, both in terms of creating a european system of protection against risks and crises in agriculture, the timely debate on which the commission recently launched, and in broader terms, by strengthening the union's leading role in international efforts to tackle climate change and by presenting concrete proposals for strategic action after 2012. i think i have given sufficient reasons in the few minutes i have had to justify the broad support which this motion for a resolution deserves from the european parliament. i therefore call for a vote in favour, certain that the commission, as the commissioner has just said, will take this into account.
since the beginning of the year we have been alerting the european commission and the european parliament to the serious situation in portugal, as a result of one of the most severe periods of drought in our country, the social, economic and environmental effects of which will tend to be more acute as summer approaches. with the question put to the european commission in january and with the intervention at the plenary session of the european parliament in february, we raised the need for urgent measures to respond to the difficult situation in agriculture and also to ensure that the water supply in several regions will not be interrupted in the future. the situation in agriculture is worrying. autumn/winter crops have been lost and spring/summer crops are also at risk, such as tomatoes, maize, rice, fruit and vegetables or animal feed and the normal development of autumn crops such as citrus and wine. some reforestation after the fires of 2003 and 2004 is being lost forever due to lack of moisture in the soil. this situation puts thousands of small and mediumsized farmers in serious financial difficulties, so concrete measures to support portuguese farmers are urgently needed, such as those provided for in the resolution or, as we have proposed, the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by community funds, which will guarantee a minimum income to farmers in the event of calamities such as drought and fires, and a financial support line that will minimise the increase in costs and the decrease in agricultural production, as well as the temporary exemption from social security contributions, without loss of rights, for full-time farmers with an income of less than 12 edu and the extension of the campaign credit for two years without interest. on the other hand, short- and long-term measures should also be considered to ensure that water - a public good and a universal right - is available in sufficient quantity and quality to the population, and so we have proposed an amendment which calls for the presentation of concrete measures to support also the portuguese municipalities in the areas most affected by drought, while also insisting on the correctness of the activation of the european solidarity fund. finally, this situation has once again highlighted the need to prevent global warming and its consequences for climate change, in particular by achieving the important objectives set out in the kyoto protocol.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, portugal is experiencing a dramatic situation of drought, lost harvests, animals dying without food or water, environmental deterioration in the worst affected areas, an increased risk of a multiplication of forest fires in the summer, villages that are already dependent on water supplies from abroad. mr queiro has already mentioned that 80% of the territory is in a state of drought. the total losses to the agricultural sector are already over eur 1 billion and will tend to increase. the warmer seasons are approaching, with a significant increase in temperature, and no precipitation is expected between may and october. at a time when we want to make the most affected people feel european solidarity, there are supports that the union must facilitate and many of them do not mean money or subsidies, as mr capoulas santos has already mentioned, but goodwill and understanding of the difficulties that are felt on the ground. first, there are state aids. the commission should authorise the portuguese government to proceed with state aid to support farmers in the face of income cuts, supporting the purchase of animal feed and investments in water abstraction and transport, and facilitating the restructuring of farmers' bank debt. secondly, mr commissioner, we must advance the payment of all agricultural aid to farmers, not just some of it. thirdly, to allow the mobilisation of cereals from community intervention stocks resulting from surpluses in some member states. fourthly, derogations from certain community regulations - the commissioner has already referred to this - allowing grazing in areas of set-aside or in areas already affected by drought. fifthly, to provide funds and to put in place measures to prevent a large number of forest fires from occurring next summer as a result of the drought. sixthly, to re-examine the possibility of using the solidarity fund in these situations. seventh: maintaining the european positions on climate change and the kyoto protocol. mr president, commissioner, the european union is stronger when it is closer to its citizens. it is important that the portuguese citizens most affected by the drought can feel that they are also european citizens.
mr president, my first word is solidarity. solidarity with the people of the regions most affected, in particular farmers in the south and in the south of portugal. a very special word for the algarve and the left bank of the guadiana where the most dramatic situations occur. solidarity which, of course, does not stand in the way, and i would like to assure our colleague guardans cambó that this solidarity is necessarily extended to the entire population of seville, huelva, badajoz, cáceres and beyond, who are indeed also suffering the full consequences of what i do not think can be called in any other way than a natural catastrophe of great dimensions. whatever the rules say, that is the reality and that is why solidarity is also a key word here. i am very pleased to see that no one is talking about the situation being made worse by a situation which has never been made worse, but has only been described objectively and realistically, and i am also very grateful to see the european commission's commitment to helping to solve these problems. but i would like to focus in particular on those aspects which are beyond the economic context, which are closely linked to a forestry strategy which, of course, depends to a large extent on the definition of the member states themselves, but which cannot do without a proper assessment by the european commission. and that is why, when i see the announcement, in the context of a revision of the forestry strategy, of a reduction from 20 to 10 years of the maximum period during which aid may be granted for loss of income, i see that the european institutions have not yet been able to understand what it means to say that a correct forestry strategy is of crucial importance in combating these situations of near-desertification. income support is absolutely vital for decades in species that take decades to grow and then within decades, they don't produce anything. it is essential not only to maintain support for forestry in the south of the iberian peninsula but to strengthen it in relation to the alternatives. i would therefore ask the commission to pay the utmost attention to this aspect. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it has been said and repeated here, my country is dry and the situation of agriculture and livestock far exceeds fragility. it's dramatic right now. that is why the proposals we are voting on today are so important. they alleviate and partially compensate farmers' losses. but other measures are needed. the rational management of water, which is a scarce public good in the southern countries of the union, is indispensable. our civilization, and my country in particular, continues to waste a lot of water, and that has to change. the same could be said of the present common agricultural policy, which neither values mediterranean crops nor encourages rational land use or the ecological sustainability of the rural world. in august, during the fires that are to come, we will pay for this irresponsibility once again. finally, we need new european instruments for risk prevention. i think that mr capoulas santos is absolutely right about this. one of the things that needs to be balanced is the creation of a european crop insurance scheme which could channel part of the farmers' contributions into a disaster fund, a fund shared by the member states and the union, a fund which could act automatically in situations such as those which portugal and southern spain are experiencing now, but which other countries may experience at other times.
mr president, as has been mentioned several times today, portugal is experiencing a drought, perhaps the most severe since 1990 or 1981. the indices are clear on this matter. due to this dry weather situation, less than 50% of the maximum water capacity in the soil is recorded in the alentejo and the algarve. we are in april and at this very moment about 25% of portuguese municipalities have already implemented precautionary measures to mitigate the effects of the drought. when i mention these figures and all the others we have heard here today, and i stress them with particular emphasis, it is because these are the areas where the greatest number of people have been killed in mainland portugal in recent years. i am speaking to you because, for example, in the calamity of the fires of 2003 these were the areas that were supported by the solidarity fund when it was activated, and in which thousands of people saw their economic activities, assets and possessions completely engulfed by fire. i'm talking about the 2004 fires, where everything that stoically had withstood the consuming fury of the 2003 fire burned down. i am also talking about areas which are particularly affected by enlargement and which, in theory, have become rich overnight because of the well-known statistical effect. all these people who have been enduring and resisting for many years, despite the many adversities, people who live off agriculture, livestock, forestry, tourism and the environment, people with few resources, who are actually the most affected. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask you, commissioner, what is your readiness, what is the commission's readiness, to solve this structural problem in good time, so that these populations avoid seeing situations like this recurring in the future? i am clearly grateful to the commission for all the proposals it has put forward here today as emergency solutions, but as has been mentioned here on several occasions by different members of this house, structural proposals are needed and some of them are on the table, they only need the commission's approval.
author. - mr president, you know the biblical account of a people wandering in the desert for 40 years. there's a lot of myth in this adventure, and yet it's ours. in the case of the sarauis, it is not myth but facts of contemporary history that we speak of. these people have been waiting for 30 years in the desert of the sahara deserts. he's not looking for the promised land, he just wants to return to his land as a sovereign. mr president, as a journalist i have seen many refugee camps, as i discovered in ethiopia that there is a fourth world, a place where people walk, walk and walk, because walking is a way of survival. but i've never seen anything like the fields of tinduff. there's no electricity on the sands, but solidarity has brought solar panels. there is not a drop of water there, but the aid provided equally reaches every refugee, as does flour, sugar or olive oil, and dignity. the sarauis depend on help, but they are not beggars. this parliament therefore has a responsibility which is an urgency: to restore the levels and the variety of humanitarian support, but it also has an urgency which is a responsibility. the real help is the one who can finally dispense the help. europe must commit itself to the referendum on self-determination, in deeds and not just in words, because they, the sarauis, have the time, but we have the clock.
on behalf of the pse group. - i know . in march i spent three days in the tents with other members and saw the very harsh conditions of the roads there. but we came and they stayed and i reinforced the conviction that it is urgent that the european union should work to free us from the obligation to continue for many more years to have to go to the most basic needs of the saharawi people who know, who have shown that they know how to work, how to organize and how to survive in the most inhospitable conditions, if they could return and take back control of their territory illegally occupied by morocco. the european union cannot be satisfied with appeasing the conscience of the international community and its member states, which have particular responsibilities in the obstructed process of decolonising the sahara, by means of humanitarian aid. the union must intervene to press for a political solution under the auspices of the united nations. blocked by morocco, by rejecting successively all the more contemporary proposals made by james baker, even leading him to resign. the member states cannot continue to ignore the question of substance, and in particular those who sit on the security council. the conflict is directly about europe and not just about historical responsibilities. european interests are at stake. on the one hand, western sahara could be a supplier to europe if its fabulous natural resources of oil, phosphates, fisheries and others could be exploited legitimately and sustainably, which is not the case under illegal occupation. on the other hand, european security itself is at stake. western sahara is next door and today we have an obligation to understand the mechanisms that feed international terrorism. for what incentive is there to the new generations of sarauis, refugees in tinduff, resisting in the occupied sahara, if not to throw them into the arms of fundamentalist radicals, if the european union, the united states, the arab world and the rest of the international community deny them the horizon of conflict resolution and condemn them to the despair of the powerless in the face of injustice, violence and destitution? i would also like to conclude by saying that the european union must also make it clear to rabat that it is in morocco's interest to put an end to the illegal occupation of western sahara.
we consider the european parliament's resolution to be very important, but insufficient, in view of the difficult humanitarian situation facing the sarawak people in the refugee camps. it is essential to guarantee immediate and effective solidarity in the areas of food aid, health and education to these populations and to ensure their maintenance in the future. it is also necessary to show solidarity and take concrete, immediate and effective action to put an end to the unacceptable occupation of western sahara, guaranteeing the right of the sarawi people to self-determination and independence and implementing the united nations resolutions.
now the honourable member has made his point of order but unfortunately i cannot answer for the simple reason that i would have to make that complaint 24 hours before this debate. the debate was fixed at the conference of presidents, no complaint was made 24 hours before and therefore i cannot take up your point of order.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the vote will take place now. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 4.55 p.m.)
mr president, because this report is important for the credibility of parliament, i have three points to make. first, our obligation begins at home and in the countries that will one day be part of it. it is therefore not right to exempt the applicant countries from this assessment. the kurds or the turkish democrats do not thank us for this favour. secondly, the report still contains the shadow of a double standard. for example, in morocco, we welcome the progress made, but we ignore the fact that journalists in that country can still be prosecuted for referring to the sarawis of tindouf as refugees and not as abductees. third and final comment on terrorism. it is good that we recognize how hunger and poverty have contributed to the phenomenon and that the fight against terrorism has often eroded the values that can really defeat it, but the rest is missing. there is not a word about the persistence of situations of military and colonial occupation and the way in which they breed violence against the innocent. does anyone doubt that israel's insistence, not only on the wall, but on the settlements, mortgages any lasting solution of peace and human rights in the region or that the result of the theory of preventive war is not, tragically, in plain sight in iraq? that is why, in order to highlight several important aspects of this report, i shall abstain tomorrow. we'd be obliged to more and better.
in writing. this is a report with a lot of hypocrisy and a lot of untruths. there are many examples. from the way it forgets the kurds and the turks who are victims of repression or the violations of the fundamental rights of the people of western sahara, to the way it refers to venezuela and cuba. i would like to emphasize these two cases in particular, in view of my recent personal experience in these two countries. as for venezuela, where i visited twice last year, including during the recall referendum which president chávez won by an overwhelming majority, i could see that the venezuelan government was the one who had difficulty in accessing the media, particularly the various private television stations in the country which were controlled by the opposition. the delegation of members of the european parliament itself was a victim of this. it is precisely the venezuelan government that is seeking all cooperation with the neighbouring countries, and that is why paragraph 84 of this report is unacceptable. as regards cuba, where i was also recently with a delegation of members from three different political groups in the european parliament, it is regrettable that paragraph 78 of this report does not mention the american blockade of cuba and insists on the exceptional treatment of this country, ignoring the whole situation resulting from the permanent blockade measures of the united states.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the social model is respected and that the social partners are involved in the decisionmaking process. i would like to begin by saying that i fully support the priorities set by the european council, which translate into widespread access to high-quality health care in a context of long-term financial sustainability. although health and social protection policies remain the responsibility of the member states, the european union has taken a step forward by applying the open method of coordination in this area, thus deepening cooperation between national policies. the open method of coordination is undoubtedly the most effective instrument of action in this respect and in the present circumstances, but we must be aware that the main target of this type of measure is the citizen as a consumer of health care. without a climate of trust between citizens and health services, everything will be mere intentions. as in all consumer-supplier relations, the existence of a climate of trust is essential and, for good reason, in the health sector. in some member states, however, the level of public confidence in services is far from being desirable. the essential prerequisite for the system to work is that citizens have confidence in the services at their disposal, but for this to be a reality, health users cannot be denied any kind of information. it should be clear that the rights of the patient are the most important and the first of all is the right to information about his state of health, about the possibilities offered to him in terms of health care and long-term care and about the level of quality of care offered in the market by the different providers. the great objective, which is still a utopia today, is to provide all european citizens with access to high-quality services without any limitations, regardless of age, sex, nationality or economic status. but to make this possible, the member states must not fail to take account of the need to carry out reforms in order to ensure the financial stability of the system, and to this end it is necessary to introduce the principle of the payment by the patients of some of the health costs. the member states must accept that every service has a cost, but as far as the payment by patients is concerned, their economic situation must also be taken into account, with the state naturally having a greater share of the effort to help the most disadvantaged. the governments of the member states are sovereign in this area, but this initiative cannot but be regarded as an important step in the construction of social europe. so i want to greet you in a very positive way.
mr president, ensuring the existence and democratic and participatory functioning of a public system of social security, which is universal and based on solidarity, and of a national health service, which is also public and universal, is essential to ensuring social inclusion, thus benefiting people with low incomes without discrimination and guaranteeing equal access to quality public services for all, while ensuring fundamental human rights. hence our disagreement with proposals which open the way to the privatisation of public services in these essential areas, including our opposition to the bolkstein proposal for a directive, which aims to create an internal market for services, and to the proposal for a directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, which, by calling into question the working conditions of health professionals, also calls into question the health of the users of their services. (applause from the left)
the creation of a single market for financial services has been a decisive factor in the construction of the internal market and, consequently, in the further economic and social development of europe. in this context, the financial services action plan, adopted in 1999 and reinforced at the lisbon and stockholm european councils, is an indispensable instrument. it is now widely recognised that the financial services action plan is a great success, with 39 of the 42 legislative measures adopted having been enacted; it is however premature to give a definitive judgment because many of these legislative measures are not yet in force. the effort that must be made at this stage is therefore precisely to ensure that the necessary implementing measures are transposed into national law and, above all, that their operation is monitored in a transparent and effective manner over a period of time. the monitoring of the fsap, which allows the impact of legislation on the proper functioning of european financial markets to be measured and the development of promotional, supervisory and anti-discrimination measures to be developed, should be the priority objective of the commission and the member states in this area. among the various aspects which the report refers to in order to provide guidance, i would like to highlight, because of its enormous importance, the call to the member states to implement the directive on vocational rehabilitation institutions quickly and with full effectiveness, which will make it possible to increase the possibilities and alternatives of savers and offer them a maximum return on their investments. however, the main message of this report is that member states need to adopt the 'better regulation principles' adopted by the commission in due course and that national supervisory practices need to be more closely aligned with the measures included in the financial services action plan. it is also very important to conclude that any future legislative measures aimed at correcting market failures should take into account the cost/benefit of their implementation in relation to the economic balance of their absence. mrs van den burg's report deals with all these problems of financial services in a very sensible, coherent and intelligent way and should therefore deserve the support of this parliament.
mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of reciprocity as a fundamental principle of visa policy and we believe that a common european policy on visas should always be based on the principle of solidarity. a mechanism is needed to ensure that european citizens are not required to obtain a visa to travel to third countries whose nationals do not require a visa to enter the territory of the union. however, several third countries require visas for citizens of the union on a non-reciprocal basis. the existing mechanism has never been applied since its creation in 2001. mr frattini has already acknowledged that this mechanism is too rigid and lacks functionality, and he is quite right. in addition to being triggered only at the request of the member state which is the victim, the almost automatic nature of the reintroduction of the visa requirement is ultimately a deterrent, since it entails excessive risks of provoking external crises in relations with third countries, as well as internal crises due to lack of solidarity in the event of a possible blockage in the council. as a consequence, the member states which have been victims of this situation, such as my own - portugal - have always refrained from using it. with the latest enlargement of the union, the situation has worsened. it has already been mentioned that, for example, the united states requires visas for nine of the ten new member states and canada for seven of them. we therefore agree that a more flexible mechanism should be created to ensure greater operability and more effective implementation, to reinforce the principle of solidarity between member states, while at the same time giving the commission a crucial role based on its competence in visa matters. i therefore support this proposal and the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr henrik lax, whom i congratulate on his excellent work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat theft and the illegal trade in stolen vehicles. this is a form of crime that has been growing, with over a million vehicles stolen each year, of which less than 40 percent are recovered. we are concerned about this problem not only because of its important economic expression but above all because it is linked to other forms of crime such as drug, arms and human trafficking and because it is a very lucrative activity which, without involving great risks, has become quite attractive to organized crime networks. it is therefore urgent to adopt new measures to combat this type of crime. in a europe where internal border controls have been abolished, it is essential that there is a response with effective measures at community level. the proposal is to give public car registration authorities the right to access directly certain categories of data in the sis - the schengen information system - while private car registration services would only be entitled to request indirect access through a public authority with access to sis. the aim is to make the schengen information system an even more important instrument in the fight against crime. it is necessary to control more quickly and effectively whether the vehicle whose registration is sought has been stolen, diverted or lost. we have also improved the functioning of the internal market by strengthening the principle of free movement and, consequently, by promoting the progressive establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice and the implementation of the common transport policy. this direct access will make it possible to prevent vehicles stolen in one country from being registered in another country in good time, sometimes in less than 24 hours, and thus from being legalized. there are two arguments for this measure: first, efficiency - the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vehicle is registered in the member state in which it is registered. all of these shapes are more or less opaque and complicated. the solution proposed under the schengen convention is more transparent and offers more guarantees than the current situation. we want to continue to preserve the data protection and privacy of our citizens. we therefore restricted the type of data that can be accessed and i proposed that the proposal for access to data relating to identity documents, as recommended in the opinion of the joint supervisory authority, and data relating to blank official documents, be deleted. the data set to which the authorities competent for vehicle registration will have access is clearly defined and limited to what is necessary and appropriate. i would also like to point out that directive 95/46 on the protection of personal data is applicable here, as are the specific rules of the schengen convention on data protection. we want to make sure that these standards are actually respected and monitored. to this end, it is important that data protection authorities have sufficient resources to fulfil their tasks and that member states are firmly committed to upholding the fundamental right to data protection. in april 2004 we adopted my report, which proposed ten amendments to the commission's original proposal, at first reading. in december 2004, the council adopted its common position. i very much welcome this common position and i am pleased that it follows in substance the recommendations made by the european parliament, having accepted seven of the ten amendments tabled. as regards the three amendments which were not accepted, i shall refer first to amendment no 4: i will not continue with it, because it is pointless, since on 24 february 2005 the council finally adopted the initiative of the kingdom of spain with a view to adopting a council regulation on the introduction of new functionalities in sis, particularly in the fight against terrorism; secondly, to amendment no 11: it was an attempt to amend the data protection rules for sis, but i agree that this issue should be dealt with in the legal proposal for sis ii, the second generation of sis. thirdly, amendment no 10, which provided for the submission of an annual report on the application of the proposed access by the competent authorities. i would stress the need for parliament to receive a report enabling it to make an assessment of the system so that it can exercise its legislative and budgetary authority. i propose a slightly different wording which, after an informal meeting with the luxembourg presidency, i assume will be accepted by the council. the conditions are thus being created so that the legal act which will allow the introduction of this useful measure can finally be adopted. in this way, mr president, we are helping to combat crime and to strengthen the security of our citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, world public opinion is slowly waking up to the new problems of the day. environmental quality is not a luxury, it must be a political priority as a condition for sustainable development. rulers, some more than others, are coming to realize that the world has changed and that policies must change too. everyone is becoming increasingly aware that the destruction of the environment threatens the future of present and future generations and irreversibly degrades people's quality of life. environmental and health concerns are relevant and timely. ignorance of the past and laxity of the present have high costs - environmental costs, financial costs and costs in human lives. it is therefore necessary to remedy this, but it is above all urgent to prevent it. over a thousand different compounds are now produced by the chemical industry. some of these compounds are persistent, that is, very resistant to degradation in the environment. some of these compounds are bioaccumulative, that is, they accumulate in the tissues of living organisms and are also toxic. among these toxic compounds, persistent organic pollutants, or pops, are prominent, and they are associated with a number of health problems, including cancer, endometriosis, cognitive and learning disorders. pops are also responsible for reproductive defects and hormonal dysfunctions. because they are resistant, pops are passed from generation to generation and contaminate the food we eat, the air we breathe and the water we drink. because pops are bioaccumulative, they accumulate in the environment and in the bodies of living organisms. because of these characteristics, pops spread everywhere and can be found as far away as antarctica in penguins, and in the arctic region in polar bears. it is no use, for example, for brazil to stop producing mirex if argentina does not, and it is no use for the european union to ban ddt if china continues to produce and use it. i would therefore urge that concerted efforts be made at world level. it is important to remember that many of these substances did not exist fifty years ago. negotiations to control the use, production and release of pops were launched in 1995. twelve pollutants have been identified. the stockholm convention, which was concluded in 2001, sets out a set of objectives and measures aimed at better managing pops, but also at their elimination and the promotion of cleaner technologies. in view of the decisions of the stockholm convention, which took place, as i have already said, in 2001, and the objectives and agenda of this first meeting of the conference of the parties, to be held in uruguay from 2 to 6 may, it is appropriate to ask the commission what its own objectives are for the said conference. i would also ask you what results you hope to achieve and how far you think we can go and, because everything has a cost, i would also like to know, commissioner, what financial resources will be available to help the most deprived countries to abolish pops. i will not be going to punta del este, i will not be attending the conference, but i want to support mrs doyle's concerns here, all that she has said about the representation of the european parliament, and i agree that it should have observer status. it is absurd that members, the elected representatives of the european parliament, should not be able to take part in all initiatives, all conferences, all meetings.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report approving the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and brazil, taking into account the interest of the parties in developing cooperation in a number of areas. the priority areas covered by the agreement are public administration, economic cooperation, social development, research, technology and the environment. for example, it is proposed to develop cooperation in the fields of biotechnology; information and communication technologies; bioinformatics; space; micro and nanotechnologies; materials research; clean technologies; sustainable management and use of environmental resources; health and medicine; aeronautics; metrology, standardisation and conformity assessment; and human sciences. the agreement also states that it is intended to establish cooperation in scientific and technological research in order to intensify cooperation in various fields and to encourage the application of the results of this cooperation for the economic and social benefit of both parties (european union and brazil).
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil. i consider it essential that appropriate instruments be created for a considerable extension and complement of the existing cooperation within the framework of the specific activities of the 6th framework programme for international cooperation with developing countries. parliament should therefore continue to encourage the creation of cooperation mechanisms in the fields of scientific and technological innovation. the european research area is the ideal framework for improving and intensifying cooperation between brazil and the european union, taking into account the importance of science and technology for economic and social development and the mutual desire to expand and strengthen the implementation of cooperation activities in areas of common interest.
in writing. the ec-mexico agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is a key instrument for improving and intensifying cooperation between mexico and the european union in the fields of science and technology. i consider it essential that appropriate instruments be created for a considerable extension and complement of the existing cooperation within the framework of the specific activities of the 6th framework programme for international cooperation with developing countries. parliament should therefore continue to encourage the creation of cooperation mechanisms in the fields of scientific and technological innovation. the european research area is the ideal framework for improving and intensifying cooperation between mexico and the european union, taking into account the importance of science and technology for economic and social development and the mutual desire to expand and strengthen the implementation of cooperation activities in areas of common interest.
in writing. the agreement on the free movement of persons between the union and switzerland following the enlargement of the eu in may 2004 was not automatically extended to the new member states. switzerland is, however, like the eu member states, benefiting from the recent enlargement. not only through greater political stability within its geographical neighbourhood, but also through the new enlarged internal market. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the agreement under consideration will facilitate the posting of swiss nationals to the new member states, where many swiss companies are already operating. at the same time, citizens from the new member states can now be recruited more easily by swiss companies. in the long term, all eu and swiss citizens will benefit from free movement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mr carlos coelho on 'access to sis for vehicle registration services', as it reflects the need to facilitate the fight against vehicle theft in an eu where internal border controls have been virtually eliminated. in view of statistics provided by europol, 1,149,114 vehicles were stolen in the eu in 2002 alone, and i therefore consider it urgent that the eu put a brake on the trade in stolen cars.
in writing. the need to ensure security and the rule of law in a freer and larger europe requires the legislator to seek, at the same time, to protect citizens by ensuring that the authorities have the necessary conditions to promote their security. but at the same time, it also protects citizens from unnecessary and undesirable interference by the state in the private sphere. in other words, as always, even in matters that may appear to be of a minor nature, a balance must be struck between the needs of security and the defence of freedom. it is the case of the diploma which justifies this recommendation, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. it is important that the precautionary principle is applied when it comes to protecting groundwater against pollution, which is currently provided for in directive 80/68/ec, until 2013. it is intended that after that date protection will be ensured by the so-called water framework directive of 2000 and by the directive, the first reading of which is now under way. the report also stresses that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides in the production of food and that the commission should be able to take account of the environmental impact of the use of pesticides. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. secondly, there must be the political will to take the necessary measures to prevent pollution and protect the quality of groundwater.
in writing. the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution, which lays down rules for the protection of groundwater against pollution, does not provide for clear quality objectives or require an exhaustive and continuous assessment. its revision is necessary to provide more available data on the quality of groundwater in europe. it is also essential for achieving good groundwater chemical status by 2015 to preserve uncontaminated groundwater from contamination. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to improve the environmental protection instruments and water quality objectives in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr harkin's report because i believe that there are new challenges facing us today in the area of improving living and working conditions. the objectives of the foundation are to be commended and the proposed adjustments will certainly help to make it more effective and more tangible. the principles of good governance are fundamental to the proper functioning of the european institutions and should therefore preside over all reviews and assessments of their constituent texts.
in writing. the regulation establishing the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in 1975 is being reviewed on the basis of the results of an external audit. the foundation's main objective is to develop thinking on improving living and working conditions in the medium to long term and to identify factors for change. the main changes are aimed at an internal reorganisation of its management bodies, greater involvement of independent experts and an increased role for the social partners and representatives of national governments. this strategic and operational review will enable the foundation to pursue its responsibilities more effectively and transparently. by providing information and analysis on living and working conditions, the foundation has made a significant contribution to the development of community social policy. i therefore vote in favour of these amendments.
in writing. all efforts to improve safety and health at work - as long as they are effective - deserve our applause. europe, although having a standard of safety and health at work which is, in relative terms, remarkable, has, however, still much to do to improve these results. the european union is still faced with a clear lack of assurance and compliance with health and safety rules, which is why serious accidents at work continue to occur. to avoid these cases, it is necessary to create adequate legislation, to ensure that it is complied with, and to promote good practice. that's what i hope this agency knows and can do.
in writing. on the basis of an external audit carried out to assess the functioning of the european agency for safety and health at work (bilbao), the commission proposed a number of amendments to its constituent regulation. i voted in favour of this report because the amendments seek to clarify the objectives and responsibilities of the agency, improve its operation, strengthen the role of the social partners and increase cooperation with other bodies active in the social field. the agency plays a key role in disseminating information and promoting exchanges of experience on health and safety at the workplace. this task is essential in the face of the real tragedy of workplace accidents, which have incalculable human and financial costs. the agency also participates in the decision-making process by providing the european institutions with information relevant to the adoption of legislation in the social field, in particular as regards the impact of this legislation on smes. in addition to this role of collecting and disseminating information, the agency will now analyse data on occupational safety and health. any amendment that makes this agency more transparent and efficient deserves my unequivocal support.
in writing. in international affairs the eu must bear in mind that different member states deal with third countries in different ways, and legislation must therefore ensure that each member state is able to act and react to its own situation in the world. the flexibility of a mechanism which, although necessary, was not put into practice because it was essentially difficult to use, seems to me to be fully justified. i would also add that the fact that the door is open to the possibility of using other types of action besides the reciprocity mechanism itself seems to me to be useful and potentially effective. i therefore believe that the solution we have found deserves our support.
in writing. as i have said in previous voting statements, the pressure on the new member states to incorporate the acquis communautaire into their national legislation, using the false argument that 'non-transposition' would block the progress of economic growth in the european economy and exacerbate regional disparities, is unacceptable. this is a double standard: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the free movement of goods and services, in particular by introducing a system of proportional representation. the report we are discussing does not take into account the specific features of the new member states and their backwardness compared with the other countries of the european union and the need to define measures to support the functioning of the markets as a way of promoting economic and social cohesion. a cohesion policy needed to increase the funds available in the financial perspective, promoting integration with economic development criteria based on the promotion of employment and social inclusion and the elimination of asymmetries between regions and countries in the enlarged european union, while maintaining levels of support for countries with structural backwardness, as is the case in portugal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is essential that we make a real assessment of the situation in the new member states. barriers to the movement of people, goods and services must be removed if the conditions for an open market are to be established and if all growth opportunities for these economies are to be created. however, since it is primarily up to private enterprise to take advantage of these new opportunities, it is nevertheless necessary to ensure that public authorities ensure the correct and timely transposition of the internal market directives.
in writing. much could be written about this annual report of the european parliament, which, as in previous years, has been used as a weapon of pressure and political interference, whereby the so-called 'friendly' countries are protected and the 'other' countries, those countries which the usa and the eu have targeted, are criticised. among many examples, the report whitewashes the military occupation of iraq by the us and its allies. the occupation troops are euphemistically referred to as "military forces stationed in the country"...;- does not condemn the israeli government for the military occupation of palestine, nor for the construction of the wall, expressing "concern" about the "security/separation barrier"; e:- 'condemns' the council's lifting of sanctions against cuba, in line with us policy towards that country; and, astonished, calls on the venezuelan government to guarantee 'freedom of expression and information' when the overwhelming majority of the media in that country is controlled by forces that have not looked to any means to subvert democracy; the report was approved by the right wing only this year, and the number of votes in favour was far less than the number of abstentions and those who, like us, voted against.
in writing. the picture that our colleague mr coveney's report gives of the protection of human rights in the world is unfortunately realistic. the truth is that we can hardly help looking at this report and feeling that the privilege of living in this part of the world is inevitably accompanied by the duty to act in concert and effectively in order to promote the protection of human rights (and democracy, because, it should be said, they are not juxtaposed concepts, they are inseparable. without democracy there is no protection of human rights). it is impossible to be exhaustive in dealing with a subject of this dimension, so there is one aspect, above all, which i would like to express here. i am concerned that it is not clear to many european politicians - and not only - that terrorism is the greatest threat to our societies, and that it is a threat not only to citizens (i apologize for adding innocents, because this statement generally allows us to assume that there could be justification if they were somehow lacking in innocence) but to our societies and the model they represent and also to democracy itself. finally, may this report be a clear sign that europe will be uncompromising in promoting human rights and democracy.
in writing. i congratulate mr coveney on this annual report and the new systematization he has introduced. i am particularly fond of the appeal to the cuban communist regime in the final resolution, as well as the strong condemnation of terrorism, which i have been following as coordinator of the epp/ed group on human rights. and i am glad that the attempts of the communist and socialist left to erase the clear condemnation of the cuban dictatorship have been defeated. other areas which i follow with concern, trafficking in human beings and human organs, have also been adequately dealt with in this resolution, which is innovative and positive. i regret the left's attempt to present the right to abortion as a fundamental human right, going so far as to prevent the vote on an oral amendment by the rapporteur which read as follows: recognises the impact of mass rape making women and girls vulnerable to hiv/aids; calls on the eu to ensure that all women and girls who have been raped are immediately provided with full medical care; the left, after rejecting this oral amendment, succeeded in getting the amendments it had tabled here approved, but ended up abstaining in the final vote as a whole, which proves its purely chicanery against a serious view of human rights.
in writing. we voted in favour of this joint resolution, to which we also contributed, because we consider it urgent to eliminate the persistent and violent tendencies of racism and racial discrimination against the romani people, aware that any form of impunity for racist attacks, physical attacks by extremist groups, illegal expulsions and police intervention motivated by hatred of roma and 'roma-phobia' contributes to the weakening of democracy, tends to encourage the recurrence of such crimes and requires resolute action to eradicate them. 8 april has been proclaimed international romaniche day and is considered the annual day of their celebration, being an opportunity to raise awareness of the extent of their social exclusion. we consider it important that all forms of discrimination, including those against the roma, should be firmly condemned once again. we hope that their rights will be fully recognised in all member states and that they will take the necessary measures to combat negative images that incite discrimination, hatred and racism against roma and 'roma-phobia' in all its forms, whether at local, regional, national or european level.
in writing. while it is true that social protection and health care systems are the responsibility of the member states, it is equally true that we want citizens in europe to have the best, most adequate and most effective social protection, and the same applies to access to health care. on the other hand, the present moment should alert us to the trends which are already dominant, namely those resulting from the ageing of the population, and ask us to find in good time the answers to the problems which are already evident. finally, it should be remembered that the broad consensus on this subject is usually a consensus on the objectives, on the results to be achieved, and not on the means, on the methods, since the differences are obvious and well known.
in writing. the financial services action plan was born almost a year before the lisbon strategy, but it is one of its fundamental pillars. the objective of creating an internal market for financial services and integrating capital markets is not only to further liberalize investment and capital movements, to give large multinational companies the means to restructure and raise capital at lower cost, to speed up the process of acquisitions and mergers of companies at european level, but above all to manage the enormous financial flows released by the progressive privatisation of national pension systems. it is ironic, although the rapporteur is not satisfied, that 39 of the 42 legislative measures in this plan have already been adopted, that is to say that the objectives of this plan are those that are best implemented, especially in the face of the timid social objectives included in the 'lisbon strategy'. and all this is done in technical jargon, with almost no prudential rules, leaving self-regulation to the discretion of the sector's agents. more jobs and economic growth are promised, but the consequences of this progressive 'financialisation' of the economy are clearly visible in the high number of regional and global financial crises and the flight of investment from the productive sphere to areas of capitalisation and speculation.
in writing. for those who, like me, advocate the full completion of the internal market, a necessary condition for the achievement of some of the most important objectives of the union - and a necessary condition for the achievement, more specifically, of the objectives set out in the lisbon agenda - the achievement of integration at the level of the financial markets is a welcome fact. on the other hand, the existence of an action plan for its implementation and the results that are becoming known justify some satisfaction. however, there is still a long way to go, which, as this report shows, must be accompanied by a proper assessment of what measures are becoming necessary over time, so that a good purpose is not undermined by either excess or lack of legal instruments.
mr president, following meetings with workers and managers of companies in the textile and clothing industry in portugal, it is necessary to reaffirm once again the urgency of measures at european union level in order to avoid a worsening of a situation already characterized by the closure of companies and the growth of unemployment, with the consequent social drama for thousands of workers and their families. it is incomprehensible that the european commission is delaying the implementation of necessary and immediate measures. it is regrettable that, in view of the current serious situation in the sector, the european commission has delayed the decision on the formal opening of the procedure leading to the activation of the safeguard clause, and has instead initiated a so-called investigation, which may take months. the socioeconomic situation in some of the regions most dependent on the sector is serious and could worsen if the european commission and the council continue to fail to assume their responsibilities.
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the cinematography of the member states of the european union as a historical, cultural and civilizational heritage must not only be preserved and enhanced by all means, but also made widely available for research purposes and also for cultural training and enjoyment, a principle which obviously applies to all other forms of manifestation of european cultural heritage. it is through such concrete policies and lines of action, which involve the preservation of memory and its maintenance in a fertile and multifunctional state, that the plurality of cultures of the member states of the european union and the extraordinary spiritual and material wealth that corresponds to them are defended. it is also in this way that the essential european added value which should be a feature of cultural projects supported by the union's institutions can be achieved and stimulated. european culture can assert itself vis-à-vis the cultures of third countries only by strengthening its own value, which takes all citizens who identify with it to ever higher levels of qualitative demand, both in their cultural creations and in their cultural consumption. europe does not have to defend itself against cultural products of cultural quality from other sources. if they do, they reflect the dignity of the human spirit and europe needs them too. but it's worth competing with them, at least on the same quality level. and against the spurious products from which it can be invaded, that is also what europe's defence is about and not in conventions to be secured in the instances of political correctness ostensibly proclaimed for the protection of cultural diversity, but in fact prepared to set up barriers in the name of more or less corporate and more or less parochial interests. i shall therefore vote in favour of this recommendation, even though i have some doubts about its legal validity, since even if it is called a recommendation, it is aimed at a harmonization which the treaty excludes.
the proposal before this house is balanced and sensible. that's why it's a good proposition. it is in line with the lisbon strategy and protects small and medium-sized enterprises. this proposal also includes significant elements of labour market flexibility. however, there are points of controversy. first, the opt-out. the possibility of maintaining the opt-out practice would mean that the european union would adopt a directive on sensitive aspects of minimum standards for health and safety at work, only to say in the same directive that whoever wants to comply with these minimum standards, does not comply with them. the continuation of this practice cannot therefore be seen as an element of flexibility. it would mean deregulation in a sensitive area such as health and safety at work. the european economy needs more flexibility in the labour market, but not at the expense of the absence of rules. there are other more effective ways of ensuring labour market flexibility, such as the one included in this proposal, which relates to the extension of the reference period. it is guided by the principle of subsidiarity, which leaves the member states free to choose the reference period between 4 and 12 months in accordance with their national realities and not the european union to unilaterally impose a fixed duration. finally, on working time and rest time, there is no reason why the european parliament should not comply with the case law of the court of justice. the principle of subsidiarity is once again put into practice in this proposal, which allows the member states to define the methods of calculation which they consider most appropriate for the purposes of wages and the calculation of working time. it should be made clear that the proposal presented has no other impacts than those i have just mentioned.
this proposal for a directive on working time is one of the most dangerous marks of the attack on workers' rights, calling into question the gains of a struggle of more than a hundred years, affecting millions of workers and their families. we therefore insist on the need to withdraw this proposal from the european commission and to draw up a new one completely abolishing the opt-out, refusing to classify idle time, respecting the case law established by the court of justice, facilitating the reconciliation of work and private life and protecting the health and safety of workers. we also insist on the need to reduce the working day to 42 hours and not to increase it from 48 to 65 or more. what europe needs is to set an example in defending more rights, not to approach asian standards in the name of flexibility and competition.
in writing. my vote in favour of this report is fully justified by the fact that i consider that the framework agreements in question are part of what, more broadly, should be the european policy of cooperation with its neighbouring countries, particularly those countries in question, whose recent past and future prospects justify support and close cooperation with the europe of 25.
in writing. improving and harmonizing the statistical tools used by the european union will make it possible to obtain a better understanding of the social situation in the countries of the union and thus, in principle, help the council and the commission in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. we therefore hope that the commission will finally come forward with more, better and faster indicators, enabling us to know the reality better and to act on it in an efficient and timely manner, given that the serious situation, with almost 70 million people living in poverty, with enormous economic disparities and high unemployment, requires quick and structural responses from the european union and the member states.
in writing. the accession of the european community to the upov convention is a positive step in safeguarding the desirable balance between the interests of breeders and farmers in the framework of the reasonable protection of the property rights of breeders of new plant varieties. for this reason, and because i consider that portuguese interests are thus defended, i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report was adopted by consensus, since the period of validity of the transitional measures envisaged must be extended until the establishment of a complete set of measures to combat bse. we therefore support the rapporteur's proposal, which proposes that the proposal for a regulation be split into two parts: first, it proposes to amend regulation (ec) no 999/2001 by extending the period of application of the transitional measures until 1 july 2007 in order to allow time for the necessary debate on the new measures. on the other hand, the preparation of a new regulation with the substantive amendments to regulation (ec) no 999/2001, i.e. the amendments to the rules, prevention, control and eradication of tses, insofar as these amendments require in-depth knowledge of the current situation, the progress made in the categorisation of countries, scientific progress and an in-depth debate on the revision of the regulation.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report approving the agreement between the ec and switzerland on the participation of that country in the eea and the european environment information and observation network. the aim of the agreement and of swiss participation is to provide objective, reliable and comparable information on the environment. switzerland will retain observer status without voting rights in the european environment agency, will benefit from equal treatment with regard to the provision of data, information and analysis in the field of the environment, and will create an infrastructure capable of providing standardised data and information on the state of the environment on its own territory. the agreement will make it easier and more accurate to provide reliable and comparable information on the state of the environment in europe and will also allow for better integration of the assessments and data provided on ecosystems shared by switzerland and neighbouring countries.
in writing. the geographical situation, the economic importance and the relations established in various fields between the european union, its member states and switzerland justify - indeed, recommend - switzerland's participation in the european environment agency. in this matter, as in others, the geopolitical boundaries must be supplemented by the boundaries of reality.
in writing. since there are no substantial changes to the vat system laid down in the sixth directive, which has been amended several times, i voted in favour. i am not, however, prejudiced by the fact that i will be able to express my views on the various matters covered by the system at the appropriate time - when such a discussion arises.
in writing. this report rejects the commission's proposal for co-financing market support measures for infectious diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever. i fully agree with the rapporteur and her proposal on this. there is, however, a difference in their assumptions of rejecting the commission's proposal, particularly as regards the particularly negative consequences which its proposal may have for the cap in general and for the conditions of competition in european agriculture in particular, which, although true, is not the fundamental reason for voting against the commission's proposal. in addition to the need to support farmers in the event of outbreaks of infectious diseases with concrete financial measures by the european union, putting farmers in the different member states on an equal footing with the market, it is essential to take the necessary measures to prevent outbreaks of diseases by supporting farmers, especially those with the least resources. our opposition to the cap reform and the proposed measures is well known, because of the consequences for portuguese agriculture and, in particular, for small and mediumsized farmers and family farming.
in writing. as the report rightly points out, the commission's proposal would not only create an imbalance in the agricultural sector but also seems to be part of a wider context, the discussion of which is far from over, on the nationalisation of the cap, so the most appropriate decision is indeed to reject the commission's proposal and thus oblige it to submit a new proposal.
in writing. the undersigned voted against amendment no 27 to the maaten report on bathing water quality because epidemiological studies have shown that there are differences between the two types of water: coastal and inland waters. in particular, according to these studies, the fecal contamination hazards for children (who are the group at greatest risk) are caused by a variety of bacteria, so it makes perfect sense to maintain the distinction between coastal and inland waters, as was proposed by the council. the undersigned also voted against amendments nos 5, 7, 8, 12 and 32 because they consider the existence of the 'sufficient' category for bathing water classification to be a positive factor. this classification would allow a gradual evolution of a bathing water body which, in compliance with the directive, would be in a conditional situation awaiting its evolution to the good and excellent classifications.
in writing. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to the proposal for a directive on the management of bathing water quality are generally positive, although we disagree with the abolition of the distinction between coastal and inland waters, insofar as in portugal it would mean that certain bathing areas, in particular river beaches, would be classified as unsuitable, despite having the conditions for their use without public health problems, since epidemiological studies have shown that there are in fact differences between these two types of water. so here, as in other matters, it is essential to follow the recommendations of the world health organization. as regards sufficient classification, this would only be acceptable if it was understood as the minimum quality and to be improved within a specified short time, which was not the case. the advance of the date for classification also raises problems, taking into account the water framework directive itself. as regards information for the population and possible emergency plans for areas where flooding is common, i think this is a positive step and we have therefore supported these proposals.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on the environment adopted on 21 april 34 amendments to the council's common position on bathing water quality management. as regards amendment no 27, which seeks to remove the distinction between 'coastal waters' and 'inland waters' in annex i, i must express my total disagreement. portugal has advocated a clear distinction between these waters, since epidemiological studies have shown differences in quality indicators and levels of bacteriological activity in one and other media. it is concluded that if the bacterial indicators are different and act differently, then the two types of water deserve different criteria with regard to their epidemiological assessment. since the recommendations of the world health organisation and the scientific studies supporting them have so far been to differentiate between 'coastal and inland waters', i see no reason to take decisions to the contrary, especially since they would mean that in portugal some 21% of bathing areas currently comply with the classification. i therefore consider that this proposal from the ep should not deserve my support.
in writing. this bathing water quality report is very important for my country. the portuguese coast stretches for many kilometres, where bathing in the sea is a popular recreational activity. the same is true of some inland bathing areas. the requirements for safe use of designated bathing areas are not only linked to access to, infrastructure and safety of beaches, but increasingly to the quality of the water found there. the quality of bathing water is thus not only a factor in health, but also an important indicator of environmental quality and tourist development. however, in this report i cannot agree with the proposal to remove the distinction between coastal and inland waters, as there are differences between these two types of waters, or to remove the 'sufficient' classification which gives member states more leeway in terms of managing bathing water compliance. acceptance of these two amendments would have serious implications for portugal, given that the costs involved would be disproportionate to the benefits obtained.
in writing. the increasingly demanding protection of the environment is undoubtedly both necessary and desirable. but since there is no need for such a policy to be incompatible with economic growth and development, it is necessary that the measures taken in this context should not, by appearing to be an uncompromising defence of the environment and public health, result in actual damage to the economy, in particular to the tourism sector which is so important for portugal. but in this report, and more specifically in some of the amendments proposed to it, that balance was not guaranteed, quite the contrary, and some of them did not even have the necessary scientific support. i therefore voted in favour of the report, but i voted against the amendments which, in my view, were prejudicial to the reasonable and justified national interests, in particular by providing for the non-inclusion of the sufficient category in the assessment of water quality and by failing to make the necessary and justified distinction between coastal and inland waters.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate crossborder mergers of companies with limited liability, although it is good that cooperative companies are not included. in general, the report is more concerned with companies than with the impact of mergers on the lives of workers and regions, although it does mention the need to include in the draft merger the impact on employment and the opinion of workers. but it does not consider such an opinion to be binding, nor does it provide for the rejection of the merger in the event of a negative position. the right of workers to participate is a matter of some contradictions, which means that even some positive aspects will hardly have practical application in the context in which they are embedded.
in writing. as cinema is an activity of an eminently cultural character and as culture is fundamental to human development, it is important that it be promoted and supported by defining concrete measures, including financial ones. it is essential that the so-called film industry is not considered to be within the exclusive scope of economic activity, since competitiveness distorts and may compromise the cultural and educational purpose of cinema. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to promote european film heritage 'by promoting policies of innovation, research and technological development in the field of preservation and restoration of film works', but with a cultural and educational purpose, rejecting competitiveness as the main factor. the creation of the 'mandatory legal deposit of the original' is another positive measure for the preservation of the collective memory and identity of peoples. these measures must be seen in the context of cooperation between member states, with respect for the cultural diversity which characterizes the various regions, countries and peoples of europe. the obsession with competitiveness subverts creativity and the artistic nature by the pressures of the market and the demand imposed by the capitalist logic of profit. it is therefore extremely important to define a policy and concrete measures to support the audiovisual sector, which reduce its dependence on private support and the inherent counterparts.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, on her important and timely report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the strengthening of port security, which i support, particularly as regards the establishment of a common community level of security in all community ports, but member states should be allowed to set different levels of security depending on the degree of risk in ports and to define the perimeter of each port subject to this directive and its adjacent areas. it is also essential to study the costs involved in the measures now proposed and who should pay those costs so that the solution found is equitable and fair to all parties.
in writing. democratic states have only one way to deal with terrorism: by applying justice. free societies have only one way to deal with those who make terror and private "justice" their weapon: to refuse it uncompromisingly. and anyone who aspires to represent a people politically must adhere to these rules. there can be no exceptions. beyond the personal and family drama that the murder of robert mccartney represents, it is also a paradigmatic example of the need for us to follow these principles unreservedly. without it being the duty of the european parliament to interfere in national judicial proceedings, the affirmation of these values is sufficiently important for the resolution adopted here to deserve my vote.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the council's strategy for the governmental experts' seminar on climate change (b6-0234/2005), and the oral question to the commission on the commission's strategy for the governmental experts' seminar on climate change (b6-0235/2005).
i would like to conclude by informing you that i have received motion for a resolution b6-0278/2005. the debate is closed. the vote will take place next thursday.
the next item is the council and commission statements on small arms in view of the forthcoming united nations conference in july 2005.
on behalf of the pse group. i believe that parliament should vote in favour of mr smaghi's appointment as a member of the executive board of the european central bank in accordance with the draft recommendation tabled by mrs berès. i personally cannot fail to point out the support and defense that the candidate has made timely of the constitutional treaty. this appointment should, however, be used to address, once again, some issues that have proved to be fundamental to the european central bank's approach to the economic situation in the european union and, in particular, to its contribution to a rapid and sound recovery. mr smaghi's appointment follows the european council's decision to make significant changes to the rules of operation of the stability and growth pact and to improve its procedures. it is well known that the european central bank was initially opposed to any change in the regulation, even threatening to raise interest rates. it is true that the institution subsequently accepted the changes introduced by the council, but it has always done so in a minimalist and conservative way. it is true that the stability and growth pact includes a preventive and a corrective pillar, but it is also true that the application of this political, economic and fiscal instrument must be done globally. it is unacceptable that the so-called relevant factors and exceptional circumstances, now identified and formalised by the european council, should be reduced to minor adaptations of the existing regulations. the text of the document adopted by the european council is clear and unambiguous and indeed incorporates substantial changes to the model currently in force. to ignore this fact or simply to reduce it to formal and cosmetic changes is completely wrong. despite all the efforts of the european central bank and its unmistakable success in controlling and moderating prices, the european union economy is far from showing clear signs of recovery and, above all, it is unable to solve the main problem of unemployment. the imf has recently even urged the european central bank to cut interest rates again. this desire is reflected in the new framework for the monitoring, surveillance and correction of fiscal imbalances approved by the council. the problem is not general budgetary deregulation but the economic and social recovery of the european union, for which the ecb has a huge responsibility. the ecb's executive board cannot ignore this inevitability and the newly appointed member must take it as his own political agenda.
in writing. my vote in favour of this report is justified by the fact that, firstly, the existing rules are fully respected, which ensure the necessary and appropriate participation of the member states in this process. and secondly, because the european parliament has also given a favourable appraisal of the successful application.
in writing. the common position on the proposal for a directive which the european commission put forward in 2002 was adopted today. however, a long way has been traveled, which has allowed the inclusion of several aspects that were not in the initial proposal. in the current version, many situations are included: salaried and liberal professions, temporary provision of services and the so-called regulated professions (doctors, nurses, architects, etc.), although with different approaches. there is also a set of amendments which aim to define the role of professional associations in relation to the recognition of qualifications, the creation of a single committee responsible for recognition, although it advocates that the representatives of the professions be represented in the new body, and also suggests that an individual professional certificate be created containing information on the professional development of the worker.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, since it proposes to improve the functioning of producer organisations by introducing a crisis management system and by promoting fruit and vegetables and their local varieties, taking into account that their consumption contributes effectively to public health. as regards producer organizations, i would stress the rapporteur's proposal on the need to encourage the creation of producer organizations in areas with a low level of associativeness, such as portugal. i would also stress the importance attached to ensuring the legal certainty of producer organisations and to simplifying the control procedures by establishing uniform criteria for the implementation of these controls, carried out by the various national and community bodies on operational programmes. on crisis management, 'the introduction of an effective market crisis management system to prevent the vulnerability of the sector to sharp price falls' is another aspect that should be mentioned as positive. as regards its practical application and the so-called 'safe-box', it should be made up exclusively of community funds, since this would be the fairest way of resolving the situation.
in writing. the agricultural question is admittedly of great importance for portugal, and our country must seek to defend an interest in these matters which is more than a specific interest of a professional class, it is itself a national interest. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i consider that the european parliament's proposal is contrary to the legitimate interests of producer organizations and because i support a suitable model for the aid scheme for processed products.
in writing. it was positive that the european parliament plenary did not accept a significant part of the proposals contained in the european commission's position on a new directive on working time, since it is one of the most dangerous marks of the attacks on workers' rights, calling into question the gains of a struggle of more than 100 years, affecting millions of workers and their families. we welcome the fact that the abolition of opt-outs has been adopted three years after the adoption of a new directive, to which we have contributed. but we think it is a bad thing that it accepts a classification of idle time and does not respect the case law established by the court of justice. the possibility of further deregulation of employment and greater difficulty in reconciling work and private life, in protecting the health and safety of workers, is open. the possibility of an annualisation of working hours is also discussed. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the fact that there was a clear contradiction between the majority vote in the parliamentary committee responsible for employment and the parliamentary committee responsible for industry is in itself symptomatic of the imbalance that could be found in the version put to the vote and in many of the proposed amendments. i am confident that the model will be a model that is first and foremost a faithful guardian of the principle of subsidiarity, leaving member states sufficient room for manoeuvre to adapt the rules on working time to the realities of their economies. it is a matter of defending respect for the adaptation to the real economy and to the specific needs of each country and each circumstance, knowing that the essential is guaranteed, since this is part, particularly in the portuguese case, of the guiding principles of national legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. far from being naive, this miserable falsification of history seeks to achieve very concrete objectives. the soviet union's decisive and fundamental contribution and the glorious struggle of its people to the destruction of the brutal machine of destruction which was the nazi-fascist armies and regimes must be erased. as well as its decisive role in containing imperialist aggression in the post-war to silence and slander the leading and heroic role of the communists in the anti-fascist struggle. to make us forget the nazi horror, its millions of dead in concentration camps, the millions of men, women, children murdered, the systematic destruction of entire countries. to whitewash the responsibilities of big german capital in hitler's rise. the complicity of the great capitalist powers, which nourished until the end the hope that the nazi war machine would destroy, and only, the soviet union. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process for a long time, and it is not the council that is responsible for this. they will not succeed!
since the author is not present, question 5 is inadmissible. question no 6 by mr gay mitchell (h-0299/2005) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. subject: implementation of aid pledges by member states a joint report by oxfam, actionaid and the european debt and development coalition has recently been published, assessing the development performance of the member states of the european union. at the un general assembly in 1970, the world's rich countries decided that they would seek to achieve the 0.7% gni target for foreign aid by 1980 at the latest. twenty-five years on, only five countries have achieved this, four of them eu member states. many other countries have broken promises made regarding poverty eradication. ireland, for example, abandoned its plans to reach the 0.7% target in 2007. as the luxembourg presidency has declared that the fight against poverty will be the main objective of its programme, we would like to know whether the presidency intends to use its influence to obtain from the member states the renewal of their pledges of aid and how it intends to ensure the achievement of the eu's objectives in the field of development aid.
question no 7 by mr david martin (h-0302/2005) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia in question time of 23 february 2005, the author of this question asked the council to remind the israelis that mr mordechai vanunu was illegally taken from europe, that is, literally kidnapped, to be tried in israel. the crimes he was accused of took place 20 years ago and it is ridiculous to expect that mr. mordechai vanunu still holds secrets that could harm israel. at that time the author of this question had also asked the council to encourage the israeli government to stop persecuting mr mordechai vanunu and to allow him to leave israel and live in the european union if he so wished. what action does the council intend to take, since all indications are that the israeli government is continuing to pursue mr mordechai vanunu?
question no 8 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0306/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: violation of the fundamental rights of greeks in georgia the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not involved in the criminal proceedings. greek families were murdered and others were driven from their villages, as the organizations of the greek diaspora denounce. at the same time, they face problems with their real estate. according to figures for the last seven years, some 7 000 'attackers' have confiscated greek homes and property, refusing to return them to their rightful owners. what is the council of the european union's view of these developments? what measures does the commission intend to take to protect the fundamental rights of greeks in georgia? will the presidency and mr solana make arrangements with tbilisi on this matter? is mr solana prepared, in cooperation with the osce, the council of europe and the un commission on human rights, to present a report on the situation of the rights of greeks in georgia?
question no 9 by mr claude moraes (h-0309/2005) subject: decade of roma inclusion 2005-2015 on 2 february 2005, in sofia, eight heads of state or government launched the 'decade of roma inclusion 2005-2015' and committed themselves to making efforts to end discrimination and to eliminate the unacceptable gaps between roma and the rest of society. how does the council intend to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this initiative? is the council prepared to provide regular information on the progress made in integrating roma into european society?
question no 10 by mr esko seppänen (h-0311/2005) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. subject: nuclear energy package the commission has put forward new proposals for directives on the safety of nuclear power stations and the final disposal of nuclear waste. during the current council presidency, no significant progress has been made in this area at council level. what is the position of the presidency on the lack of progress on this matter and when is progress expected?
question no 11 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0312/2005) subject: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos subject: postponement of the date of entry into force of the new turkish penal code turkish prime minister tayyip erdogan recently announced that the government has decided to postpone the date of entry into force of the country's new revised penal code, which is normally scheduled for this month. given that the revision and entry into force of the penal code was a basic condition imposed by the community institutions for turkey's convergence with the community acquis, how does the council view this delay? has the turkish government officially informed you of the reasons for this delay and the final date of entry into force of the new penal code, and if so, what is the turkish government's response? does the commission consider that its non-application would have consequences for the start of negotiations with this candidate country scheduled for 3 october 2005?
question no 12 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0317/2005) subject: the death penalty for the murder of a police officer in view of the possible death sentence against saddam hussein and in view of the eu's categorical position in favour of the abolition or non-execution of the death penalty and the right to a fair trial, as well as the statement by the president of iraq that signing the execution is contrary to his human rights convictions, which he is a supporter of, and to his principles in favour of the abolition of the death penalty, what steps does the council intend to take to make clear, once and for all, the eu's opposition to the death penalty?
question no 13 by mrs doris pack (h-0319/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: ensuring participation in elections and equal opportunities for parties representing the hungarian minority in romania the conditions for the participation of ethnic minority parties in electoral acts in romania are defined by law: at least 15% of the members of the parties concerned must be members of the ethnic minority, and the party must collect more than 300 signatures in each of the fifteen regions of romania. at its congress of 16 july 2004, the council of europe noted that these requirements "have not been applied to any of the existing parties". the venice commission of the council of europe found on 6 december 2004 that 'the conditions laid down for national ethnic minorities to stand as candidates in elections are prohibitive' and that it is therefore impossible to fulfil them (commission opinion no 300/2004). the european commission has noted in its report on romania that the registration of ethnic minority parties for electoral purposes is considerably hampered by administrative obstacles. what further information does the council have on this situation in romania? what steps did you take to resolve it? what action does it intend to take, in view of romania's imminent accession to the eu, to change this situation and to enable romania's national ethnic minorities to have a right to representation corresponding to european standards?
question no 14 by diana wallis (h-0322/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: ratification of the hague convention of 19 october 1996 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of minors the member states have agreed to two key international instruments relating to the protection of children and their families: council regulation (ec) no 1347/2000 of 30 june 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility in relation to children of the spouses; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. as complementary instruments, they were intended to enter into force at about the same time. member states should have deposited their instruments of ratification before 1 january 2005. can the council confirm that the process is being blocked by the united kingdom and spain with regard to the application of the convention to gibraltar? can the presidency describe the measures it intends to take to solve this problem, in order to provide a legal framework for child abduction cases between eu member states and third countries?
question no 15 by mr ryszard czarnecki (h-0323/2005) subject: budget for the period 2004-2007 if the luxembourg presidency fails to reach a compromise on the budget for the period 2004-07, is there not a risk that the matter will drag on until early 2006? is there any chance that the british presidency will refuse to adopt a final position on this matter?
question no 16 by lidia joanna geringer (h-0327/2005) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. subject: european grouping of crossborder cooperation (egtc) in the light of the current debate on the principles underlying the operation, financing and monitoring of a completely new instrument, the european grouping of crossborder cooperation (egcc), what is the council's initial position and what parameters are being followed in the discussions on the possible creation of this instrument and the prospects for its future development?
since the author is not present, question no 17 is therefore withdrawn. question no 18 by mr johan van hecke (h-0332/2005) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. subject: support for the electoral process in burundi in a statement, the european union welcomed the successful outcome of the referendum on a new constitution in burundi, but at the same time encouraged burundi to complete as soon as possible the remaining stages of the electoral process as defined in the peace agreements. what concrete initiatives have the council and the member states taken to support the electoral process in burundi and to help ensure lasting stability in that country also after the elections?
question no 19 by mr hans-peter martin (h-0334/2005) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens. subject: new statute for members of the european parliament the statute of members is again under debate. it is not only a question of adopting a proper general system of remuneration but also of making the system more transparent and of eliminating numerous privileges which members of the european parliament have enjoyed up to now, such as exaggerated daily allowances, fixed secretarial allowances without proof of actual expenditure, generous reimbursement of sickness costs from the european parliament's budget and free life insurance. how does the council intend to influence the european parliament as regards the transparency of the system and the limitation of these privileges? is the council prepared to make public its working document on the statute for members, submitted on 26 april 2005, in its full version and in the form submitted for negotiation? how does the council intend to prevent new privileges from being surreptitiously introduced - for example, by decisions of the quaestors of the european parliament? what possibilities does the council have to demand and/or impose a thrifty and efficient use of budgetary appropriations by the european parliament?
question no 20 by mr paulo casaca (h-0340/2005) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: use of a generic standard for a specific purpose one of the two sugar refining companies in portugal - supported by the european commission - brought an injunction against the azores beet grower seeking to ban shipments of sugar from the azores, arguing that the company's traditional shipments should be calculated on the average of three years when there were no such shipments, 1989, 1990 and 1991. the portuguese courts referred a question for a preliminary ruling to the european court of justice, which clarified the matter (c-0282/00), leading the portuguese courts to reject the case supported by the european commission, a decision which is currently under appeal. the european commission, which has not accepted the decision, has tried by all means to reverse it. one of the means used was to modify the conditions laid down in regulation (eec) no 1600/1992 oj l 173, 27.6.1992, p. 1, on the basis of which the court has so far failed to give a ruling to the european commission, which had sought to amend the regulation so that traditional shipments from the azores would be calculated on the basis of the average of the years 1989, 1990 and 1991, which is tantamount to prohibiting them. the amendment proposed by the european commission (com (2004) 0687 final) to article 4 of the regulation is thus a modification of a generic rule whose sole purpose is to eliminate competition from azorean beet growers. does the council not consider that it is illegitimate to amend general rules for specific purposes? does the council not consider that the use of the power of initiative to win in legislation what it lost before the luxembourg court of justice is an abuse of power?
mr president, allow me first of all, since i am speaking for the first time since you took office, to congratulate you and to wish you the very best of luck. let me also thank the presidency of the council for the care it has taken in working on this subject, which, although it concerns a minority and peripheral part of the european union, is no less important. and i would like to ask you, mr president, whether we can count on the luxembourg presidency to continue to give this matter the same attention and the same care that it has given so far, and therefore whether this commitment will be maintained in full, from now until the final decision.
question no 21 is withdrawn. as the authors are not present, questions 22 and 23 are now closed. question no 24 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0347/2005) subject: the palestinian people the council believes that assisting the palestinian authority at the crucial moment of taking responsibility for maintaining public order and improving its civilian police and law enforcement capacity is, and will continue to be, a priority for the eu. in this context, the eu recently established the eu coordination office for palestinian police assistance in ramallah. can the president-in-office say what exactly the responsibilities of this 'office' will be and what financial means will be made available to it to enable it to carry out its duties properly?
the time allotted for questions has now been used up and questions nos 25 to 28 will be answered in writing. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. question time is closed.
for the record, mr. deputy. i would like to make the same announcement as i have already made: i consider question time closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.20 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
the challenge of constitutionalising europe lies in the area of its external action, which is perhaps the most complex, controversial and fascinating. through its external action, europe is teaching the world the lessons of a new style of governance based on the active sharing of democratic values and the affirmation of human rights. that is why the european external action service is not just a means of administrative and financial rationalisation, of organizational will. the service shows that the european union's foreign policy is now marked by a project of common life, a model of consensus on the great horizon of humanity that europe is drawing for itself and for its relations with the world. all this requires concerted action across the board by the institutions and the democratic underpinning of foreign policy decisions. the emerging constitution shows that the common foreign policy is now decided on a basis which is not exclusively intergovernmental, that it is transversal to the european institutions which process the political decision and that the intervention of the commission itself immediately sets in motion a link with parliament. a coherent europe with a clearly defined strategic vision along the lines of multilateralism and a new system of international law requires an adaptation of the relationship between its institutions, the synergy of its actors and permanent internal consensus. this is the spirit of the new european external action service. the service thus raises the following questions: what is its organisational structure? how will you manage your immense multidisciplinarity? how will you establish your chains of authority? how will you prevent a possible field of tension between the council and the commission, if not even tendencies towards feudalism in relations between the council and the commission? and finally, how will you define the links of responsibility, including here the links of democratic responsibility?
we do not want to join the boat of those who, in seeking to evade their deep responsibility for the objectives and the conduct of the wto negotiations by promoting and trying to impose a blind and violent liberalisation of world trade with very serious economic and social consequences, are now trying to shake the waters off the coat by trying to blame china for all the evils. it is a discourse which also seeks to mystify the fact that the real beneficiaries of the current liberalization of world trade are the large economic and financial groups. they are the ones who off-load their production in search of maximum profit, they are the ones who dominate distribution and get the lion's share. the textile and clothing sector is an example of this alarming reality. it is not china that is responsible for the way the textile and clothing negotiations in the wto have been conducted, but the european commission and the council. china is not responsible for an overvalued euro which accentuates the difficulties and competitiveness of textiles and clothing produced in the countries of the european union. it is not china, but the european commission and the council, which have not yet triggered the safeguard clause despite the serious situation facing the textile and clothing sector in the european union, particularly in countries such as portugal, and which are instead protecting this urgent decision. so i ask: when will the safeguard clauses be triggered? when will the mandate of the european commission for the wto negotiations be reviewed? what is required is the suspension and reversal of the current policies of trade liberalization. what is needed is the creation of a system of fair and equitable trade, geared to the real development of the potentialities of each country in a sustained way, without relations of domination and dependence, and thus to the urgent improvement of the living conditions of the peoples of the world and the guarantee of their rights.
i believe that mr chiesa has put his finger on the problem. and the finger on the wound is the huge divorce that exists between the european institutions, their leaders and the citizens. this is solved first and foremost by good policies and not just, or primarily, by good techniques. and where i strongly share the commissioner's view is that when we talk about communication we are talking about two and when we talk about two we are not talking about one who gives the information and another who receives it. this is a pre-modern conception which continues to prevail in the opinions of european leaders. i would like to make three comments on the report, which makes a great effort to reach consensus or convergence. the first concerns the boundaries between culture and communication. all culture is communication but the reverse is not true. and that is why we are against the european union, against the institutions being able to finance fiction, films, cultural creations to spread and promote european ideals. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the second objection is about the boundaries between information and propaganda. we may want to involve the institutions in the referendum campaigns, but the essential thing is - because it is a question of communication - to guarantee the contradictory, the right to contradict, and that is not in the proposal we have to discuss. and thirdly, the problem of intelligence in the use of public means and money. the idea of a parliamentary channel is bureaucratic, old-fashioned, time-stopped. this is a terrible idea. on the contrary, the bet on euronews, the bet on information with the safeguarding of editorial independence, that is the way, it is the way in which people can see news of what they do not like.
in writing. as is well known, the aarhus convention entered into force on 30 october 2001 and 19 of the 35 parties to this convention are member states of the european union, and therefore they have special responsibilities in setting up the mechanisms necessary for its implementation. the second meeting of the parties, to be held in almaty, kazakhstan, from 25 to 27 may 2005, should therefore ensure that the legislative work leading to the implementation of the it is equally important to ensure specific provisions, such as rights already provided for in the convention, to ensure effective public participation in the decision-making process on gmos and guidelines to ensure public participation in international fora, to serve as a tool for the parties to enhance public participation at regional and global level also in other conventions and treaties dealing with environmental issues.
in writing. collective and individual awareness of the importance of environmental issues is a decisive factor in the development of public policies and practices, both public and private, conducive to environmental conservation. this matter, so often wrongly presented as a concern of left-wing political party organizations alone, is by its nature a matter on which conservative parties and politicians should have, and do have, a special concern. it is also true that the public debate is the best opponent of environmental demagogy - which also exists - and of policies which ignore our obligation to the present, but above all to future generations.
in writing. the resolution adopted today by the european parliament welcomes the decision to hold a seminar of government experts to discuss the european union's role in combating climate change, supporting sustainable energy r & d and limiting emissions from road, air and sea transport, which we support, while underlining the need for effective measures and political will for the commission and the member states to be part of this effort, by presenting proposals for a future strategy based on the kyoto protocol, technological innovation and development of environmental technologies. as stated in the resolution, we also regret that several countries have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol, including the united states of america, which is responsible for a large proportion of emissions. finally, it should be noted that there is a need for greater financial support for adaptation measures in developing and least developed countries, although it is true that developing countries do not have to repeat the same polluting practices of industrialized countries. but all countries have the right to development, and so they need to be guaranteed the support they need for proper development.
in writing. the kyoto protocol is rightly considered to be an instrument of the utmost importance in the field of climate change. it is important, however, that the proclamation of principles and the public assumption of obligations of various kinds, which have been repeatedly reaffirmed, be followed by concrete action. in environmental matters, as in most other matters, good intentions are seldom followed by consequences. and calling upon them is not the same as following them. i therefore believe that the serious and distant study of political - and geopolitical - struggle is a path that should be encouraged.
in writing. unlike the european countries that were once under soviet rule, the countries of central asia have not, for the most part, had a career that deserves our applause or our satisfaction. quite the opposite. there are good reasons for us to express our concerns actively throughout the region and to commit our political forces to the creation of a broad area of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights. the european union's experience, both with the countries that have already joined the union and with our neighbouring peoples, has shown that in this area, and in this geographical area, the european union has a potential for effectiveness which it must use with courage and determination.
in writing. the resolution adopted today by a majority of meps is not about the 60th anniversary of the victory over nazi-fascism. their real objective is the condemnation of the soviet union. it's an attempt to hide his decisive role in the defeat of nazi-fascism in 1945. of your action in defending peace and containing the aggression of imperialism. of its role in the enormous improvements in the living conditions of millions of working people. the european union is a great example of solidarity and of its contribution to the achievement of the independence and sovereignty of dozens of peoples, their liberation from the colonial yoke in the new period and the correlation of forces that has taken place since the end of the second world war. the ep resolution is an unacceptable and shameful attempt to revise history. among many other serious aspects, it is at the very least untrue to say, as the resolution does, that 'european integration' contributed to the overthrow of the fascist dictatorship in portugal. when portugal was a full member of nato from the first. when the fascist regime had the complicity of many governments of countries participating in the so-called 'european integration'. when they supported the portuguese fascist regime's effort in the colonial war.
in writing. we all share the general aversion to the horror of world war ii, and we feel the importance of remembering what humanity, peoples and each individual was capable of. we therefore sincerely share the feeling that this occasion should serve above all to say: never again. this is the basis on which the eu was created. but there are the other memories. for the countries of eastern europe, particularly the baltic states, the celebration of the end of the war is not exactly the celebration of liberation, since the liberators were the soviet military who only left in 1989 onwards. for this reason, what may seem to be a misplaced idea - to confuse the soviet empire with the end of the war - is not so from the perspective of this part of europe, because one thing is inseparable from the other. how can anyone be asked to celebrate liberation if liberation is not followed by occupation? we can't. we have to. if we want peace, we need the truth. let us celebrate the end of world war ii, but let us not think that the horrors ended there. the memory of others must also be part of our own memory.
in writing. this report on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for 2006 comes in the context of consolidating the latest enlargement and preparing for the forthcoming accession of romania and bulgaria. the fact that it proposes an increasingly efficient and rational use of budgetary appropriations, combined with the objective of making the next budget more complete and clearer in the face of the need to bring parliament closer to the citizens and to improve the quality and effectiveness of its work, led me to approve the text.
in writing. the development of international trade is one of the best weapons against inequalities between countries. the opportunity - in accordance with fair competition rules, with serious checks, with respect for the principles of defence of human rights, environmental protection and sustainable development - to produce, to place its production on the world market and to be able to acquire other products is the surest way to the progress of peoples, to peace, to human development. it is therefore up to the governments to act with a sense of responsibility, with determination and with awareness of the importance of what is at stake here.
in writing. a good information and communication policy should improve the citizen's perception of the eu; it raises awareness of the european dimension of citizenship, showing people the concrete benefits of belonging to the union in their daily lives. i regret that the eu's information and communication strategy has fallen far short of its objectives. according to the eurobarometer, the level of public knowledge about basic eu issues is very low and turnout in the elections to the ep was at its lowest level ever in the last elections. i therefore support the idea of creating a decentralized information system, which would allow information itself to reach the citizen. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's budget and its implementation, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. in parallel, member states and national parliaments should be involved in conjunction with the european institutions, in order to exploit the full potential of the common strategy of the institutions and to ensure maximum impact at local and regional level, in the general interest of the union and all its citizens.
in writing. the european union's information and communication strategy must always be objective and respect pluralism, cultural diversity and human rights. the practice we see, particularly now with regard to the draft european constitution, is that there is no objectivity or pluralism. there is a major propaganda campaign which does not respect pluralism and the different opinions of members nor does it take account of the different public opinions. this report is a clear example of the manipulation of the european union's information and communication strategy. the european parliament has a duty to support the ratification of the european constitution, and it is not the council's responsibility to support the ratification of the european constitution. it also ignores contrary opinions. unfortunately, however, in the vote in plenary, several proposals which would have improved the report were rejected, so we had no choice but to vote against it.
in writing. political institutions can only have one communication strategy: truth and transparency. to which must be added a readiness to listen as much as to be heard. if it is true that the vast majority of europe's citizens feel close to the essence of the spirit of the european union, it is no less true that there is a distance between what they experience on a daily basis and even the content of some of its fundamental texts. it is therefore our task, in full transparency and truth, in full respect for pluralism, to make the union visible and to pay attention to the feelings of the citizens. all communication is bi-unicode, and that is one of its most democratic features. we understand you, yes.
the next item is the commission statement on the drought in spain.
first of all, i would like to apologize to the spanish member of my confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left, willy meyer, who, because of the problems of air transport to which the president has already referred, cannot take part in this debate. in any case, the drought problem in spain is also a problem in portugal. the whole of the iberian peninsula is suffering from the consequences of the drought which has been going on for many months and which, together with frost, is causing a serious crisis, whether in the crops of vegetables, flowers, herbs and fruit trees, or in the great losses it is causing to livestock and to some sectors of the processing industry. but in many municipalities, particularly in portugal, there is a real threat of water shortages to supply the population, and i would therefore like to stress here that water is an irreplaceable public good, a universal human right which must be protected and which must not under any circumstances be treated as a commodity. but in addition to our solidarity with spanish and portuguese farmers and livestock producers, we also express our solidarity with the municipalities and the people who are affected by this tragedy, which may have serious consequences in the near future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not worsened by the introduction of new measures. we are also concerned about the risk of forest fires, which are already starting to occur in many regions, and we therefore insist on the need for effective and urgent measures. an effective protection system at community level is needed to protect european farmers from the risks and crises resulting from the situation in portugal and spain. it must be borne in mind that the reform of the cap requires farmers to take responsibility for managing the risks that were previously absorbed by market and price support policies. as a result of trade liberalisation, farming now remains much more vulnerable to specific risks and crises beyond the farmer's control. it is not enough to say that the study of the pilot project agreed in the 2005 budgetary procedure for the establishment of a community insurance scheme will soon begin. we need to move quickly towards the creation of a compensation mechanism such as public agricultural insurance financed by community funds to compensate for the effects of natural disasters such as drought and forest fires and to provide a minimum income for farmers. we also insist on greater openness and flexibility so that the solidarity fund can be used to repair damage to the productive capacity of large regions, to help the most serious cases in portugal and spain in order to guarantee the living conditions and economic stability of many regions and areas. we also insist on a financial support line that minimises the increase in costs and the decrease in agricultural production and farmers' incomes, and on the temporary exemption of full-time farmers with low incomes from social security contributions without loss of entitlement, and of course the extension of campaign credits for two years without interest. we also consider it important to consider the possibility of establishing a european drought observatory and measures to promote more rational use of water.
mr president, as i speak to this parliament for the first time about your presidency, allow me to warmly congratulate you on your election and convey to you the protests not only of all our esteem and consideration but also of great friendship and old camaraderie. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 14 april mr paulo casaca expressed his solidarity with the people most affected by the drought, particularly the farmers of the south and the ría de portugal, as well as those of seville, huelva, badajoz, cáceres and elsewhere. drought unfortunately knows no boundaries. we are facing a real natural disaster of such a magnitude that it requires the utmost attention from the european institutions - and, of course, from the european parliament. this time, and in continuation of last month's debate, we want to reiterate our full solidarity with spain and spanish farmers. compensation should be given to farmers, forestry and livestock producers for the significant losses they have proven to have suffered and will continue to suffer. the effects of drought on agricultural, forestry and livestock workers who have lost (or are seriously threatened with) their jobs need to be reduced. in spain and portugal, exceptional measures are urgently needed to promote employment in the affected areas. in my country, the agriculture, food and forestry union estimates that 50 000 jobs have already been lost or are in danger of disappearing, a situation which is likely to be aggravated by the depletion of reservoirs of buffers and groundwater and the lack of operational conditions for irrigation canals. in both portugal and spain, the montado is the species most at risk of disappearing. thousands of cork oaks and maple trees, on the other hand, are dying in the antechamber of death. there are important regions in the iberian peninsula on the verge of desertification. we're not making the situation any more dramatic. the description given is based only on objective criteria and realistic parameters. exceptional situations merit and require exceptional measures. the european institutions have not been blind to this disaster. the commission, for example, has been working to help with its resolution - which we can see and applaud. but it is essential that we do more and do better at european level, by strengthening the support we have provided in the meantime and by drawing up and implementing a multifaceted action programme, because the situation is becoming more and more complicated. the europe we are building must be something big. hence this intervention - which is a statement at one time and an appeal at another. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am addressing each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner. i am speaking to your consciences as free men and women, just and fraternal. we're counting on you.
i have received four motions for resolutions to wind up the debate pursuant to rule 108 (5). see the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the current debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on togo. see minutes
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the current debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the violation of human rights and democracy in the republic of mari el of the russian federation. see minutes
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately after the current debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in burma/myanmar. see minutes
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
we now move to the vote. (for the results of the vote and other details, see minutes)
i call the sitting of the european parliament to order. (the sitting was suspended at 4.55 p.m.)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, the chairman of my group cannot be here today, but he has made his position clear in a letter published this morning. if the purpose of the motion is to clarify publicly the existence of a possible conflict of interest, its purpose is being fulfilled at this very moment. several members of my group have signed up to this initiative convinced that it would be a means of obtaining the necessary public explanations of the allegations that were circulating and because of that they were not expelled from our group, mr poettering. but if the intention was, or is, a censure which has the president of the commission's holiday as its object or pretext, we dissociate ourselves from that. the opposition of the left in this parliament is political in nature. let us not lose sight of what really separates us from the commission: its liberal policies. another would be if the owner of the yacht, mr latsis, had financial matters pending a decision by the european institutions. in this case, the imprudent leave would send a signal to the commission services. it so happens that in this field, nothing, nothing at all, has been proved so far. consequently, the censure is without merit. this is the view of most of the members of the group. mr president, i was one of those who signed and i was one of those who withdrew my signature when i was given the information i considered satisfactory. i do not want to pay attention to dr barroso's holiday for one minute, but i want to be transparent - every minute. it is a collective urgency in the face of the obvious divorce between citizenship and the blindness of the current european leaders. but the defense of transparency requires facts and not insinuations or processes of intent. in defence of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, not everything is worthwhile, especially not the suspicion of combat or in the name of combating suspicion. i'm not going to take this populist plea. our censorship is the censorship of those who want facts, but focus on policies that strangle jobs, rights and the will for peace in this world.
our position on the european commission and its president, mr barroso, is perfectly clear. we voted against because we disagree with your profoundly neoliberal project, as we have stressed on several occasions. however, the grounds for this motion of censure did not take into account any opposition to these policies. the motion of censure is based on personal relationships and facts which predate the inauguration of the present commission, against which we voted. we want more transparency in the way the commission operates. we want other policies to address the serious problems of unemployment and social exclusion. but we don't make policy based on personal attacks. we therefore do not support the motion of censure, but remain open to supporting motions of censure on the wrong policies of the european commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the debate now turns to the report by mrs kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the promotion and protection of fundamental rights [2005/2007 (ini) ] (a6-0144/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
we now move on to the one-minute speeches on topical and urgent subjects.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr nassauer on the excellent report he has presented to us, which has won the support of the ppe. it is necessary to protect the union, its member states and its citizens by strengthening the defenses against money laundering. the perpetrators of this crime must not be able to take advantage of the free movement of capital and the free provision of financial services. we must also cover the financing of terrorism. we know that we are dealing with two types of crime with different natures. in the case of money laundering, we are dealing with the concealment of illicitly obtained capital, and this activity is at the heart of organised crime. to combat it effectively is to weaken transnational organised crime networks drastically. terrorist financing may also involve the use of legally acquired assets to finance terrorism, i.e. it does not presuppose that a crime has been committed but that financing itself constitutes the crime. the aim is also to extend the scope of the directive to other categories of professional persons, whilst always taking into account the need to respect proportionality in the adoption of measures. i welcome the fact that the compromise reached in the second directive has been maintained, preserving the lawyer-client relationship of trust. an effective defence can only take place where there is a guarantee of the principle of confidentiality. finally, i would like to stress three essential points. first, coordination and cooperation between financial intelligence units, without forgetting to provide them with the necessary means to be able to carry out these functions; secondly, it is essential that member states which have not yet transposed the second anti-money laundering directive do so as soon as possible; thirdly and lastly, it is urgent to evaluate the current anti-money laundering legislation in terms of its relevance and its practical impact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to talk about employment. jobs cannot be created without enterprises, and enterprises cannot be created without entrepreneurial agents who are enterprising and risk-taking. the ability to take initiative depends on a number of factors. first of all, macroeconomic stability, good governance practices and, above all, the promotion of a widespread entrepreneurial culture, which presupposes trust in policies and institutions. but trust is not something you decree. in the age of the knowledge society, only those who participate in the large decision-making networks can acquire high levels of trust. the large groups and companies will certainly do so, but small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for more than 90% of all european enterprises and employ two thirds of the workforce, are at a clear disadvantage and will only be able to do so if they are able to scale up. this will depend on how they are encouraged to join universities, centres of excellence, in a logic of active cooperation. it is the regions, by asserting themselves as policy-making centres, that can play a very important role in this respect: it is precisely the promotion of this type of cooperation and, through it, the generalization of confidence that is the most decisive ingredient for increasing investment and creating jobs. that is why i say that the creation of more jobs in europe will depend very much on what happens in the regions. those who do not want to understand that the future of europe is at the hands of the regions and small and mediumsized enterprises are precisely the same people who advocate reducing the resources for cohesion policies. i am also referring to the signatories of the famous letter which talks about a maximum of 1% of the proceeds as a contribution by the member states to the financial perspective. let there be no doubt: if we go along with this, there will be no more economic growth or more jobs in europe.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative in this area, and that it has also taken the initiative in the other areas. unfortunately, the vague nature of the broad guidelines for the economic and employment policies of the member states and the community and the restrictive proposals in the social agenda are far from providing the response needed to restart economic growth, create the more than 22 million new jobs with rights that are needed to achieve the targets set in the lisbon strategy and promote the social inclusion of the approximately 70 million people living in poverty. when a social agenda truly committed to social inclusion was needed, what the council did at the spring summit was the opposite - the commission has restricted the objectives of social inclusion and the fight against poverty to children, claiming that the situation of children cannot be improved without changing the situation of families. it has also forgotten about concrete measures to promote and assess progress in the area of equality between men and women, whether in access to employment with rights or in wages, where discrimination persists and in some cases is aggravated. political guidelines insist on pointing in directions that are already known to be wrong. the answer should not be more of the same. it is now clear, and in some ways the reports under discussion acknowledge it, that the results of the path we have followed are negative. but the necessary checks are not made and the same policies and measures are insisted on, always subordinated to the obsession with price stability and the adaptability and flexibility of the labour market. the liberalization of the internal and external markets is being pursued, with particular emphasis on services, the privatization of social security and, above all, pensions. the obsession with the deficit and the stability pact continues, when the problem we face is economic, not financial. the aim, of course, is to facilitate wage moderation and to ensure that productivity gains are transferred to the big economic and financial groups, avoiding the real scandal we already have in the distribution of income with profits reaching their highest level in the last twenty-five years. that is why, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a serious change of policy and direction is needed at the level of the european union.
in writing. the good performance of the economy requires as precise a knowledge as is possible today - with respect for privacy, of course - of the various economic indicators. the report meets some of these needs exactly, and i therefore approve it.
in writing. the multiannual programme (mp) for enterprise and entrepreneurship, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), was originally planned to run from 1 january 2001 to 31 december 2005. this programme is the key element of community policy to promote entrepreneurship and support innovation in european smes, so i voted in favour of this report which supports the extension of the pp until 31 december 2006, and which underlines the need to increase its annual allocation to € 91 million. these measures will allow for better coordination between the pp and its successor - the 'framework programme for innovation and competitiveness' (fpic) - but also with the 7th research framework programme. it is important to maintain and extend support to entrepreneurs and smes in europe because they are the backbone of the european economy and their continued growth is a condition for achieving the lisbon objectives. the financial instruments of the existing programme, which largely cover the needs of the new member states, should also be maintained. reducing funds will prevent the integration of these countries into the european economy.
in writing. in view of the results of the programme in question and in view of the general agreement on the proposed increase in the budget, my vote is in favour and is accompanied by the sincere expectation that this programme will have a positive impact in terms of increasing competitiveness and business innovation.
in writing. under the financial perspectives (2007-2013), the eu has established a 'framework programme for innovation and competitiveness' (fpic) to support business, entrepreneurship and, in particular, innovation in smes. to make a transition between the current programmes ending in 2005 and this new framework programme, the ep increased its support to €91 million for 2006. this initiative deserved my support, since smes are the key element of the european economy and the unavoidable lever to achieve the lisbon objectives. a more competitive, economically growing and job-creating eu inevitably depends on the entrepreneurial skills of smes. to realise its full potential, the eu must take initiatives to make entrepreneurship more attractive. this package of measures includes a culture of entrepreneurship, the alleviation of fear of taking risks and the creation of a simple and fast-track administrative framework. although the evaluations of sme support programmes show that the intended objectives are being achieved, it is appropriate to strengthen the coordination between the future ipa and the structural funds in a context of regional development, achieved through partnerships between local, regional and cross-border actors.
in writing. in view of the court of justice's view that the community institutions must intervene in this matter, and given the need for such regulation and agreement, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. i am in favour of the basic question raised here, which is of significant importance for an effective fisheries policy, and i must also give my consent to this necessary change in the timetable in question, so that the programme can have the desired effect. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. we are voting in favour of this report, so that the community fleets fishing in these waters, including the five longliners, can be guaranteed fishing opportunities until 30 june 2007. the last protocol expired on 30 june 2003 and had been extended for a further year. the agreement will have a financial counterpart of around €1 million, guaranteeing fishing rights of 9 000 tonnes per year, 1300 gt per month for demersal species and activity to 48 french, spanish and portuguese vessels. the commission has presented a cost-benefit assessment of this agreement which concluded that the protocol has brought benefits to the community tuna fleets fishing in these waters in the form of value added of eur 1,7 million. the estimated benefits for côte d'ivoire amount to some eur 2.5 million. however, and while the concern for the sustainability of ivorian fisheries and the protection of local artisanal fisheries is to be commended, this protocol, apart from tuna-fishing vessels, has had a very low degree of use, which also shows the state of the community long-distance fleets, particularly in portugal. this situation should be assessed, as should the allocation of fishing opportunities.
in writing. as i have said on many occasions, the fisheries issue is of particular importance to portugal, and therefore the defence of national interests is at the forefront of my assessment of this agreement. however, since the fishing opportunities for five surface longliners have been secured, i believe that this interest is adequately protected and therefore i am voting in favour.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the objective of simplifying the financing structure by improving efficiency in the use of funds and their transparency. i share your doubts about the effective simplification of financial management in the future. the creation of two financial management systems with different forms of payment and authorisation and the drawing up of complementary documents by member states implies increased administrative effort and red tape, which could be counterproductive for farmers and all actors in the rural development process. but the fundamental question in relation to the financing of the cap is the so-called 'modulation/degressiveness', its criteria and the amounts to be transferred to the two funds (eagf and eafrd). the current debate in parliament and the council on the financial perspective for 2007-13 does not foresee any change in these aspects. it's the opposite. the figures already advanced reflect the pressure exerted by the large countries on their financial contribution and put aside an effective cohesion policy and a cap that defends food sovereignty, small and mediumsized farming and the rural world. portugal and small and mediumsized farmers in portugal will be the main victims of this policy.
in writing. the question of the financing of the common agricultural policy will have to be discussed in due course and with clear objectives. everything that concerns the future of agriculture, the rural world, but also the environment and the preservation of a necessary balance between the exploitation of resources, their economic viability and sustainability deserves serious consideration and discussion. it is a matter of principle that the commission should be consulted on the proposal. this is a simplification policy, which can only result in greater efficiency and greater control over the performance of the programmes and funds concerned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. i have had the opportunity on several occasions to express my views in a broad and explicit way on the european institutional model which i believe is the most appropriate. this is not the time or the place to do so, although i cannot help mentioning what i believe is a preliminary point. however, whatever the prevailing view, there is one point on which we must agree: the community institutions must work together, because this is in the interests of good european performance, which i wholeheartedly support. i therefore consider that, within the parameters i have mentioned above, this report deserves my support and my vote in favour.
in writing. although money laundering is not confined to the financing of terrorism, the fact is that this 'crime of criminals' is of particular importance in the financing of terrorist activities. europe must remember that terrorism is a real and permanent threat which we must face today. and this is as true for the 'new terrorism' which has acquired its own dimension and relevance after 9/11, as it is for combating the forms of terrorism which have been around for a longer time and which are still active in europe today, such as eta. this fight therefore requires constant and determined attention and the consequent adaptation of legislation, but this must be done with full respect for the defence of freedoms, whether individual or collective, and this is as true for freedom of expression as for economic freedoms. on the other hand, it is necessary to know what are fair, reasonable and effective requirements to be made, particularly to economic operators, and what are those which go beyond the realm of feasibility, effectiveness or simply reasonableness. in this balance lies the guarantee of defending freedom for security, without exchanging one for the other.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou on the important report he has produced on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending council decision 2001/51/ec establishing a community action programme on a community strategy for equality between men and women and decision 848/2004/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishing a community action programme to promote organisations working at european level in the field of equality between men and women, which i support, particularly as regards the need to extend these two programmes until 2006. although future changes are foreseen in these two programmes, it is essential at this stage that europe's work in this area is continuous and extended until the adoption of the financial perspective 2007-2013, especially when the european union brings together 25 countries.
in writing. given the sense of the action programmes and the need to ensure that the timetable for their financing is adapted to the adoption of the financial perspective for 2007-13, i believe that my vote should be in line with the report and support it.
in writing. for reasons of general interest, but also specifically as a member and vice-chairman of the committee on transport, road safety matters are of particular concern to me. i therefore vote in favour, given the reasonableness and effectiveness of the proposal in this report.
in writing. we regret that in voting on this report an important article concerning restrictions on the use of nutrition and health claims has been removed. in the article concerned, the commission should set out the specific nutritional profiles that foods must meet in order to make nutrition and health claims and which would be set out with reference to the amounts of fat, saturated fatty acids, sugars and salt/sodium present in the nutrients. we also regret that the situations in which health claims are permitted have been relaxed. in the original proposal, these health claims would have to be authorised, i.e. proven, and in the amendment now approved, the competent authorities will only be informed about the use of health claims and only subject to examination in case of doubt. this process is justified as being less costly, but the truth is that it is the consumers who are the ones who are harmed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed and protected, and this right should not be subordinated to the economic and financial interests of those who give priority to reducing the costs of litigation, even to the detriment of consumers.
in writing. the economic model we advocate requires freedom and initiative, but it also requires control by the state, which must ensure that these fundamental rules are respected so that there are objective conditions for consumers to make informed choices. the proposal in question is balanced in that direction, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. as the debate on this report has shown, particularly in committee, the european union, as a result of the most recent enlargement, now has a different conscience and a different memory, which has a significant impact on its relations with russia. beyond the eu's usual preoccupation with democratisation, respect for freedoms, the demand for correct action at international level, the defence of an economic model in which free initiative is not to be confused with either the absolute freedom of a few or the freedom of changing boundaries as political power changes, the eu is now discovering the concerns of most of its younger members. without hesitation, these concerns must be an integral and full part of our relationship with russia. moreover, the latest news can hardly be considered encouraging. after initial concern, followed by a justifiably positive reaction, the international community now finds justified reasons to be concerned about the situation in russia and its aspirations, particularly in international affairs. that said, it is worth noting that a good relationship with this huge neighbor of ours is of the utmost importance.
in writing. the defence and promotion of fundamental rights are essential conditions for the establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice. the multiplication of agencies, which constitutes duplication of functions and increased burdens, should be avoided. the new agency is only justified if it can fill the gap in the mechanisms for collecting data and monitoring trends and processes in the member states, which has not worked and which makes it difficult to understand the true scale of the challenges and to assess the effectiveness of community legislation and policies in these areas. it should also absorb existing structures (the european observatory on racism and xenophobia, whose functioning left much to be desired). the agency will only be responsible for issuing opinions and recommendations and should not interfere with the work of the institutions which are responsible for decision-making. undesirable conflicts with parallel bodies such as the high commissioner for human rights of the council of europe should be avoided. i also welcome the creation by president barroso of a group of commissioners on fundamental rights, anti-discrimination and equal treatment, who will have to establish a comprehensive and coherent strategy in terms of the protection of human rights.
in writing. we voted against the report because it continues to obsess over the deficit and the stability pact, when the problem we are facing is economic, not financial. we forget that the problem we have is one of demand, which requires increased purchasing power and therefore higher wages. we forget that we have a real economic problem and that we therefore need more support for the manufacturing sector, and that we need to use safeguard clauses for the textile sector as soon as possible to prevent thousands of firms from closing down and unemployment from worsening to unbearable levels. it is also necessary to make a serious assessment as soon as possible of the consequences of economic and monetary union and the appreciation of the euro in the loss of competitiveness of the european economy and its impact on economic and social cohesion. we must have the courage to suspend the stability pact and replace it with a pact for growth and employment, giving priority to productive investment and social progress. a serious change of policy and direction is needed at european union level.
in writing. as we said in the plenary, the restrictive proposals in the social agenda are far from providing the answer needed to create the more than 22 million new jobs with the rights needed to achieve the targets set in the lisbon strategy and to promote the social inclusion of the approximately 70 million people living in poverty. when a social agenda truly committed to social inclusion was needed, what the council did at the spring summit was the opposite: the commission has restricted the objectives of social inclusion and the fight against poverty to children, claiming that the situation of children cannot be improved without changing the situation of families. it has also forgotten about concrete measures to promote and assess progress in the area of equality between men and women, whether in access to employment with rights, or in wages, where discrimination is maintained and, in some cases, aggravated. the commission's proposal for a directive on the organisation of working time and the creation of an internal market in services is a step in the right direction.
in writing. the review of the lisbon strategy is based on the triangle of competitiveness, growth and employment. to relaunch its social component, the ec has presented a new social agenda (2006-2010) which, in my view, has fallen short of legitimate expectations. i am not criticizing the underlying philosophy of creating a 'european labour market', nor the list of proposed measures such as the conclusion of transnational collective labour agreements, the promotion of women's employment, the fight against poverty, etc. my criticism is different. i believe that this instrument, which is vague and not binding, is not the most appropriate and proportionate response to the urgent need for modernisation arising from the imperatives of growth and competitiveness. for example, the social agenda gives little importance to local economies and smes as key factors in economic development and employment, which account for over 90% of european business activity. so it feels like a catalogue of good political intentions. in other words, while i agree with the diagnosis, i'm afraid the treatment recommended is not the most appropriate. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the comments made in it on this initiative by the european commission.
madam president, commissioner, under the present market conditions and taking into account the production paradigm in force in most countries of the union, a sustainable european energy policy is only possible if the efficiency of the final use of this resource is significantly increased. the commission proposal underlying this report, although only one part of a wider legislative edifice, is therefore a key element in achieving that objective. the question is all the more relevant now that it is recognised that the level of energy efficiency differs greatly from one member state to another, creating distortions and, above all, waste that is truly unjustifiable in the context of a future internal market. the model proposed by the commission, although based on well-defined rules, is sufficiently flexible and operational to encourage the 25 member states to save energy. the overall and specific approach taken by mrs roth is in turn correct and constructive. by proposing more ambitious targets for energy saving, structured in three distinct levels, it is an active intervention by the european parliament which sends a strong message to the council that the union's energy policy objectives must be met. the setting of even more ambitious targets for the public sector and the creation of an energy efficiency fund to which all service providers have access, from which household consumers and smes can benefit, are also relevant and valuable factors, although the complexity of their implementation must be acknowledged. in the current state of economic development and the actual situation of the internal energy market, it is essential to create new incentives for the promotion of energy efficiency. however, the overall energy policy does not stop at efficiency, since it is increasingly dependent on diversification of sources, increasingly from new energy sources and the secure interconnection of transeuropean networks in a philosophy, as already stated here, similar to the current transport networks. the need for a gradual move towards harmonisation of tariffs and contracts, which would give a real dimension to european energy policy, is also essential.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr herbert bösch, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud (2004/2198 (ini)) (a6-0151/2005).
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, first of all i should like to add my voice to the congratulations which have already been addressed to you, very rightly. secondly, i am sorry that the director of olaf is not here, he certainly could not be here for reasons of force majeure. i would like to stress, however, the need for olaf to pay the utmost attention to this report and to show parliament and, in particular, our rapporteur on olaf the respect which is due to a democratic monitoring body such as ours. it is a respect which i also hope olaf will have for its monitoring committee, since olaf's indispensable independence cannot in any case be confused with self-sufficiency, as that would be very bad for the functioning of our institutions. secondly, i would like to say to the commissioner what we have said in paragraph 28 of our report, namely that we are indeed waiting for a report by 31 october 2005 in which the commission will explain to us in detail what the situation is in the famous case of adulterated butter, a case in which - although it has been clear for six years to all those responsible for all matters that conclusions must be drawn - none of the material authors and their accomplices have been prosecuted or harassed in any of their interests. i would therefore like the commissioner to stress his willingness to comply with our request by 31 october.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs frederika brepoels, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a community infrastructure for spatial information (inspire) (com (2004) 0516 c6-0099/2004 2004/0175 cod)) (a6-0108/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr skinner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on reinsurance and amending council directives 73/239/eec and 92/49/eec and directives 98/78/ec and 2002/83/ec (com (2004) 0273 - c6-0038/2004 - 2004/0097 (cod)) (a6-0146/2005).
in the successive reforms of the common agricultural policy, with its serious consequences for family farming and small and mediumsized farmers, of which the withdrawal of production aids is one of the last and most serious steps, the commission has repeatedly overlooked the importance of agriculture for the fixing of populations and economic and social cohesion in rural areas, failing to give special attention and support to the so-called cohesion countries where rural desertification is increasingly and more seriously felt. the budget proposal that the european commission is presenting for the new rural development fund under the financial perspectives 2007-2013 is extremely insufficient, for example, in view of the inclusion of considerable amounts for the financing of the natura 2000 network from this fund. the increase in funding for axis 1 and for agroforestry, including farms and their representative organisations, is particularly important and decisive for portuguese agriculture and farmers. community funding of the natura 2000 network should be based on the corresponding and necessary financial reinforcement under the financial perspectives 2007 to 2013, either in the rural development fund and the structural funds, which should be the main sources of funding, or in the life+ programme. the most appropriate solution would be to create a specific community fund in the 2007-13 financial perspective for natura 2000, promoting the conservation of biodiversity as we have advocated with the proposals we have put forward in the committee on agriculture. we criticise the commission's intention to open up a path for entities outside agriculture and the rural world to receive aid that should be given priority to agriculture, production and the rural world, that is to say, to agroforestry and agriculture in general, through such a wide and diverse group of entities that can apply for funds under rural development. we stress once again that a genuine modelling and limitation of the maximum aid per farmer in the common agricultural policy could not only contribute to a more equitable redistribution of aid between member states, farmers and production, but also to increase market support for small and mediumsized farmers and the amounts available for rural development, in particular for compensatory payments and support for organic farming.
mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but the tragic events of recent years have demonstrated its destructive power. combating it is one of the greatest challenges we face in the 21st century. i welcome the efforts and work of all the rapporteurs on this dossier. it does not matter how it arises, where it occurs, who its authors are, the justifications presented or the causes they advocate. all terrorist acts, methods and practices are without political or moral justification and must be unequivocally condemned and combated. the tragic events of 11 march in madrid have called into question the effectiveness of the union's instruments and policies and demonstrated the urgency of a new approach that is more dynamic, systematic and effective. the position of european union coordinator for the fight against terrorism, mr de vries, has thus been created, and i welcome his presence in this house. i support a clear strategy to combat terrorism which balances collective security with individual freedoms and which involves, firstly, strengthening the prevention, preparedness and response capacity of the european union and, secondly, the financing of terrorism. there has been a significant increase in funding sources. it is important to improve the alert system for trade in goods and services in order to ensure better control of all suspicious movements, but without compromising normal market dynamics. at the same time, cooperation between public and private institutions, particularly in the banking sector, should be strengthened. thirdly, enhanced information capacity, including the essential improvement of information exchange with europol, prevention and consequence management and protection of critical infrastructure in the fight against terrorism, which implies the development of higher security standards and solidarity with any member state that is the victim of a terrorist attack. finally, a very important point - solidarity with the victims of terrorism. when innocent people are murdered, kidnapped, tortured, extorted, blackmailed or threatened, not only those who lose their lives or suffer the most are the victims, but so are all their family and friends and the whole community.
mr president, commissioner, this debate shows that parliament is aware of the seriousness and gravity of the terrorist threat and is willing to act firmly against it. so i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. there is a threat to our society, our way of life, our freedom, which we can only respond to with full cooperation, both at european and international level, and with a coherent policy, more than a mere list of initiatives, as has been very well said here by both the commissioner and our colleague mr oreja. if, on the other hand, you want to believe that our strategy should be to pretend that we are not targets, you are wrong, and you are doubly wrong. firstly, because this attitude contributes to the essence of terrorism, because it is born of fear and prevents us from acting. secondly, because it is the only way of protecting us in practice against a very real and violent threat. but if we are aware of the danger and are willing to act, we also realize that there is much more to be done. it is the case of bioterrorism, as has just been mentioned, which today represents a danger we must know how to deal with and for which we are clearly still not sufficiently prepared. it is the use of low-cost, small-sized, easily accessible weapons with enormous destructive capabilities, and weapons whose mere simulation of use is enough to cause widespread panic. it is therefore necessary for europe, through the member states but also through specific community programmes, to respond to the various needs. the maintenance of stocks of medicines and vaccines, the improvement of detection systems, early and rapid warning, the reinforcement of civil protection mechanisms, including national emergency plans, among others, are all necessary, in addition to a lot of information. the commission has also expressed these concerns. but it is important to remember that the european union has made commitments and that we must now move from projects to action and within the framework of our international obligations, in particular those assumed by the united states in the field of combating bioterrorism and which are being developed on the other side of the atlantic through the bioshield project. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that terrorism, and particularly bioterrorism, knows no borders, and so its combat cannot know any borders either.
in writing. the laperrouze report and the commission proposal set out the priorities for the transeuropean energy networks in the light of the creation of a more open and competitive internal energy market, which respects the principles of competition. as we know, it is the implementation of the so-called lisbon strategy that has justified privatisation in this sector, and we have always disagreed with that. even the concern for consumer protection and the use of renewable energy is always subordinated to the central objective of the market, that is to say the interests of the economic groups and multinationals operating in this sector, with which we disagree. of course, we are talking about universal service criteria and public service obligations, but only to emphasize that the construction and maintenance of infrastructure in the energy sector, defined by the commission, taking into account the positions and projects presented by the member states, should ensure the effective functioning of the internal energy market, in compliance with the procedures for consulting the populations concerned, taking into account the strategic criteria and the above-mentioned criteria and obligations, added by the european parliament. however, the financial envelope is still very low.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague anne laperrouze on the important and timely report produced on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decisions no 96/391/ec and no 1229/2003/ec, which i support, particularly as regards the establishment of common rules in the european gas and electricity market where the environment cannot be forgotten and the security of electricity supply in each of the member states, regions and territories must be guaranteed. the incorporation of the energy networks of the new member states into the transeuropean networks will undoubtedly facilitate the process of cohesion in the enlarged eu. however, the construction of new infrastructure or its maintenance or reinforcement will have to take account of the environmental impact and comply with the procedures for prior information and consultation of the public provided for in community and national legislation. the eu's dependence on a single source of energy supply may have repercussions on its foreign policy and limit its role as a world-class partner. the development of alternative energy sources is therefore essential for the technological progress of european industry.
in writing. it is clear that it is a good thing to achieve greater efficiency in the final use of energy and to try to achieve the objective of 20% of renewable energy in the overall consumption of the european union. we therefore support measures which effectively pursue this objective and have therefore voted in favour of most of the rapporteur's proposals. it is interesting to note that the european parliament considers that the public sector can play an exemplary role in this area, and has therefore set more ambitious objectives for this sector. but we cannot agree that, in the field of energy efficiency, the market should be liberalized, particularly for domestic consumption, from july 2007, as the rapporteur has done in some of the proposals against which we voted.
in writing. if we want to achieve - and we must want to achieve - real energy savings which counteract the constant trend of increasing energy consumption in both developing and developed countries, one of our main tasks will be to alert citizens to the consequences of excessive energy consumption. awareness of the problems is the first means of adhering to the necessary solutions. in this connection, the proposals here, particularly those concerning ways of ensuring that consumers - public or private - are aware of the energy efficiency of the goods to be purchased, are of the greatest value.
in writing. the exchange of information between member states is not only of the greatest importance for building a general and experienced feeling of trust among all, but it also has, of course, a usefulness of its own. in the case in question, the information which can be obtained in this way is not only itself cross-border, but also of cross-border utility. for this reason, the aim of facilitating their sharing is, of course, worthy of my agreement.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, considering that it improves the commission's proposal, including some of the proposals we have put forward. it is true that in some areas more could have been done, particularly with regard to the amounts generated by modulation and its implementation in support measures for the agriculture and forestry sectors and in the increase in support for farmers who receive less aid. but it would be good if the executive committee at least took this resolution into account. there are still doubts about the inclusion of nature protection measures and the natura 2000 network in the rural development support programme, especially because it is not clear that this inclusion does not mean a reduction in the funds allocated to rural development. however, the current debate on the financial perspective does not suggest any different scenario and all signs point to a reduction in the budget, leading to a policy that does not promote economic and social cohesion, employment and social inclusion. we are well aware of our opposition to co-financing and the liberalisation of the agricultural market, since this is contrary to the defence of rural development which is aimed at people, supports family farming and small and mediumsized farmers, and is based on respect for the diversity which is characteristic of the different member states of the european union.
in writing. congratulates mrs agnes schierhuber on the timely report produced on the proposal for a council regulation on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the commission also proposed that the aid intensity proposed for the outermost regions should be at least the same as that currently in force.
in writing. one of the most important aspects of the cap - its financing - is still to be decided, and it is therefore independent of the outcome of the discussion on the financial perspective that i vote in favour of this report. the european policy in this field must be more than just agricultural, it must include a set of measures and axes which form a coherent policy for this universe. that is my understanding and that is also, in essence, the understanding that this report gives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall then have the opportunity to assess the amounts needed at that time and place. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in writing. despite the technical nature of this report, the issue has a strong political connotation in the 'open market economy and competition' which is to be imposed without restrictions. in approaching this issue, the underlying political issues are always emerging, even leading to the mixing of issues that are, or may be, politically different. the protection of the communities' financial interests by means of checks on management which is not wasteful and fraudulent is a different matter from the fight against fraud (although there is a common area for fraud within the institutions of the communities), which is mainly expressed in various forms of tax evasion, the parallel and clandestine economy and trafficking of various kinds. among many other points worth noting in the report is the fact that the states are being held responsible while at the same time the states are being removed from functions which were also theirs by the permanent disqualification and dismissal of public servants and the use of private entities to carry out some of these tasks. in connection with this important political aspect, i would like to stress the issue of the 'transfer of tasks from the european public service to private companies', as referred to in the report.
in writing. instead of attacking the root causes of terrorism, such as the serious deterioration of the world situation, the spiral of violence fuelled by the militarization of international relations, the attacks on the sovereignty of states and peoples - state terrorism - the unbridled capitalist exploitation, the inhuman deepening of social inequalities and the existence of millions of human beings living in desperate situations. the pretext of the so-called 'war on terror' is to create and strengthen a whole network and information base, as well as security organizations, centralised at the level of the european union - seeking to go beyond sovereign cooperation between states by imposing 'supranational' structures - promoting repressive measures that are an integral part of broader strategies that make the permanent use of force, the arms race and economic and financial domination, the way to perpetuate an unjust world order. hence the unacceptable agreements between the eu and the us on the exchange of personal data, the unacceptable criminalisation of organisations which fight for the respect of the fundamental rights of a people - such as the right to sovereignty and independence - or the unacceptable aggression against sovereign countries. that is why i am voting against our group.
in writing. terrorism is indeed the dictatorship of this century, and the fight against it will be constant. over the last few years there has been a consciousness-raising, forced by reality, which shows that this debate has not faded, nor has it essentially lost its way. we are aware that there is a threat to our way of life, to our society, to our freedom. we are also aware that our greatest virtues - freedom, respect for the individual, solidarity and others - can be shown to be weaknesses in the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism. for this reason, the constant balance between what we have to sacrifice and the results indispensable to the preservation of our model of life is fundamental. in this context, the debate on this and the other reports in this plenary session, taking account of the progress made, the general effort, the difficulties encountered, the need for amendments and corrections, as well as pointing out the shortcomings still existing, should be treated in a uniform way, considering that a clear sign of conscience has been given here. awareness of the risk, awareness of the need to act, but also awareness of what is not required or desirable, even in the name of the fight against terrorism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that the proposal we are voting on tomorrow proposes an internal reallocation of eur 200 million from the transeuropean energy networks to the social agenda, which is essential for social inclusion, growth and competitiveness. the committee on employment and social affairs has also welcomed the request to strengthen the financial framework for progress in order to enable the lisbon strategy and the social agenda to be implemented effectively. let us hope now - and i repeat this request - that this desire for increased appropriations will not be blown out of proportion in the negotiations in the council. i would point out, however, with some concern, that social dialogue and the free movement of workers, and in particular eures, are not mentioned in this report. i think it is essential that the financial margin available for line 1a should be able to fill this gap. however, as the person responsible for this issue in the committee on employment and social affairs and as europe has a crucial role to play in social justice and cohesion, i would like to say that i am very concerned about the way the luxembourg presidency is dealing with the issue of statistical regions and therefore i would like to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. other mr president, the opinion of the committee on women's rights regrets that the funds provided for in the so-called 'prodi package' for social issues, equality and employment do not represent any real increase compared to the last financial framework, despite the worsening inequalities in the enlarged european union, with more than 20 million unemployed, poverty and social exclusion reaching some 70 million people. it stresses the need to ensure adequate funding for the progress programme, greater attention to women's participation in the different programmes and a clear differentiation of actions related to equality and anti-discrimination policies, specifically aimed at promoting women's rights and participation, with the creation of a programme of the 'equality between women and men 2013' type and new funding for the future european gender institute. it is also recalled that equality between men and women must be transversal to all community policies, with particular attention to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done here, but i am mainly concerned that we have had access to a negotiating box which was given to us by the luxembourg presidency, where there is a further eur 100 000 million cut compared to what the european parliament has proposed. it's a dramatic cut that could completely challenge the very foundation of protecting natural resources at sea. we must not forget that in this area of the sea we now have to finance external fisheries agreements and we have to take account of the ospar convention signed by the european union which designates new protected areas in the ocean. we have new proposals for fisheries control which use satellite mechanisms which are quite expensive. we have proposals for the conversion of a large part of the fisheries sector, we have enlargement and, in view of all this, a proposal which our committee on fisheries considered to be a modest proposal, far below what we think the real needs are, and we see that there is a great danger that this proposal will be cut by a council decision. this is something that concerns us very much and i would like to ask the council very loudly to take account of our real needs and i would like to urge the president of the european commission to remain in the position he has held up to now, of fierce defence of his commission proposal, because that is what i think defends europe, defends our interests and also defends the sea... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the böge report, which will define the european parliament's position on the community financial framework for 2007-13, makes the european commission's proposal worse, which is already deeply inadequate in terms of financial resources and is out of step with the real needs of an enlarged european union. both proposals are in essence a concession to the strategy of the rich countries, particularly germany, which aims to reduce the community budget as much as possible, in contrast to what has happened in previous enlargements. these proposals do not protect the interests of cohesion countries such as portugal, which, despite being identified as the one most negatively affected by enlargement, may now be penalized again in the financial framework for 2007-13. we have put forward concrete proposals because we must strengthen economic and social cohesion. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is designed to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the enlargement of the european union. proposals which, against our wishes, were rejected by the european parliament's temporary committee on the financial perspective.
mr president, the european union assumes an identity based on a sense of belonging, a sense of belonging that results from a will that has in common a desire to share. cohesion policy has been the strongest instrument and has been very successful in helping to strengthen this sense of belonging. that is why the weakening of cohesion policy is not only contributing to the emergence of financial difficulties or the postponement of projects in some regions of europe. it's much worse. if we go down this road, the feeling of belonging to the union will be eroded, it will be weaker and it may be damaged irreversibly. the reduction of financial resources in cohesion policy is a very serious blow to the european spirit. the selfishness wins and solidarity loses, and without solidarity there can be no sense of belonging, which is the essence of the european entity. as regards cohesion policy, it seems to make perfect sense to discuss an element which, being recent, should help to shape a cohesion policy adapted to a new reality. this new element has to do with the need to assess the impact of the invasion of asian products in the various parts of europe. in the last few months, when the financial perspective is discussed, what is being done is to try to find out, almost line by line, who is and who is not a net taxpayer. it's an unpleasant negotiation for everyone involved. i think the main reason for this is that the current eu funding model has been exhausted. so my last words to the european council: it seems to me clear that the reform of the financing of the european union is becoming unavoidable. not wanting to accept this evidence is political myopia. i would like to end by congratulating mr böge on the excellent work he has presented to this house.
mr president, i think the big question that will be asked in the european council and that will be asked in this parliament is whether people have understood that we are in fact in a new cycle. a new cycle in which europe no longer responds to the concerns of its citizens as it did in the past, when peace and democracy were the main objectives. today we want our european, national and institutional leaders to be able to respond, not rhetorically, but objectively to some of the major challenges. the question of whether the european social model is compatible with globalisation has been raised in the face of the social and environmental dumping which prevails in other countries and which has led to relocation and unemployment in europe. it is important, it is essential that europe as such, and if possible with the united states, and already in the doha round, should enforce the rules of the international labour organisation. just as the lisbon agenda cannot continue to be bureaucratic, it must become friendly to entrepreneurship and friendly to small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is essential that the commission and, above all, parliament, take action once and for all to make subsidiarity a reality in all areas. finally, we must know what the limits of europe are, what the pace of enlargement is when we cannot achieve deepening. these are the great challenges of the european council!
in writing. the mask is off! after the victories of the no vote on the so-called "european constitution" in france and the netherlands, it became clear that for the political forces that have always led the eu (right-wing and "socialist") and for the interests they represent (the big economic and financial groups), referendums are only held so that the people can say "yes" to what these forces and interests can do. the confusion in the hosts is great. some want to continue the ratification process and finally force the recalcitrant parties to hold new referendums (until they say yes), others, with referendums ahead and anticipating more nos - and for that reason alone - want to know first how to overcome the french and dutch nos. in other words, nobody wants to be left with the hot potatoes until the magic formula is found to save the european constitution, whether it is re-written or not. and for that, you need time... in portugal, the ps, psd and cds-pp, out of step with events, are still insisting on the farce that a referendum on the so-called 'european constitution', which has already been twice rejected, will be held on the same day as the local elections, that is, without ensuring the conditions for an enlightening and participatory debate. there is only one answer to all this: we must bury the 'european constitution' once and for all!
in writing. the motion of censure cannot be supported by anyone but me. the european commission, and its president in particular, has been carrying out work of particular significance and importance in the context of the debate on the financial perspectives, and the attack thus directed at it, being devoid of any foundation from the ethical point of view, is intended only to try to weaken a community institution by those who have a vision that is sinful, not because it is against the current, but because it is only against, without any purposeful purpose. ethical requirements are compatible only with a responsible attitude, which is clearly not the case with this motion of censure.
in writing. whereas: (1) the political situation and the need to involve the various european actors in the construction of a stable financial framework, which ensures sustainable development and job creation; (2) the need for the european institutions to give a clear signal of commitment to finding solutions to the problems of citizens; (3) the effort needed to reach an agreement with which the majority of the 453 million europeans can identify, ensuring unity in diversity; 4. that cohesion policy represents the internal solidarity of the eu and that, despite existing limitations, this principle has been minimally respected; the portuguese socialist delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the böge report on the financial perspectives for 2007-13.
in writing. we say no to the european commission and parliament's proposals on the financial perspective for 2007-13, because they translate politically and financially the objectives enshrined in the so-called 'european constitution', such as the primacy of competition, the strengthening of 'europe fortress' or the militarisation of the eu. and because they are profoundly inadequate in financial terms to promote effective 'social and economic cohesion' by responding to the social, economic and environmental challenges of an enlarged eu. we say no because we reject any attempt to make it once again the economically more developed countries - that is, their large economic and financial groups - which derive the most political and economic advantages from the european union, to assert their interests at the expense of the interests of portugal and the portuguese people. we say no because what is needed is a firm break with the eu's neoliberal policies and, on the basis of cooperation between equal and sovereign states, to promote sustained economic development, employment and the fight against the persistently high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequalities. we therefore reject the böge report and endorse the alternative resolution of our group on the financial perspective for 2007-13, which includes proposals which defend the interests of portugal.
in writing. my abstention from voting on this report reflects my conviction that your proposals are halfway between what i stand for (the commission proposal) and the position which is furthest from the objectives i propose (the 1% of gdp option). because the proposal in this report departs from the position of the commission (both the current commission and the prodi commission) and amounts to an overall reduction in the amounts which is unjustifiable and which i do not consider admissible, my vote cannot be in favour. i am not voting against this report either because i find that its proposal is more favourable than the proposal put forward by the presidency of the council - as far as it is public - and in particular as regards the proposal of the six largest contributors to the community budget, who want to reduce the union budget to 1% of community gdp. my vote must therefore be understood as a vote in favour of continuing the negotiations in order to enable the financial perspective to ensure the eu's obligations in the field of cohesion and solidarity, but also the financing needs arising from enlargement and a wider range of competences, without this having a direct impact on the other budget lines, in particular the structural funds.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report because i agree with its objectives and i am confident that the solutions proposed will be effective. it is now generally accepted that the fight against money laundering - the crime of criminals - is one of the most effective ways of combating large-scale organised crime, whether terrorism or otherwise, which represents one of the most serious attacks on the democratic rule of law. in this respect, i agree with the objectives proposed in the diploma under consideration. on the other hand, the options resulting from interinstitutional cooperation seem to me to have led, in the main, to a solution which is at the same time reasonable, balanced and capable of being effective.
in writing. although i understand the concerns raised by this matter, particularly as it concerns a sensitive subject such as taxation, i am in favour of a more liberalizing solution in this particular area, which is contrary to the effective establishment of an internal market. this is all the more so when the activities in question are not, as is expressly stated, commercial but consumer activities.
in writing. we are about to embark on the second phase in the realisation of an area of freedom, security and justice. in responding to the concerns of citizens - more freedom and greater security - it is essential that we achieve a balance, not only legal but above all political and institutional. in particular, three key issues: - credibility - i am aware of the difficulties and delays in several areas, which shows that there is still a lot to be done to increase confidence in relations between the member states. i do not agree, however, that the best way forward is to develop initiatives outside the community framework such as schengen+ (between 7 member states), which undermine the development of mutual trust between all member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. parliament should be involved in a fair way in the drafting of legislation. - effectiveness - there must be a clear definition of objectives, priorities and responsibilities, avoiding duplication and dispersion of effort and energy. finally, the question of maintaining the current legislation pending ratification of the constitutional treaty is only exacerbating the existing democratic deficit. there are a number of aspects which were not taken into account, and which should have been, such as the democratic control of europol and eurojust.
in writing. the reality of a large, open, borderless area in which freedom of movement is the main feature requires correspondingly stronger cooperation and trust between the different member states, both at the level of the political authorities and at the level of the police and even judicial authorities. i do not think that everything proposed in the report in question is indispensable, necessary, useful or desirable. however, my agreement and my vote in favour is justified by the belief that the core aspect of the document is the conviction and the awareness that without cooperation, without trust, without a certain community dimension in certain areas of internal policies, it is not possible to achieve the objectives of the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular one of its most significant aspects, which is the prevention and combating of crime and terrorism.
in writing. a coherent and integrated approach to combating discrimination and xenophobia is needed and the exchange of experience and good practice should be used. equal treatment and respect for diversity are of interest to society as a whole. we have adopted directives to ensure that everyone has effective legal protection against any form of discrimination. but if we have created a strong legal framework to combat discrimination, the big problem we have left is to ensure effective and efficient enforcement. the protection of minorities is of the utmost importance, especially following the latest enlargement, which has brought a greater number of member states with a huge cultural and linguistic diversity. it is essential that community legislation and policies can support the efforts of these member states to find answers to the problems faced by minorities, in particular by promoting their inclusion and participation. it is inconceivable to accept the existence of any kind of discrimination, but we cannot force any member state to change its legislation in order to accept situations which conflict with its moral and cultural traditions. the principle of subsidiarity and the shared competence between the union and the member states in the field of human rights must be respected.
in writing. in the field of minority protection and anti-discrimination policies, the deficit of policies and protection is often countered by an excess of defence of solutions which clearly go beyond their stated objective to become models which should not be imposed on member states, and with which i personally often disagree. that is exactly what has happened in this report. there was indeed a set of amendments tabled by my group which, in my view, made the document in question a set of acceptable and defensible proposals. unfortunately, these proposals were not adopted, and i therefore voted against the report. i understand, and i repeat, that in these matters both excess and defect are fatal errors. confusing the right to be different with the imposition of equality of what is different is not the same and does not produce the same result.
i should like to begin by congratulating the authors of the report on their achievement of something that is rare: a document that can be very useful for the washington summit on 20 june. it also made two points. the first to point out that while during the cold war the theatre of strategic operations was europe and the perception of threats on both sides of the atlantic was identical, with the end of the cold war, german reunification, the soviet implosion and 9/11, these figures have changed. on the one hand, the strategic theatres of operations are different, but above all, what is different is the perception of the threat on both sides of the atlantic. if the threat perception is different, the strategies and operational modes of action will have to be different. while in europe we have developed a multilateral concept of 'soft power' through diplomacy, economic sanctions or even political sanctions, in the united states, after 11 september, we have developed above all 'hard power', that is, the thesis of unilateralism, of 'with others if possible, alone if necessary', and in this way the two concepts and the two perceptions of the threat on both sides of the atlantic have become significantly different. what we're trying to do at the moment is to get a convergence, that softpower is less soft, that hardpower is less hard. and above all, the perception of the threat and the ways of combating it must be consistent and complementary. this is the fundamental objective of any transatlantic summit. we can add a second objective to this, which has to do with trade, not only at bilateral level but above all with regard to their joint aggression in the field of globalisation and the world trade organisation. it is absolutely unacceptable that aspects of social dumping and environmental dumping, which threaten jobs in europe and are the symbol of unfair competition, can continue to exist freely in the world to our detriment. and unless the european union and the united states join forces in this direction, it will be very difficult to avoid them and the consequence will sooner or later be a protectionism that is also wild.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the irrationality of the criteria - a government deficit below 3% of gdp, a government debt below 60% or the subsequent objectives of zero deficit - had no economic justification and does not have any. we have always said that going down this road would have negative consequences for economic growth and employment, as life is showing. on the other hand, the possibility of fines and the conditionality of the cohesion fund to the stability pact, together with constraints on public investment and, by extension, the correct implementation of the structural funds, have further aggravated the recessionary economic situation of the countries with excessive deficits. this is one of the fundamental reasons for the issue that has become central in recent years, the so-called 'deterioration' of public accounts in the european union, to which the excessive appreciation of the euro has certainly also contributed. the current economic and social situation clearly demonstrates the reasonableness of our position, as happened in the past with the controversial statements by former president prodi and other members of his commission, who called the stability pact 'stupid' and the criteria 'medieval'. that is why we have this debate today. without this the stability pact would not have been reformed, despite much cosmetic in the past spring council. it is true that the council and the commission have now made numerous statements pointing to the need to restore rationality to the stability pact, to take account of all the relevant factors in the analysis of budgetary situations, and to stress that the zero deficit objective is not an absolute end in itself. but they insist on maintaining the stability pact as a fundamental instrument of their neoliberal political objectives of attacking the public sector and the social responsibilities of the state, of promoting price stability, wage moderation and privatisation, in particular social security. the council therefore reaffirms the objectives of the stability pact, its reference values, and prevents any expenditure from being excluded from the calculation of the deficit value. what the council has agreed is simply to give time, particularly to those who are not in compliance, such as germany or france. the margins of reinterpretation, based on the structural reforms of lisbon, the so-called 'lisboalisation' of the pact, are nothing more than the means to allow the most appropriate interpretations for the most powerful countries and not exactly to have an 'à la carte' pact. what was needed was the suspension of the stability pact and a radical break with the current economic guidelines, as was made clear by the 'no' vote in france and the netherlands to the european constitution. to create the macro-economic conditions, to relaunch economic recovery and employment growth, to respond positively to rising unemployment and high levels of poverty and inequality in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the citizens of europe are continuing to identify the ecsc and the single monetary policy as the real culprits behind the economic and social crisis in europe. at the same time, european politicians from almost every ideological quarter are reinforcing the discourse of political correctness, emphasising the advantages and wonders of restrictive fiscal policies and the exclusive concern with price moderation. this contradiction must be ended, and this is the real challenge facing the european institutions today. the european council and the commission have recently made an effort to overcome this dilemma. one of the results of this effort is the renewed pact and the regulations we are now discussing. the european parliament, for its part, does what it can within its powers. the rapporteur is to be commended for having identified some problems such as the weakness of the structure, the reliability of the statistics, the relevant factors, the deadline for correcting the deficit and the strengthening of budgetary surveillance. it remains to be seen, despite these efforts and the clear quality of the commissioner's work, whether these amendments will arrive in good time and sufficiently. pangloss said that everything was going well, but in 1755 the violent lisbon earthquake profoundly altered the political and economic relations of 18th-century europe. we have a duty to at least think about this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community patent is not infringed. we believe that it is not acceptable to create a community patent at any price, also by calling into question the interests of small and mediumsized countries, both in terms of the language regime and in terms of the role of national institutes and national patent agencies. this is, of course, in addition to the concerns we have about the possible impact of patents on fundamental areas such as life, natural heritage, software, medicines and others, which often serve only the interests of multinationals. but as regards the language regime mentioned here, we do not think it is right to provide for the use of only a few languages, contrary to the principle of non-discrimination between companies, creating a real directory of the main languages and setting precedents for the future by calling into question the use of all the official languages. we therefore believe that the best defence for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises in all countries is to maintain the principle of non-discrimination between countries and between enterprises, and also in the language regime to be used.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr freitas for this report, as well as for his interest, participation and input in the committee on fisheries. i would also like to thank the president and the members of the committee for its expeditious examination of this proposed regulation. this will enable the european community to pass a clear signal to the aidcp at its annual meeting beginning on 13 june 2005, that with the adoption by parliament of this proposal from the commission, the european community is well on the road to completing the necessary internal procedures to becoming a full member of this organisation. i am pleased to accept a number of amendments suggested by mr freitas, notably amendments 2, 3, 5 and 6. in particular, these amendments will increase the transparency and simplify the understanding of the content and reasoning behind the need for this council decision, which will enable the community to fulfil its international obligations to become a party to regional fisheries organisations where they exist and to defend community interests in the global fisheries. this will also enable the community to be at the forefront of these organisations and enhance the leading role that it has constantly played in the operation of regional fisheries organisations. i am not, however, in a position to accept the remaining proposed amendments, with the exception of amendment 4, which i can accept provided that the phrase ‘and its certification scheme’ is deleted. i will comment on the certification scheme later with respect to other amendments. i find difficulty in accepting the other amendments for the following reasons. this proposal relates to the approval of aidcp, whereas amendments 1, 9, and 11 focus heavily on a secondary issue of the aidcp, namely, the tuna tracking and verification system, which is already ec law. amendment 10 requires that future changes to the tuna tracking and verification system regulation follow a certain process, in contradiction to the appropriate comitology provisions within the regulation. this regulation is already in force and changes can be made to it as and when necessary. amendments 7, 8, and 12 relate to the issue of aidcp certification and consumer information. again, such amendments are not helpful in this instance since the issue of whether the community accepts aidcp certification is still being considered by the member states and, pending such a consultation, the commission has not adopted any fixed position. the inclusion of any reference to certification is premature and could prejudice the internal debate that still has to be concluded. furthermore, the issue of certification is not one of the objectives of the aidcp, nor is it included in the general measures of the aidcp agreement, nor in the application of the aidcp programme itself. this is a secondary commercial economic interest that is a consequence of the implementation of part of the aidcp, and not a core element.
i have been advocating a balance that i believe is possible between the preservation of ecosystems and the socioeconomic interest of the fisheries sector, which, although difficult, is, as you can see from this commitment, often achievable. as rapporteur for this proposal for a decision on the conclusion by the european community of the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme, i have had the opportunity to note with particular appreciation that it is possible to agree on strategies which meet the interests of fishermen and the forces involved and at the same time preserve the richness of ecosystems. the programme which forms the basis of this agreement, which the european community intends to conclude, is based on three fundamental priorities: first, to monitor the abundance of dolphins and control their mortality rate associated with tuna catches in the agreement area; secondly, to study the causes of the mortality of these dolphins during fishing operations, while promoting fishing techniques and equipment capable of minimising these effects; and thirdly, to study the consequences of different fishing patterns on the various species of fish and other animals in the pelagic ecosystem. to achieve these objectives, the inter-american tropical tuna commission, which coordinates the programme, proposes a set of measures to be implemented, including the application of sustainable fishing quotas for tuna caught in the agreement area and the inclusion of observers on board each vessel when it goes out to work. ship owners and fishermen, aware of the importance of preserving living resources, have been developing fishing techniques that are less harmful to both the target species and the associated by-catch. the concerted efforts - and this is important to note - have resulted in a decline in bycatch of dolphins in the agreement area using the siege method from about 150,000 catches in 1989 to 1,500 in 2002. in addition to playing an important role in the preservation of dolphin communities in this region, this agreement also has a significant impact on the preservation of the ecosystem as a whole, since it also preserves communities of other species, such as sharks, turtles and other aquatic animals killed using other fishing gear aimed at catching these tuna. all this is evidence of the high level of selectivity of fishing that has been achieved and allows this programme, to which the community wishes to join, to be classified as a good programme. in addition to the technical measures involved, the programme adopts a process of certification of products caught without harming dolphins, and i should stress that only those that do not have associated catches of dolphins can have this labelling, as well as other species for which the offers are not directed. this issue of tuna certification has been widely discussed in the cofi/fao and even in the european commission itself, which, as i understand it, is currently preparing a communication on the subject of eco-labelling. this is an important subject which deserves to be discussed, particularly because, in the specific case of tuna, there are some non-governmental organisations which have influenced, sometimes in a less transparent way, the trade flow of processed tuna products in the european union. i think, commissioner, and it was in this sense that some amendments were tabled, that through the discussion we had in the committee on fisheries, this was an important moment to be able to make the commission and also all the members of the committee on fisheries aware of the need for the european union itself to regulate the issue of eco-labelling. it is my view that a public body must lead this process; while private bodies and ngos can be partners after or before this process, it must be a public body that leads it so that we can have maximum credibility in the whole certification process. for all these reasons, and in accordance with the guidelines of the common fisheries policy, i believe that this programme deserves the positive opinion of this european parliament as regards the conclusion of this agreement by the european community. i should also mention and note that the report was unanimously approved by the committee on fisheries, whose members i thank, the scientists and organisations and, of course, the european commission and the non-governmental organisations such as wwf, which were present at a mini-hearing i organised and which served to explain to everyone the importance of this programme and to prove that it is possible to get fishermen, scientists and politicians to agree on such an important matter as this and which can also give a positive note, as i said, to the role that the european union must play in the future, not only within this agreement, safeguarding what is articulated in it, but also in the whole process of eco-labelling in the european union.
in writing. as the report states, smes represent more than 95% of enterprises in the union. hence the important economic and social role they play, which is fundamental to justifying greater community support. but, like other reports, it insists on covering up measures which, under the pretext of competitiveness, in practice work against micro and smes and benefit mainly large companies, economic and financial groups and multinationals. for example, we disagree with the idea that the 'structural changes' taking place in the european union are beneficial and should be encouraged. thousands of jobs are at stake and the economic and social impacts of such 'changes' are enormous. the rapporteur notes that the analysis of these 'structural changes' is incomplete, but he says that there are no indisputable data on relocations and merely suggests a report to the european council. the fact is that the number of people moving to another country is already high and the consequences are disastrous, which should mean more effective measures to prevent the growing increase in unemployment and the worsening of living conditions.
in writing. european industry is undergoing structural changes for international reasons, but above all for its own reasons. with the exception of the initial phase of coal and steel, the european union has turned its back on its industry, despite the fact that it is a source of jobs, economic growth, service activity, skills and knowledge that a developed economy cannot underestimate. the eu must therefore unhesitatingly adopt a coherent and voluntary policy for its industry, one which is able to anticipate structural changes and develop a solid and competitive industrial base. european industry has no alternative but to distinguish itself from its competitors by relying on its added value, such as its human potential, its capacity for innovation and its sme business fabric. but this support for industrial policy implies a balanced development which preserves social cohesion. the regional impact of recent relocations cannot be overlooked. the structural funds, in particular the esf, could be directed towards supporting the socioeconomic and industrial conversion of the most affected regions. one solution would be to establish industrial activity in a region on a lasting basis by supporting the creation of regional synergies between companies, universities and research centres.
in writing. in march 2005, the council of ministers carried out a review of the stability and growth pact. the aim was to make the jep a more flexible and rational instrument. it was decided to value the 'c' for growth more than the 'e' for stability, given the economic recession the eu is going through. the pec was thus more politicised. however, this review fell short of expectations for a number of reasons, two of which i would like to highlight. firstly, the reform was only necessary because some member states decided, deliberately or not, to flout its rules. more seriously, the eu has set rules which, in addition to not being applied, have given rise to a lax and addictive sanctioning process. the member states are both parties to the same case and are also the judges. they therefore prefer to suspend the application of the jcpoa rather than impose sanctions on one of their peers. the commission, which is responsible for monitoring, should have the power to impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance. secondly, any sanction must be dissuasive and not merely punitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cfp is not disrupted by the introduction of new rules. other sanctions should be given priority, such as the suspension of voting rights in ecofin.
in writing. as was mentioned in the plenary, this reform of the stability pact is very insufficient. what was needed was the suspension of the jep and a major break with the current economic guidelines in order to create the macroeconomic conditions which would allow a relaunch of economic recovery and employment growth. that is why we are advocating a genuine pact for growth, employment and social progress. our vote against was also reinforced by the rapporteur's defence of involving the ecb and the possibility of the commission carrying out financial audit missions in the member states. this is a good example of a report which forgets the fundamental reasons for the 'no' vote in france and the netherlands on the so-called 'european constitution', forgetting that it is necessary to respond to the aspirations of the people.
in writing. because the admission of economic migrants is the cornerstone of any immigration policy, it is necessary to create a common legal framework and strengthen integration policies by defining common basic principles on the integration of legal immigrants. there should be three main pillars: - the promotion of legal immigration, in a global and horizontal approach, adapted to the real possibilities of each member state; - with particular emphasis on partnerships with countries of origin and transit, in particular through information campaigns; - the effective integration of immigrants, with reception and integration policies, which should take account of the specificities and historical and cultural links of each member state. a set of rights common to all migrants in the eu should be defined, but bearing in mind that excessive 'generosity' in granting other rights can lead to greater rejection and be the seed of undesirable xenophobic reactions (such as granting the right to vote). - the firm fight against illegal immigration - by seeking to stem, if possible, illegal immigration and related problems such as the economic exploitation of migrants at their source, while preventing and punishing all forms of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. the bowis report on the development of health care and patient mobility seeks to guarantee the right to seek timely treatment in another member state if it is not available in one's own country or within a reasonable period of time. we therefore consider it to be generally positive, although very insufficient and in some places even contradictory. the rapporteur considers that the organisation, financing and provision of health and medical care is a matter for the member states, although he does not mention the training of health professionals, and is left with a vague statement that the european union is responsible for ensuring public health. the priority of maintaining and providing unrestricted and universal access to public health services in any country of the union should also be stressed, although it is not clear who will pay for it. it is also important to note that health services are services for people who need them and cannot therefore be compared to goods for sale and as such it advocates their exclusion from the general services directive.
in writing. patient mobility is still complex due to differences in national health systems and traditions in medical care. however, patients should have the right to seek timely treatment in another member state if it is not available in their own country or if it is not available within a reasonable period of time. a coherent policy on patient mobility is urgently needed, with guidelines for use by patients, healthcare professionals and funding bodies. i therefore voted in favour of this report so that we can all benefit from this community progress. i would also point out that health services are services for people who need them and cannot therefore be compared to goods for sale, so this subject requires a specific proposal from the commission and should not be included in the general directive on services. finally, following the creation of the european health card, the european commission should monitor its application in the member states in order to ensure that they provide clear and comprehensible information to the public on how to use it.
in writing. the real objectives of this resolution can be better understood by reading the resolution on transatlantic relations, debated in this plenary session, which calls for a us/eu 'partnership' and for its 'active engagement in the reform of the un, in particular the security council, including its composition, ... to authorize the use of force to resolve international conflicts, with a view to increasing its effectiveness and responsibility, as well as the capacity to implement its decisions'. despite its mystifying language, the resolution cannot hide the fact that it is intended that the un should 'legitimize' and 'normalize' the adoption of so-called 'preventive measures' and 'humanitarian intervention' and 'the possibility of using force', in particular by the armies of eu countries 'converted' into forces of external intervention. that is, to turn the united nations into an instrument which, manipulated by the us in partnership with the eu (france, great britain and germany), "whiten" its imperialist policy, its interference and aggressions against the sovereignty of states and peoples. the resolution therefore supports the ongoing militarization of the eu and calls for a seat in the security council, after the adoption of the so-called 'european constitution', for this political-military bloc in the making. peace is also on the nos of the french and dutch referendums!
in writing. the resolution welcomes the current "improvement in the climate of transatlantic relations" and looks forward to the us/eu summit in washington on 20 june and the international conference on iraq co-organised by the us/eu in brussels on 22 june. the resolution tabled by the right wing and the socialists seeks to continue the dangerous objectives enshrined in the so-called "european constitution" and the "european security strategy". they therefore reaffirm the need for "cooperation among the transatlantic partners based on a firm institutionalised framework" to "resolve high-level political issues such as decisions on the use of force and matters related to world order", "clearly recognising that operating together rather than in different or even opposing directions brings more benefits to each partner". the resolution calls for partnership in the so-called 'combat against terrorism', in the 'non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of nuclear energy', in relations with china, india, japan, latin america and russia, in the situation in ukraine, lebanon and kyrgyzstan, in the wto negotiations or in the reform of the un. it reaffirms that nato must become 'a true partnership between equals', recommending 'a closer relationship between nato and the eu', which will strengthen the eu/us relationship. that is, imperialism in its concertation...
in writing. we voted against this report because it is one of the most striking examples of the neoliberal ideology supported by the european parliament. however, the proposals we put forward were generally rejected. for example, they have not taken into account that the years following the creation of the euro area were characterised by slow economic and employment growth, rising unemployment rates and a transfer of productivity gains from workers to employers, as well as by persistently high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequality in the european union. they also ignored that the european employment strategy, drawn up in november 1997 and included in the lisbon strategy as defined by the european council of march 2000, was the main instrument for promoting the flexibility, adaptability and mobility of labour markets, wage adjustments and changes in wage composition, as well as the opening up to private interests of much of the social security services, including pensions and health, which had a negative impact on the quality and security of the jobs created, workers' rights and income distribution, and the general level of productivity.
in writing. in increasingly global world markets, european companies face problems of lack of competitiveness. at the internal level, european industry itself is going through an intense period of restructuring with job losses and production units being lost. the pattern of employment in certain regions and in certain industrial sectors is changing profoundly. the fact that economic growth in the european union is still below 2% does not help to resolve this gray area either. if the eu is to remain an area of economic, social and environmental progress, member states must firmly pursue reforms both in their labour markets to improve the employability of european workers and in their tax systems to make work financially attractive. the reform of these social and fiscal policies must be articulated in a coherent way as a necessary and indispensable factor for sustainable development and growth. in this context, strengthening the internal market, including in the area of the freedom to provide crossborder services, is boosting the economic growth that the eu lacks by generating more than 70% of wealth and employment at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i and mr joel hasse ferreira, who was absent, believe that it is essential that the promotion of employment and the fight against social exclusion be carried out effectively throughout the european union. the creation of more and better jobs is essential to combating poverty effectively and indeed the quality of these jobs cannot be considered a less important aspect. we stress the need to use incentives to stimulate local organisations that support the effort to integrate more people into the labour market. this line of action is important if, in addition to economic growth, solidarity-based development is to be ensured. in many member states, labour rules and the characteristics of the labour market have changed significantly during the change of regimes and systems. ladies and gentlemen, we must now assume that in a different social and political model, the fight against unemployment and the struggle for social inclusion also involve improving the quality of education and lifelong vocational training. other important aspects of this debate are the consideration of access to housing as a factor of social inclusion, but we would also like to stress the need to effectively support the inclusion of young managers with degrees or other higher education qualifications in the labour market so that they can effectively use the skills they have acquired in the education systems. in addition, the inclusion of these young managers in the productive sphere will contribute to the modernization of the economy. both mr joel hasse ferreira and i myself also stress the proposal of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which calls for the various member states to devote special attention to eradicating poverty, which affects women, children and ethnic minorities in particular. the lisbon strategy, in addition to the importance it attaches to competitiveness, includes the defence of the european social model. in this context, the promotion of sustained economic development, integrating the creation of more and better jobs in a context of social cohesion, is crucial if the peoples of all the states of the union are to be able to be in one single market, in one developed and united europe.
author. mr president, we are seriously concerned about the situation in bolivia, which is the result of the poverty situation and the enormous social inequalities that persist, but we reject any foreign interference and any attempt at a military coup. we are equally concerned about the attempts of separatism by certain economic circles in santa cruz, which want to monopolize the country's energy resources. we therefore hope that bolivian society will reach a consensus so that the control of the management of the country's natural resources, in particular energy and water resources, will be taken over by the state and contribute to its development and the social well-being of its inhabitants. we also hope that the decision of the constitutional court will be implemented, which declared certain energy agreements signed by the previous government with multinational companies to be illegal because they were not subject to the mandatory consultation of the bolivian parliament. it is also important that the perpetrators of the october 2003 massacres be effectively punished and we call on the oas to take precautionary measures in favour of the leaders of the social movement who are under threat, such as evo morales and abel mamami. finally, we insist that the member states be called upon to take action in the international institutions and at bilateral level with a view to cancelling bolivia's external debt.
madam president, the council lacked the courage to bury the treaty. there is no postponement of what has died, nor is there a resurrection for what cannot be saved. the council still lacked vision. the frankness of your president only illuminates the hidden truth of the europe of governments. with no political ambition of his own, hostage to national egotism, he wants to make omelets without eggs. he's in the grocery business, so he can only fail. there's a before and after french vote. either europe wants to be just a market or it is going to be refounded and move forward by listening to the social reasons for the referendums. the emergence of public opinion is the most important new feature of this crisis, this new protagonist does not want less europe, but more and better europe. the answer is not pause, but the courage of a new constituent process, truly democratic; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would first of all like to congratulate the commission and the luxembourg presidency on the efforts they have made to avoid the disaster of the european council. to paraphrase mr juncker, the european council was not a failure of the presidency, it was a failure of europe. it was a disappointment. the citizens expected a strong message and received a response without grandeur, without ambition and without a mobilizing idea. the union thus missed a unique opportunity to convey an image of strong leadership and unity. european leaders have fallen short of history, national interests have overridden the values of the union. selfishness has outstripped solidarity. let us now take the opportunity to find answers to citizens' questions: what is europe's role in the world? how can we increase productivity and competitiveness in a globalised world? how to reduce unemployment? how can social cohesion be ensured? what social model? europe is at a crossroads, but history teaches us that it is in times of crisis that the best transformations can take place. i hope we can turn difficulties into opportunities. the world has changed, the desires and needs of citizens have changed. the european union must keep pace with these changes, starting with a change in its relationship with its citizens. but change does not mean changing something so that everything stays the same, as a character from lampedusa recommended - that would be an achievement. europe can live without a constitutional treaty, but it can hardly live without an agreement on the financial perspective. europe must be a political union, an area of cohesion and solidarity, not just a free trade area. this is the challenge for the next presidency, which i hope will surprise us all pleasantly.
mr president, this present time of the european project, marked by uncertainties and anxieties, is also the time that pushes us into the future. it is because europe has become ambitious that it is rethinking and questioning itself. it was to aspire to an inclusive and inclusive justice system, capable of spreading to the world an essential sense of humanity, that europe built a draft constitution. and it was this project that brought europe out of the closet of the offices into our streets and our neighbourhoods. we must admit that the debate on the european constitution marks the greatest moment of democratization in the history of europe. europe is looking for a public space marked by transparency and trust. because there is no middle ground to this odyssey. europe cannot, for the sake of justice, abandon this political sharing. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. without an integrated europe there is no model of europe. without the model of europe, there is no crusade of dignity in the world. political integration is the means necessary for effective decision-making, the consolidation of our system of values and europe with one voice. in the near future, the european parliament's prominence and visibility, networking with national parliaments, the activism of political parties, local authorities and citizens' associations, and the mobilisation of the media are essential. the european institutions have an undeniable responsibility here, because the european debate is not just a sum of national debates. the constitution is this process of seeking consensus in an open and fragmented order. the constitution calls for our responsibility to become aware of a common interest. and so there are inevitable themes: enlargement and governance; the european union's financing model; the decision-making system and subsidiarity; integration and social, economic and political pluralism; the governing constitution or the constitution as a framework order. the way is made by walking.
this was a european council at which the consequences of the double victory of the no vote in the referendums in france and the netherlands on 29 may and 1 june respectively were made clear, and which opened up new possibilities for the fight against the increasingly neoliberal tendencies which have been imposed in recent years in the european union, culminating in their total incorporation in the draft of the european constitution. from the political and legal point of view, the constitutional treaty has been mortally wounded by the positions of the people in these referenda, since only a treaty which has been ratified by all 25 member states can enter into force. the european council of 16 and 17 june 2005 therefore had no choice but to recognise the evidence. yet he refused to do so, admitting only half defeat, and prolonging the agony for a while longer, by deciding to take a year's pause for reflection. it will have to admit later that this proposal, as it stands, cannot enter into force. and even a review will necessarily have to go back to the beginning of the whole ratification process. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. (summary declaration in accordance with article 142)
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr karas, as i had the opportunity to do in the debate we had in strasbourg a few days ago, and to stress the depth of his work and the competence with which he carried it out, despite our differing views on the most appropriate instrument for achieving stability in public finances and the importance which this instrument should assume in the necessary recovery of the european economy. the question here today is whether we accept a proposal which seems to be relatively balanced and therefore get that balanced proposal approved during the luxembourg presidency, or, through a process of successive amendments, find a way of postponing the process and possibly leading it to a relative dead end. i therefore believe that rather than appeal to the members of this parliament, who may, in some circumstances, block the adoption of the common position, we should be guided by common sense and the need to move this process forward. as we know, the council adopted a position last march amending the stability and growth pact in its two pillars. this position, although it does not satisfy me personally, is clearly a positive step towards pacifying the relationship with the eu of the citizen who does not see the economic governance of europe corresponding concretely to his concerns. that is the basis on which we must work. the sustainability of public finances, much less its consolidation, is not at stake, of course, but rather making the pact more effective and socially more comprehensible. so the appeal i would leave here is that we have common sense to be able to evolve this process. i would also point out that the european central bank itself seems finally tempted to adopt more growth-friendly monetary policies. there is talk of a possible interest rate cut coming soon. when the european central bank is ready to break with its orthodoxy, i do not think it is the time for parliament to maintain its stubbornness and financial orthodoxy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it is true that this decision has a number of amendments, which we welcome, particularly as regards greater transparency in transport payments, pointing to a real cost base. the members of the european parliament are elected in national circles and are, and must remain, bound to those circles. we reject the federalist conception of the mandate of member of the european parliament, since it forgets the very different social realities of the countries of the european union, in particular the wage reality of workers, exacerbating the distance between the elected and the peoples they represent.
in writing. we have always been opposed to the creation of a monthly 'parliamentary allowance' for all members of the european parliament, regardless of the countries and peoples they represent. meps are elected in national circles and are, and should remain, bound by them. the creation of a single 'parliamentary grant', financed by the eu budget and subject to a community tax, is part of a federalist conception of the mandate of the mep, aimed at transforming the current 'national mep in the ep' into a future 'european mep'. on the other hand, the social realities of the different eu countries are very different, making it inevitable, with the creation of a "parliamentary grant" of about 7,000 euros (about 1,400 contos) per month, the existence of situations of deep inequality and disparity in relation to the wage reality of workers and elected (such as members of the assembly of the republic) and holders of public institutions, especially in portugal, which would be completely incomprehensible. we also reaffirm our commitment to continue to strive for transparency and rigor in the use of the means made available to members of the european parliament for the development of their work.
in writing. the subject under discussion in this report is important and had to be tackled because, especially after the last enlargement, the lack of uniformity in the statute for members was a factor of unjustified inequality. i therefore voted in favour of what i consider to be the most relevant part of this proposal for a statute for members of the european parliament. there are, however, two aspects which i should like to comment on. the fact that this proposal does not cover the current legislature - as well as having a broad transitional period - has allowed me to act with the freedom of those who are not voting on matters of their own interest. finally, the opportunity. the report was approved after the vote, but if the opportunity had been put to the vote, my vote would have been against it. politics is not just symbolism, it is also politics, and the fact that parliament has decided to vote on this matter at this time of deep crisis in the european institutions does not merit my agreement or my applause.
in writing. i welcome the application of the codecision procedure to these proposals and the fact that the court of justice is now taking a position on the border code and, in particular, on the reintroduction of internal border controls. one of the greatest achievements of european integration is the ability to move around without being subject to internal border controls. therefore, they can only be reintroduced exceptionally and temporarily. without prejudice to the police checks that may be carried out throughout the territory. on the other hand, the external borders should be an effective filter to prevent the entry of people who pose a threat to our society, while safeguarding the flow of movement. border control must be effective and efficient, member states must have the necessary human and financial resources for this purpose, and fundamental rights must be fully respected in the application of such controls. i therefore support this report by mr cashman, which essentially supports the commission's proposal for the 'communitisation' of the management of the external borders, so as to ensure that controls are carried out in accordance with the same standards and that the same entry conditions are defined for third country nationals.
in writing. freedom of movement is admittedly one of the virtues most felt and appreciated by the citizens of the european union. at the same time, the question of emigration is one of the political issues to which we must give serious and sober attention. on this note, i consider that the more specific - partly almost technical - issue addressed by the report is nonetheless of no less importance. the practical rules to which both 'internal controls' and 'external controls' at the borders must conform are of significant relevance. first of all, it is important that security and the exercise of authority be properly accompanied by respect for citizens - whether nationals or non-nationals, whether member states or not. on the other hand, the existence of exceptional rules, the possibility for a state, for valid and justified reasons, to suspend the application of the rules, the fact that the possibility of appealing against decisions to refuse entry is advocated without prejudice to the immediate effectiveness of those decisions, and a set of rules on the procedures set out here deserve my agreement.
in writing. trade and cooperation relations with the countries involved in the programmes covered by this regulation are of the utmost importance for the union. the evaluations of these programmes are frankly positive and we must, in the context of good and effective trade relations, continue to support this type of initiative, which is aimed at coordinating initiatives to support research activities, youth exchanges or even trade missions, with benefits for europe today and for the next generations.
in writing. this report is an integral part of the stability pact reform package. statistical issues, in particular the harmonisation of accounting standards and macroeconomic aggregates for the calculation of the government deficit, were among the most developed parts of the report 'improving the implementation of the stability and growth pact' addressed to the spring council in march 2005. the intention to improve the european statistical system goes hand in hand with the attempt to restore credibility to the jep, taking account of statistical manipulations and multiple creative accounts. for us, the question is not the credibility of the jep. we believe that the sgp should be abolished in view of its socioeconomic impacts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. our vote against is therefore consistent with the overall vote against this so-called reform of the cfp.
in writing. all actions contributing to the improvement of the governance of the european union should be supported and taken seriously. the report by mr gauzès contributes to the efforts which must be made to reform the community statistical system in a fundamental context which is that of the stability and growth pact. essentially, the exchange of information must be governed by criteria of transparency and trust between the various actors involved. it is therefore essential that rigor, consistency and quality be the guiding principles for the collection, exchange and analysis of data, in the system of trust and transparency which is and must always be the guiding principle for interinstitutional relations and relations between the member states and the community institutions.
in writing. i support this initiative, which is necessary in view of the violation of the ceasefire agreement signed in n'djamena on 8 april 2004. this proposal, following up on un security council resolution 1591/2005, seeks to impose certain additional restrictive measures against sudan, namely:- freezing the funds and economic resources of persons obstructing the peace process- and preventing the entry into, or transit through, the territory of member states of persons who may pose a threat to the stability of that region. we cannot allow the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law to continue, and all kinds of atrocities to continue. it is essential that we take all the measures in our power to try to restore peace in darfur. however, bearing in mind that very special attention must be paid to exceptional emergency situations for humanitarian reasons.
in writing. the actions of states - and of international institutions - are always worth more than their words. in the case of conflict, victims know this truth better than anyone. that is why, in addition to my vote in favour, i express my hope that these measures will be effective, and we must count on the commitment of each and every one of the 25 member states. there are no, and there can be no, national interests which are contrary to peace and human rights.
in writing. the importance of the matter under consideration is inversely proportional to the speed with which the international community has acted in response to the tragic situation in darfur, sudan. i have made this observation, and i have insisted on it every time the european parliament has dealt with this subject, and i still believe that the spirit of the report deserves my support, my vote in favour and my hope that it will be effective.
in writing. as i said at the first reading of this report, the reform of the stability pact - the sgp - was insufficient. objectives and criteria have been reaffirmed, with more time being given in particular. but what was needed was the suspension of the jcp and a deep break with the existing economic and monetary policies in order to create a macroeconomic framework that would foster sustained economic growth and employment. that's not the case. the excessive deficit procedures continue to apply, in particular to portugal. with the aggravating circumstance of serving to justify the austerity measures included in the stability programmes presented, as is the case in portugal, where not only taxes are increasing, but there is a widespread attack on the public administration, particularly on public servants. you still don't want to learn the lessons. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i supported mr othmar karas' report because i consider it essential that the issues raised in recent years in the revision of the stability and growth pact be resolved. the reform of the sgp requires that more attention be paid to debt and that measures of comparison between the statistical data provided by the national central banks of the european central bank and the data provided by the member states to eurostat be taken into account. the reform of the eec must include all the actors involved in this process and all information on the development of the economies of the member states must be clear and transparent so that we can act in a timely manner with economic measures and reforms that favour the development and healthy economic growth of our economies.
in writing. mr duchon's report covers areas of the utmost importance for the future of economic activity in europe. the protection of the community's financial interests is essential in the fight against fraud and all illegal activities detrimental to its financial interests. i believe that this report reinforces the existing measures for cooperation and exchange of information, which are essential to combating these illegal activities, and i would stress the primary importance of olaf, as a body at the service of the union, in facilitating the exchange of information. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. almost half of the funding for aid to poor countries comes from the european union and its member states, which are the world's largest aid donor. the union also uses trade to promote development by opening its markets to exports from poor countries and encouraging them to increase trade with each other. the proposal for a regulation on access to community external aid aims to further decouple community aid in areas covered by tendering procedures for the supply of goods and services in the framework of external aid. the aim is to establish the conditions for access by suppliers to all development aid programmes financed by the community budget and to define the rules for the eligibility of persons and goods under the instruments, establishing criteria and derogations. i therefore support mr gahler's report, which stresses that a complete untying of this aid could give it an increase in effectiveness of between 2 and 3 billion dollars.
in writing. what i think is most relevant in this matter, and what justifies the meaning of my vote in favour, is the conviction that dissociation promotes the effectiveness of community aid. more than political reasons, it is the expectation - justified by studies - of greater success without even having to increase the budget, as a result of greater economic rationality, which i consider positive.
in writing. the scientific council of nafo has adopted a 15-year recovery plan for greenland halibut (palmette), which provides for a progressive reduction of the tac for this species. the plan, which has already been transposed into community law on a provisional basis, is now expected to become binding and permanent. although i consider the legislative proposal presented to be consistent with the new cfp, i do not agree with some points which in the version presented by the commission would be unfair to community fishermen. i am referring specifically to the reduction from 20 to 5% of the margin of tolerance between the estimated quantities on board and those actually recorded on board. since this limit has not been adopted by nafo, i have always considered that the adoption of this measure would be totally discriminatory towards community fishermen. i therefore welcome the deletion of article 8 of the proposal and consider that the ep has made the original document more balanced and fair.
in writing. this fishing zone, managed by this regional fisheries organization, is of enormous importance to the portuguese fleet. the plan provides not only for reductions in tecs, but also for additional control measures, which will obviously have socio-economic impacts. as in other plans for the recovery of stocks, we therefore consider it essential, in addition to ensuring the sustainability of fisheries resources and reliable scientific data, to ensure that the fleets affected by the reduction in fishing capacity or the temporary cessation of fishing activities are given adequate socioeconomic support. we support the ep's proposals which improve points on which we disagreed with the commission's proposal: - the absence of self-limitations by eu countries' fleets over other fleets operating in the same waters (it is not clear why the commission wants to be 'more papist than the pope' in adding new measures to the nafo plan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tacs are adjusted upwards if this stock is rebuilt.
in writing. mr kristensen's report touches on a subject which is undoubtedly fundamental for portugal. i voted in favour of this report which deals with fisheries issues in an area where community vessels are almost exclusively portuguese and spanish.
in writing. unfortunately, the majority in the european parliament insists on ignoring the crisis of confidence between the citizens and the european institutions, as the recent referendums on the former draft european constitution in france and the netherlands have shown. they therefore continue to insist on proposals such as the revision of the lisbon strategy, which includes the bolkenstein directive proposals, the organisation of working time and access to the market for port services, rather than demanding that the commission and the council withdraw them. they also support the council decision on the employment guidelines, which regrettably neglected equal rights and opportunities for men and women, particularly in access to employment, wages and professional promotion. they also continue to insist on projects such as the stability pact and flexible working arrangements, which we reject.
in writing. the fact that i voted against the motion for a resolution on this subject is not in any way due to any displeasure i have with the luxembourg presidency of the council. i think we can all see how justified the general praise for the luxembourg prime minister was. the recent events - the french and dutch rejection of the constitutional treaty and the failure to approve the financial perspective for 2007/2013 - cannot go unnoticed by the european parliamentarians. reality is not a detail. however, anyone reading the resolution that has been adopted will end up thinking that either the european parliament is distracted or that the citizens are. neither of these is true, at least not for me and not for the political group to which i belong. the crisis in europe demanded that the last european council be a moment of particular lucidity and of significant understanding of the feelings of the citizens. unfortunately, it was not. it is hoped that this crisis will lead to new and better solutions. i believe it is possible.
in writing. the report is an own-initiative report by the european parliament in support of the establishment (until 2007) and community financing of a 'european security research programme' within the framework of the 'european security and defence policy' and the so-called 'european security strategy' and 'hague programme'. in other words, the aim is to strengthen research in the area of information gathering and storage, surveillance, espionage, security, 'crisis management', etc., as one more piece of the machinery of the current militarization of the european union and its security drift, under the pretext of 'fighting terrorism', in cooperation with the usa. that is why i am voting against our group.
in writing. in the light of recent world events, security has become a key issue and member states must address new forms of security threats. however, there is a clear under-investment in defence research and development in europe. in fact, expenditure on defence r & d has remained unchanged, or even decreased, over the last ten years. i therefore congratulate mr klich on the preparation of this report, which supports the european commission's proposal to launch, by 2007, a european security research programme (esrp) to respond to the security challenges of today, while contributing to the growth and competitiveness of the european economy. the cepol should be supported by relevant security research actors and adequately funded in order to ensure maximum temporal continuity and best results.
in writing. europe must get used to the idea that security comes at a cost and that our need for security justifies the payment of that price. without prejudice to our relations and alliances, in particular our atlantic partnership, europe must invest in the safety of its citizens and to do so necessarily implies investing in research, a field in which europe has unfortunately not shown itself to be sufficiently committed and efficient. in the global context in which we live, and in the light of these considerations, i believe that the report in question in essence takes account of these concerns and advocates action to meet these needs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs trautmann's report. i believe that the issues of internet governance and the mechanisms for funding these new technologies are and should be at the heart of policy discussions in europe and the rest of the world. the importance of the information society for the objectives of the lisbon strategy is based on two pillars: on the one hand, the contribution to the achievement of the objectives of economic growth combined with a strong commitment to new technologies, and on the other, the need for a strong and consistent international presence of a europe that wants to prepare itself to be at the technological forefront. i believe that all initiatives which put us on a path of exchange of ideas and information and on a path of technological development which can only contribute to greater economic growth and development in europe should be supported.
on behalf of the pse group. i will of course refer exclusively to the lauk report, although i understand and advocate that the two can be discussed together. i would begin by telling mr trichet that i very much appreciate the quality of his report, the way in which the information he gives us is structured, in line with the speech the rapporteur made, but i would also say to the whole house, quite frankly, that this is not what is being discussed. what the european parliament will approve or reject is mr lauk's report, and it is essentially mr lauk's report that we have to vote on. it is indisputable to all of us that the objective of the european central bank, which is entrusted to it by the treaties in force, is to guarantee price stability. but it should be clear that, even under the present treaties, the monetary authority has a duty to encourage economic growth and to provide adequate support for job creation and domestic demand. by choosing, in an uneven way, to overvalue almost exclusively the main objective of the bank - that of ensuring price moderation - and above all by seeking to emphasize in a systematic, repetitive and redundant way the institution's position on its understanding of the recent change in the stability and growth pact, the rapporteur has put himself, in my view, in a fragile and unilateral position which obviously cannot have our support. the socialist group in the european parliament tried to correct this deficiency during the committee debate, but unfortunately the majorities which were formed during the votes prevented our views from being confirmed. we hope, therefore, that, contrary to the rapporteur's appeal, these errors can be corrected in the plenary, because there is no point in insisting on positions and understandings which, even if justified in the light of an interpretation of the single market in economic doctrine, do not mean anything to citizens today and, above all, are contrary to the everyday situations faced by economic operators. the current political crisis in the european union is not exclusively, and perhaps not predominantly, an institutional crisis. this crisis is, without a doubt, a crisis of policies, of policies which are unable to solve the concrete problems of people, to promote sustained economic growth and to create quality jobs. the constant assertion that europe's economic and social success depends on the implementation of structural reforms is increasingly becoming a mere exercise in rhetoric. firstly, because structural reforms cost money and are paid per head, which means that they generate expenditure before they have generated any revenue; secondly, because the nature of national public finances is increasingly less favourable to public investment, especially public investment that has less visibility and immediate party support; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to criticize, as the rapporteur does, the minimalist amendments which the council has introduced into the pact, and thus to side with the more orthodox currents which criticize this same amendment, is, in my view, to have missed the essence of what is happening in europe today and of what the economic and social problems in the european union are. the european central bank's activity is obviously a positive thing in the absence of a european governance model, and that is not in question. mr lauk points this out and we can also consider it, but i am referring to the conservative line of defence which i clearly cannot follow. i therefore ask the house, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to correct some of the errors in mr lauk's report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other mr president, ensuring the security of electricity supply and an adequate level of interconnection between the member states' infrastructures is absolutely essential, especially when it comes to building and developing the single energy market. i therefore believe that the commission and the european parliament should express a global view of this matter when drawing up the draft opinion on this report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is clear that it will not be possible to build a sound single energy market in an environment with very unequal supply conditions, whether in terms of prices, regularity or taxation itself. nor can this indispensable market be strengthened where there is no common vision on the use of the various forms of energy production. the question of security, energy supply and the interconnection of infrastructure cannot be merely the consequence and the response to some violent disruptions that have occurred in recent times and which have been so damaging to the level of development of the european economy. they must be structural elements of the common energy policy and enabling elements of the necessary policy of increasing energy efficiency and diversifying sources of supply. unfortunately, some of the proposals i made in my committee did not obtain the necessary majority, although they were strictly in line with the philosophy i have just set out and which i am sure is shared by the majority of members. the need to increase investment in the distribution network and in the interconnection of networks contributes to improving the conditions for the competitiveness of the member states' economies and for the progress and development of the european economy and makes it possible, in a context of excessive differentiation, to achieve the necessary balance between supply and demand. the report by mr chichester takes these aspects into account and in this sense makes a good contribution to improving the commission's proposal. however, it must be adopted so that the co-decision procedure can be closed at first reading. however, the key will remain the capacity of the european institutions to reform the energy market in the true logic of european policy, taking all its aspects into account.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. the intellectual freedom, technological innovation and the economic competitiveness of europe itself are at stake, as scientists, university professors, the student community, many organisations and small and mediumsized enterprises have rightly pointed out. the common position adopted by the council on 7 march is as unacceptable as the commission proposal for a directive presented on 20 february 2002, on which the european parliament delivered its opinion in plenary on 24 september 2004, and which the european council totally ignored, which is unacceptable. as we said then, we cannot allow patents to be granted on ideas, on knowledge, perhaps even on life itself. we therefore, as we proposed then with regard to the proposal for a directive on the patentability of inventions involving computer programs, call for the council's common position to be rejected. it is the right proposal at the moment, the only one which prevents us from embarking on a very dangerous path for innovation and knowledge. as we know, the copyright system today already provides great protection to software authors by allowing them to have control over the uses given to their work. but it is not acceptable to call into question the possibility for anyone to sit down at a computer and write the software they want, provided they know how to do it, or for a company to develop software specifically for their needs. concentrating the right to create software in the hands of a few would bring very serious limitations. it is well known that software has enabled economies to develop and many tasks to be automated and simplified at relatively low cost. now, in a legal framework where software patents are in force, this would not be possible. before starting to develop software, a company or anyone at home would be required to hire a team of expert lawyers to check whether the idea had the potential to infringe any patents. as you can see, we are in a very dangerous situation where, unlike ordinary patents which protect an invention, a software patent favours the misuse of an idea, i.e. software patents are in fact an attack on intellectual freedom, on the possibility of creating and developing european industry itself. in fact, software patents are merely legal mechanisms to concentrate in the hands of large multinational companies like microsoft and others, the evolution of knowledge and the capacity for innovation, since individuals and micro and small and medium-sized enterprises would not be economically able to compete in court with large companies that have an abstract idea. it is therefore essential to prevent the council's position from being adopted. we do not think that any directive is necessary in this area, but if it is, then at least the possibility of creation and innovation, intellectual freedom should be safeguarded and the amendments we support should be adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the agreement in question, being of real importance for the protection of migratory waterfowl, responds to environmental concerns which have a direct bearing on these birds but also on the wider concept of environmental conservation, a subject which should be particularly dear to us both as a country which can benefit from its environment and politically since it should be part of our concern to protect what we will leave as a legacy to future generations.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals for the future of the eu, including the introduction of a european patent system. we welcome the adoption of this report, as it will allow the permanent abolition of the use of six chemicals in children's articles, knowing that in some cases scientific studies have revealed that they could be carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction. it is therefore a positive decision and a valuable contribution to the protection of public health in general and children in particular.
in writing. the title of the proposal for a directive, and consequently of the report, does not reveal its real implications: the creation and functioning of an internal market in electricity in the european union. although it states that its objective is to establish a framework within which member states will define general, transparent and non-discriminatory policies for the security of electricity supply, it in fact subordinates it to the need to be always compatible with the requirements of a competitive single electricity market. the commission proposal takes price increases as the main mechanism for influencing electricity demand, and the argument that the internal market would provide lower prices is thrown out of the window. in fact, it is enough to look at the english case to make sure that there is no doubt about this. it also advocates the intervention of member states and regulatory bodies in support of initial investment and the return on that investment, but conditions its action in other areas. the report, on the other hand, in some cases makes the commission's proposal worse, in particular by not providing for specific measures to be implemented by the regulatory body in the event of non-compliance by the transmission system operator in the implementation of projects. hence our vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr chichester's report because i consider that the objective of ensuring the proper functioning of the internal electricity market in the union while preserving the security of electricity supply is fundamental. indeed, the establishment of a framework defining a transparent, non-discriminatory policy compatible with the requirements of the single electricity market is central to security of supply issues. we must therefore support measures to improve energy policies, given their indispensable nature for the quality of our lives today and for future generations.
in writing. i welcome the rejection of this report, to which we contributed, because it laid bare the problems that exist in the european union, particularly the worsening of them after the completion of emu and the introduction of the euro: recession, weak domestic demand, low economic growth, coupled with high levels of unemployment, poverty and income inequalities. the revenue cannot be the same, in particular the acceleration of the so-called structural reforms, i.e. the flexibilization of the labour market, the policy of liberalization and the privatization of social security. all in the name of defending the sacrosanct principle of price stability, that is, wage moderation. this objective has been achieved by reducing real wages and transferring productivity gains to employers. it was good that a strict view of the stability pact was rejected, ignoring its reform, in an autism that has clear class markings, as was the case in this report, which went so far as to criticize the existing working time in the eu, comparing it with other regions of the world, in the direct call for an increase in working time.
in writing. the main objective of the ecb is to maintain price stability, so it is reasonable to say that, despite the fact that the economic environment in europe and the world is not exactly favourable, the ecb has fulfilled its fundamental objectives and in this respect the report presented here deserves my approval. it is also true that the ecb effectively prepared for accession in may last year. it should be noted, however, that this does not mean that i agree with the ecb's policy in general and in full, in particular that i believe that the ecb has reacted in a timely manner to the evolution of the economic situation and the need for adjustment, particularly in the interest rate area.
in writing. the european union, with this information and communication strategy on the euro and emu, has one objective: to 'sell' the euro, i.e. to invest more money in the european propaganda machine sponsored by prince 'information' campaigns, to convince citizens of what they consider to be the benefits of the euro. that is why we are clearly rejecting this report, since it is part of the very principle that the euro is good and welcomes its benefits. he even considers it the most successful european project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro in the euro area. this means that the european institutions do not perceive the growing opposition to the euro on the part of citizens. they assume that if people are against it, it is because they are ill-informed or, better, not rational. this is the arrogance and the autism of those who claim to represent the citizens. the worsening economic and employment situation is forgotten, macroeconomic issues are left out of the equation, as if a single monetary policy could meet the differentiated needs of 25 economies. as if the aim of this policy were neutral, when it is aimed primarily at reducing real wages. what should have been done was to assess the costs of the euro, which is an obstacle to sustainable development.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague jules maaten on the important report he has produced on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and economic and monetary union, which i support, particularly as regards the need to explain to the population the benefits of the euro and emu for their daily lives. the success of the creation of the eurozone is not finished the european citizens must be convinced that they have made the right decision. only in this way will we be contributing to the consolidation of monetary union in europe and, consequently, to the increase in the credibility and stability of the euro zone. the enlargement of the euro area to include the eastern european countries is an inevitable project which will require the drawing up of an information plan as part of a general strategy for information and communication on the european union. it will be necessary to be more alert to the misconduct and cases of excessive rounding that may occur during the transition and to alert the population to a slight increase in inflation.
in writing. the advantages - and disadvantages, which are also obvious - of the euro are obvious and it must be acknowledged that they have met the best of expectations. if it is true that the european economic situation is not inspiring, it is also true that it would be unfair to blame the euro for this situation. the citizens have also been very keen to adopt the new currency, and it is worth noting the speed and ease with which the transition has been made. it must be borne in mind, however, that the euro is indeed a project in the making and that it is an easy target for genuine popular discontent with the european economic situation or for some political manipulation. now, money is too valuable an asset to be improperly preserved. for this reason, it seems to me that we should agree to a more comprehensive and complete communication plan, especially at the institutional level. the transition process is obviously still in progress, so the initial effort must not be lost.
in writing. the sustainable development advocated in this report is based on three pillars: environmental protection, economic development and social cohesion, and is considered to be unfeasible without the development of new technologies and environmental innovations. it is on the basis of these assumptions that the commission draws up its plan, which parliament has approved, albeit with some points of caution which should be emphasized, in particular the need for greater involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises. but it is also necessary to take into account that in order to promote sustainable development, research and innovation in technologies specialized in the preservation and restoration of natural, cultural and historical resources must be promoted. it is also important to develop environmental methods and indicators to measure the environmental damage caused by different products, services and processes, and to focus on environmental performance information to encourage consumers to seek environmentally friendly technologies. the reuse of materials should be encouraged, allowing waste materials from one production process to become a contribution to other production processes - for example, using municipal waste to save energy - thus enabling both economic and environmental benefits to be achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the myller report. i consider that an approach to new technologies which allows the creation of development programmes with an environmental dimension is essential for the lisbon objectives. the proposed action plan will enable all actors to be mobilised in an integrated action to develop the potential of environmental technologies, placing the union at the centre of their development. i would also like to recall that the review of the lisbon strategy concluded that the situation of the environment and the improvement of employment should be seen as an opportunity to achieve the objective of creating a more competitive knowledge-based economy. it is therefore of the utmost importance to strengthen the environmental dimension in the european union's competition strategy.
in writing. child labour is a reality resulting from the social injustice created by the capitalist system in which we live and the inequality in the distribution of wealth and the levels of development it generates. poverty generates social exclusion and justifies the need to rely on child labour income to supplement family budgets and to survive. it is the poverty of families generated by capitalist exploitation that makes it easier for some companies and entrepreneurs to take advantage of and maintain this situation, given that it is cheap labour without rights. as the report we have just approved points out, 113 billion school-age children are deprived of basic education. the lack of access to education facilitates the systemic reproduction of poverty, will make it difficult to access culture and education and will affect the literacy levels of society. this is also a reality in the member states of the european union. it is estimated that in portugal more than 4% of the child population is employed in various sectors of activity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one.
in writing. today, 246 million children worldwide work in places that are dangerous to their physical and mental health. child labour is not a phenomenon which relates only to underdeveloped or developing countries. in eastern europe and the mediterranean area, millions of children are exploited in the workplace. child labor is a complex problem. it is mainly the result of poverty, inequality of opportunity and lack of education. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights a number of measures to combat the exploitation of children and child labour, including the creation of a specific budget line for the protection of children's rights under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, the need for the commission to ensure that the european union's trade policies are consistent with its commitment to protecting and promoting children's rights and the possibility of creating a labelling system for products imported into the eu which certifies that they have been manufactured without the use of child labour.
in writing. there are 352 million child laborers in the world, 179 of whom are victims of what the ilo defines as the worst forms of child labor. we cannot be passive in the face of this situation. we all know that this phenomenon is complex and has difficult socioeconomic causes to address. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. child labour perpetuates poverty and hinders development, causes lower wages, unemployment of adults, and impedes the education of children. it is therefore essential to combat ignorance and promote the development of education for all. education is without doubt one of the most effective strategies we have to break the cycle of poverty, one of the fundamental elements for sustainable human development. for these reasons i voted in favour of the mavrommatis report.
the european social fund has a history of more than 40 years. it was initially instrumental in developing vocational training and in relocating more than 2 million workers who were at the same time working in sectors which had been subject to profound restructuring. following the adoption of the first social action programme and the single european act, the european social fund has been active in the fields of employment protection, worker participation, equal treatment for men and women, health and safety at work and the prevention of social dumping. the most important milestones in the development of european social policy and with an impact on the european social fund were the maastricht treaty, which established the promotion of a high level of employment as one of the objectives of the european union, and the treaties of amsterdam and nice. finally, the latest development was the draft constitutional treaty which set as objectives of the union full employment, social progress and the fight against exclusion. in view of these developments, the commission has put forward a proposal for a revision of the european social fund regulation based on the following three points: first, the lisbon strategy; second, the need to simplify texts and procedures; and third, the relationship between the european social fund and the european employment strategy. as regards the first, the lisbon strategy, and the part concerning the modernisation of the european social model, investing in people, combating social exclusion and the set of priority actions, such as the creation of a european research and innovation area and investment in education and training systems, in order to respond to the requirements of the knowledge society and the need to create more and better jobs, i think the proposed regulation is an appropriate instrument. as regards the simplification of texts and procedures, while it is true that the commission's proposals show a clear desire for simplification at different levels, it is also true that there are still many areas where further efforts to simplify and rationalize will be necessary. as regards the link between the european social fund and the european employment strategy, i would like to say that, in general, the proposal for a regulation on the european social fund integrates these two realities in a positive way. i would now like to refer to two amendments i propose to the commission's original proposal: firstly, the question of social inclusion. in this respect, i believe that issues relating to social inclusion cannot be resolved exclusively within the framework of employment policy and the labour market, because there are situations which require more demanding and interdisciplinary intervention upstream. i therefore thought that greater ambition should be emphasized in the european social fund's intervention and, in this sense, i wanted to propose that the fund's action should not be limited to the european employment strategy, since its possibilities for intervention are more extensive and that, therefore, the contribution that the european social fund can make to social inclusion should be clearly expressed. there is also another significant amendment to the commission proposal which is now being submitted to this house and which relates to the distinction which was initially made between the actions which the european social fund could develop in the regions belonging to the 'convergence' objective and in the regions belonging to the 'competitiveness' objective. i have always felt that the european social fund should be applied as broadly as possible, since it is an instrument for supporting people, regardless of the regions in which they live. after some contacts between the commission and the political groups concerned, a compromise solution was reached, which respects the coherence of policies and the concentration of resources on the regions with the greatest development problems. that is the compromise solution i am proposing to this house. i also know that there are points of disagreement between the commission and the council. in the proposal i am presenting, i have made my position clear on these points. i therefore share the commission's view on the status of transnational cooperation and innovation and propose that member states should be obliged to finance it. i also support the commission's position on support for the social partners and propose that a distinction be made between the social partners and non-governmental organisations in a number of regulatory aspects. finally, mr president, i would like to emphasize the excellent atmosphere which prevailed in the preparation of this report between the commission and the various political groups concerned, whose committed cooperation greatly facilitated my work. thank you all so much. (applause) i would like to thank
the european union has a long history of being a regional policy, and it is not just a regional policy, but also a regional policy. the structural and cohesion funds are an indispensable instrument, the only one with a redistributive character at the level of the community budget, which enables the european union to undertake actions aimed at reducing regional disparities, promoting real convergence and stimulating the sustainable development of regions, their growth, production and employment, as well as redistributing and compensating for the costs of the internal market, when it comes to less developed regions. one of the central issues is therefore the financial envelope, both in terms of amount and distribution. we believe that 0.41% of the gross national income of the european union is clearly insufficient to achieve the objectives proposed and to meet the cohesion needs of an enlarged european union. however, that is the proposal of the commission and of the european parliament itself in its report on the financial perspective. by limiting themselves to this ceiling, they not only call into question the european union's ability to promote economic and social cohesion effectively, but also fail to address essential issues, such as full compensation for statistical effect regions such as the algarve region in portugal, adequate funding for transitional mechanisms, including for the cohesion fund, or adequate funding for the outermost regions. this is a concession to the interests of the countries that signed the so-called charter of the six, which aim to limit the community budget to 1% of the gross national income of the european union. the failure of the last european council to agree on the financial framework for 2007-13 is, among other things, a victory for the signatories of this letter. it is known that the luxembourg presidency's compromise proposal envisaged a reduction in the structural funds' envelope by more than 30 billion for the period under consideration, i.e. it reduced the community's gross national income to only 0.37%. these reports also do not meet the implementation needs, either in terms of the amounts of prefinancing and co-financing or in terms of the conditionality of the cohesion fund to the stability pact. unfortunately, it accepts a new logic for the structural funds and their adaptation to the financing of the neoliberal lisbon agenda, as is the case with the european social fund, which is subordinated to the european employment strategy. we therefore reject the emphasis on competitiveness, competition, adaptability and entrepreneurship at the expense of cohesion and convergence. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments to these reports to address these key concerns and to strengthen european cohesion policy.
the two 'no' votes to the european constitution, which have recently been delivered, are a warning to citizens that europe should advocate a different social model, one very different from the united states of europe. european citizens have been adamant in saying that they want more citizenship, more social concerns and, above all, more of a european social model. the european social fund, the original principle of europe, has been supported throughout its history by cohesion policy, always aiming to help people and therefore the policy most felt by them. in my view, the european social fund and the other funds cannot stimulate a two-speed europe. the aim is not to place the excluded in a situation of ever-greater exclusion or even to ensure that the most varied discriminations in our society become ever more present. their goal is the exact opposite, to put people first. at this crossroads, we have to show people that we intend to continue to invest in them. we must therefore make the social model work. at this stage we must ensure that the objectives are met and that the statistical effects do not make the righteous pay for the sinner. we must ensure that we do not go from comitology to numerology in a linear way and that the smaller regions do not pay for the whole adjustment. what we want and hope for is that this whole package of regulations under discussion today, despite all the funding that has been put on hold, will really seek to implement the europe of the regions with people as the first priority. let us make this mobile the engine of europe.
several circumstances have made it necessary for this debate on the future of economic and social cohesion policy to take place at a particularly critical time for the european project. the way out of the crisis also depends on the way in which the european institutions, and in particular the council, are able to express the vision and solidarity needed to design a regional development policy that is capable of meeting the enormous challenges facing the european union. the united kingdom, which has just taken over the presidency of the european union, therefore has a huge responsibility. i look forward to this presidency with a mixture of concern and hope. i am concerned that the united kingdom is one of the six countries which want to limit the budget of the european union to 1% of gdp, which seems to me to be in total contradiction with a strong cohesion policy and with the ambitious objectives we want to set for future action by the european union. the european parliament is also concerned that the british government's positions on the renationalisation of the european effort towards economic and social cohesion are known, which would represent a serious lack of solidarity towards the new member states but also towards certain regions still in need in portugal, spain and greece. but alongside these concerns there is great hope, because we know that the united kingdom is willing to make it a priority of its action to strengthen the european union's competitive capacity, without which there will be no vigorous economic growth, no less than that of the united states of america, which will also allow a strong pace of job creation. and we will not achieve this unless we have the courage to implement the lisbon strategy in full. a strong and reinvigorated european cohesion policy with adequate financial resources is one of the crucial instruments for delivering on the lisbon strategy. the most disadvantaged regions of europe have enormous competitive and development potential which must be exploited. this must be one of the main objectives of european cohesion policy.
i should like to begin by, because i am going to speak about the european fisheries fund, to highlight the work that the committee on fisheries has done on this project and also to take this opportunity to congratulate my colleague, mr david casa, on the good work he has done on what will be one of the most important dossiers we are dealing with in this parliament. i think it is essential that the european fisheries fund should be the preferred instrument for reconciling the objective of preserving marine biological resources with the potential of fisheries. it is therefore essential that the budget allocated to this purpose is in line with the real needs of the fisheries sector in an enlarged europe facing new challenges. with a financial envelope for the period 2007-2013 virtually the same as that used in the community framework still in force and in a europe that goes from 15 to 27, it seems logical and necessary to me that the overall financial allocation for this fund be strengthened. the indicative level of funds, as already indicated, does not exceed 0.5% of the community budget on an annual average. in addition to the financial aspect, it seems to me that the intervention strategy proposed by the commission should also be adjusted. i am referring, for example, to the restrictions on the general objectives and rules for the fund's intervention which the commission intends to impose on undertakings. it will be impossible to ask our companies to be competitive and to develop technologies which protect the environment if we only support micro and small enterprises. another point concerns the modernisation of fishing vessels. i think the commission will have to reconsider its position on the replacement of vessels in the community fleet. i think that the prohibition of such a product is wrong in the interests of economic, biological, safety and operational efficiency. finally, i would like to remind you that the outermost regions must continue to be protected by the cfp. i therefore believe that the derogations already provided for for the spg in the fifg should remain in the new text of the european fisheries fund, and that the possibility of strengthening some of the measures inherent in these should also be considered.
i also want to congratulate our rapporteur, david casa, who has done an excellent job. i would also like to congratulate the commission, in the person of the commissioners present here, on the good proposal they have put forward, but i would like to mention what i consider to be the biggest shortcoming in your proposal, which relates to the natura 2000 network and its presence in the oceans, to the commitments made by the commission in the context of the ospar convention. these are international commitments which should lead to compulsory expenditure by the commission. unfortunately, the commission's proposal, which is indeed good in many respects, has a serious shortcoming in this respect. i would appeal to the commission and the council not to allow this gap to continue and to resolve it in their final decision on this matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
as regards the report (a6-0211/2005) on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (roma ii), drawn up by mrs diana wallis, i would like to point out that (in order to ensure freedom of expression and a legal framework for the protection of the privacy and legal security of journalists and the media in the european union) i voted as follows on the proposed amendments: (a) in favour of amendments 57 to article 6 and 56 to recital 12; (b) against amendments 10 to recital 12a and 54 to recital 26a, both in paragraph 3.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of our proposal to reject the council's march 2005 common position on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions. as we have been saying since the european commission presented its proposal for a directive in 2002, we have said that the introduction of software patents would jeopardise intellectual freedom, technological innovation and the development of europe's economy, as scientists, university professors, the student community, many organisations and smes have rightly pointed out. the high patent costs would be harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises, which would not only lack the resources to pay for patents on their inventions, but could even run the risk of having their ideas patented by third parties. software patents could still be used by large companies as a way of blocking new companies from entering the market. we cannot allow patents to be granted on ideas and knowledge. maybe even his own life. we therefore, as we have done in the past, signed the motion rejecting the council's common position, which was adopted today. it is a victory of knowledge, innovation and freedom of creation... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. although i co-authored a number of amendments aimed at improving the final version of the common position, in the event of its adoption by the european parliament, i was pleased to vote for and see its rejection, as proposed to the european parliament, adopted, because i felt that this was the best way to avoid the adoption of a document which clearly harmed the interests of small and mediumsized software companies as well as the interests of consumers. the proposal for a common position was also not in line with the most correct principles on creativity and intellectual property and its protection.
in writing. the question underlying this report and its resolution is what the limits of patentability of computer-implemented inventions are. it is well known that the most common form of software protection in europe has been based on the application of the copyright system, the proposed method being a concession to the american model. this import does not seem to me to be beneficial or likely to bring any positive clarification to the market, but rather contributes to increasing the difficulties of small and mediumsized enterprises which nevertheless produce the majority of innovations and account for 70% of employment in the sector. in the parliamentary proceedings it became clear that large european companies have sought to ensure the exclusive use of software which controls inventions by means of computers in breach of the provisions of the munich convention and the case law of the european patent office. the rapporteur rightly points out that 'a computer program is no more likely to be protected by a patent than a musical chord or a combination of words. as a grouping of interconnected mathematical formulas, it is a production of the human mind of the order of ideas. and the free flow of ideas is a founding principle of our civilization". that's my understanding, too. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. environmental issues are at the heart of policies for the future of europe. i therefore believe that it is essential to create tools to ensure that everyone is aware of these issues and also to promote better enforcement of environmental legislation. the report by mr blokland aims to incorporate the relevant parts of the unece protocol of 21 may 2003 into community legislation. the outcome of this report will provide improved information to the public and a better understanding of the quantities of pollutants emitted by establishments. i therefore voted in favour of mr blokland's report.
in writing. the major problem with this resolution is that it is conditioned by the european parliament's resolution on the financial perspective for 2007-13, accepting a financial envelope for the structural and cohesion funds of 0.41% of community gni for this period, when the increased needs for cohesion in the face of enlargement and the increase in economic and social disparities would point to more. that is why, among other things, we have once again proposed increasing the amounts for the structural funds, in particular to ensure full compensation for the regions affected by the 'statistical effect' and to ensure phasing-out mechanisms for the cohesion fund. proposals which, against our wishes, were rejected by the majority of the european parliament. we also regret the rejection of our proposals aimed at eliminating mechanisms affecting the implementation of the structural funds, in particular the levels of co-financing and pre-financing, or the linking of the cohesion fund to the stability pact, or mechanisms which call into question the objective of spending the structural funds (the 'n+2' rule). we also believe that the conditioning of public aid to enterprises on long-term commitments, particularly in terms of employment, should have been strengthened, as we proposed.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this interim report on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, and in particular the adoption of a new paragraph in article 3 providing that the regions affected by the statistical effect, such as the algarve, should receive sufficient financial support to enable them to continue the process of convergence and that there should be no differentiation between them on the basis of population parameters. this population parameter, which was part of the luxembourg presidency's negotiating package for the 2007-2013 financial perspective, lacks any objective support and must therefore no longer serve as the basis for unfair and disproportionate differentiations, which merely mark a 'before' and an 'after' in solidarity between the regions of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it contains a number of aspects which are of the greatest importance for portugal. i also consider them to be equally positive for the european union in which i believe. the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund are three funds of major strategic importance in pursuing the objectives of economic growth by promoting competitiveness, wealth creation and reducing the enormous regional disparities. i am therefore pleased to note that the rapporteur has defended what i consider to be essential aspects, such as the rejection of any attempt to renationalize regional policies and the rejection of any attempt to reduce the limits of state aid to the most disadvantaged regions, as well as the defence of the commission's proposal to penalize companies receiving european funds which relocate.
in writing. among other things, we consider that one of the central issues in the current proposal for a regulation on the cohesion fund - and which was already in the previous regulation - is the conditionality of the cohesion fund to the stability pact. in other words, the possibility of suspending all or part of the fund's financial assistance to one of the cohesion countries - such as portugal - if the decision provided for in article 104 (8) of the eu treaty is adopted. this conditionality is a double penalty for the target country. the rapporteur's proposal to convert this automatic decision into a political decision by the council does not solve the problem. we also disagree with the application of the so-called 'n+2' rule to the cohesion fund, which will place new constraints on the use of this money by countries which should aim to approach the levels of economic and social development of the community average. we still consider the amounts foreseen for this fund for the period 2007 to 2013 to be insufficient, particularly in view of the enlargement of the european union. in view of the rejection of our proposals to amend these and other aspects which we regard as negative, we voted against this resolution.
in writing. one of the most relevant issues in the debate on the future of the cohesion fund is, of course, that of 'statistical enrichment'. apart from all the other aspects of this fund, which are of the utmost importance, my main concern - as surely also the national authorities' - is to prevent the appearance of enrichment from resulting in real impoverishment as a result of the loss of support, thus interrupting a cycle of growth which has not yet been completed. this is the central problem for portugal in the discussions on the future of this fund, this is my main concern and, appropriately, the report has taken into account the need to find an appropriate political response to this question.
in writing. the accession of 10 new countries has posed one of the greatest challenges to the eu's internal cohesion: the disparities in economic development within the union have increased and regional economic and social disparities have widened. this implies a greater effort on the part of the eu's cohesion policy. it is currently undergoing a major reform to take account of the consequences of enlargement. in an enlarged union of 25, the reformed cohesion policy instruments need to be endowed with adequate financial resources and distributed equitably among the less developed regions of both the new and the 'old' member states, in order to further reduce the disparities in levels of development and backwardness of the various eu regions (now the 'convergence' objective) and to meet the new 'regional competitiveness and employment' objective. the recommendations made in the various reports today, in particular in my colleague claudio fava's report on the erdf, address these concerns. as regards the allocation of these funds, we are still waiting for the european council to agree on the financial perspective for 2007-13. we hope that these will be able to meet the new challenges of eu cohesion policy.
in writing. portugal has benefited substantially from the european regional development fund in recent years. it is true that we can object at national level to some - or even several - of the priorities of the different governments for the use of these funds, just as we can express our regret at the effects produced, since we wanted more and better. that said, we must nevertheless acknowledge the enormous positive effect that this fund has had on portugal. just as we should be concerned about the rules that will apply to it in the coming times. i therefore agree with the concerns expressed in this report, particularly with a view to ensuring a balanced distribution of these funds, bearing in mind the need to deal with enlargement already achieved - and future enlargements - without thereby harming the least favoured countries and regions of the eu, with particular attention to 'statistical enrichment' which is not enrichment and therefore cannot be understood as such.
in writing. among the union's basic objectives is the strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion through crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. these cooperation measures simultaneously promote the integration and balanced and harmonious development of the european territory. the union has therefore been creating internal and external instruments for crossborder cooperation within the eu. action to reduce the difficulties encountered in the management of crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation actions is therefore essential. i therefore support mr olbricht's report on the introduction of a financial instrument at community level to support the setting up of cooperative groups with legal personality within the eu, known as european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtcs), because i believe that this instrument can be of great importance for the balance of territorial cohesion in europe.
in writing. the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the european social fund closely follows the european commission's proposal, with an emphasis on the european employment strategy and the lisbon strategy, although in one or other respect it has introduced some amendments to include the experience of the equal programme, gender equality, the fight against poverty and greater attention to disability issues. but unfortunately four of our proposals were not adopted, namely: - to promote quality of work in all aspects beyond the question of training and the acquisition of new skills, in particular by promoting the improvement of working conditions (hygiene and safety, health and working rhythms), stable contractual relations, adequate wage levels, working hours compatible with family life; - the need to ensure, taking into account the socioeconomic situation of each member state and the social challenges facing the european union, a broad base of support, focusing in particular on increasing the skills of workers, improving working conditions, the objective of full employment with quality and rights and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. the european social fund has always played a decisive role in the development of europe, although its areas of intervention have undergone some reorientation over time. the latest proposal put forward by the european commission can be divided into two parts: one that proposes to modernise the european social model by investing in people and the other that provides for the simplification of texts and procedures. although i consider the commission's proposal a good one, i share the view that esf action should not be confined to the regions covered by the convergence objective. on the contrary, i believe that support for people should be provided in a non-discriminatory way. i therefore support the amendment to article 3 (1) which seeks to extend the scope of this fund, as well as the report by mr silva peneda as a whole.
in writing. the european social fund has been the financial instrument of european social policy for more than forty years and has been, it is acknowledged, a remarkably successful instrument. portugal is a privileged witness to this fact. at a time when our efforts must be concentrated on the effective achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, this fund is of very special importance. portugal has the greatest interest in seeing this strategy defined in lisbon implemented, not by successive declarations of intent, but by concrete action, by a realistic definition of priorities and by consequent action. in this sense, what has been proposed here by both the commission and the rapporteur deserves my substantial support, as i understand that both have clearly in mind these concerns.
in writing. despite the positive aspects, two factors lead us to vote against this resolution: - the commission proposal for a regulation on a european fisheries fund reflects, from a financial point of view, the guidelines of the last revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002, which we opposed; - the proposed financial envelope for the period 2007-2013 of eur 4.9 billion (almost equivalent to that provided for in agenda 2000 for an eu of 15) is clearly insufficient to meet the challenges facing the fisheries sector and the regions dependent on it. the increase in the funds allocated to this fund is important to ensure support for small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, investments in the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, socioeconomic measures accompanying the reduction of fishing effort, the financing of recovery plans, support for industrial, commercial and aquaculture activities, and to ensure the participation of fishermen and their associations, in connection with the co-management principle. finally, we regret that our proposals concerning the financing of compensation for the loss of income of fishermen affected by a recovery plan and the equalisation of public aid with permanent cessation between owners and workers have been rejected.
in writing. the portuguese authorities, like the portuguese political representatives in the community institutions, must pay particular attention to fisheries. fortunately, the sea has once again been seen as one of the main drivers of national development, including, of course, the question of fisheries. in this connection, it was necessary for us to pay particular attention to the report in question in order to defend our legitimate interests, particularly as regards the replacement of old vessels, the extension of the scope of measures to modernise the fishing fleet, the protection of small-scale fisheries, aquaculture and marketing, and even the geographical scope, since portugal must bear in mind the fact that there are large urban centres in the coastal zone - by the nature of our history and geography - which do not justify their exclusion from community aid. as i said, it was in the light of these main concerns that i voted.
in writing. the resolution adopted, although unsatisfactory in some respects, seeks to update the principle of equal rights and opportunities for men and women in professional activity. these inequalities in treatment can occur not only in the workplace but also in the context of access to employment, training and promotion, and monitoring of practices should therefore cover all these areas. it is true that member states, in collaboration with the social partners, should combat the problem of persistent gender pay gaps and gender segregation in the labour market through regulatory measures that make it easier for both men and women to reconcile family and working life. we know that this means appropriate parental leave regulations for each parent, and the creation of affordable and accessible childcare and care services. we also know that the demand for equality between women and men presupposes changes applicable to both women and men. it is therefore important that member states, in collaboration with the social partners, ensure strategies to make equality between men and women a reality.
in writing. the principle of equal treatment has been enshrined in community law for decades. however, it has not been possible to date to put an end to the inequality of treatment between men and women. the gender pay gap in the european union has remained worryingly high in recent years, even though the employment rate of women has increased. the gender-specific wage gap in the european union remains at an average of 16%. this is often directly linked to the possibility of reconciling family and working life. i therefore support this report on the commission proposal to modernise and simplify community legislation on equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation. i would stress that the member states must make progress in implementing community law, in particular by promoting information campaigns to change attitudes in working life. on the other hand, the social partners can play a decisive role by promoting flexible labour regulations that allow both women and men to better reconcile work and family life.
in writing. mrs niebler agrees with and supports the fundamental objective set by the commission, namely to simplify and clarify existing law by means of this directive. i agree with the honourable member that this new version of the directive is a development of community law on equal treatment between men and women. i support the report by mrs niebler which draws attention to the need to achieve the objective of modernising and simplifying community legislation on equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation in order to ensure greater legal clarity and certainty. the rapporteur notes with concern that it has not been possible to put an end to the inequality of treatment between men and women. the legal conditions are there on paper and we are therefore still awaiting the results which are fundamental to the social objectives of our europe.
in writing. environmental issues are at the heart of policies for the future of europe. improving public access to information through the establishment of national pollutant emission and transfer registers (petrs) will therefore be key to providing transparent and consistent access to this information. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report silences the shameful aggression of the united states and its allies against iraq, the more than one hundred thousand dead, the destruction, the murders, the oppression and torture inflicted by the invading troops. a report that wants to make us forget the 'past' (which is, after all, the brutal present). it calls for a so-called "conflict management", i.e. a war of aggression, "more multilateral". that equates the legitimate resistance of the iraqi people with "terrorism". who dismissed torture perpetrated by the us as a "violation of rights". who hypocritically asks iraq's neighbors not to interfere in the affairs of this country, without a word of condemnation of the us aggression and occupation. it is ambitious to share this same occupation and plunder with the us under the un umbrella. who in an unacceptable act of interference advocates the implantation of capitalism, its instruments and policies. in other words, for the dominant forces in the ep, it is necessary to overcome the occasional disagreements between the eu and the us, demonstrating that the trend is towards compromise in the name of the interests of big capital, and to retreat in the face of the hegemonic pretensions of the us, subordinating and manipulating the un and reserving for it a supporting role. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. i voted in favour of the final version of this report because i found that the set of amendments to that report substantially improved it. this is not the time to return to the debate on military intervention in iraq - a subject on which i have had occasion to express my views. the important thing now is to discuss what the role of the european union should be at this stage in the political life of iraq. i believe that the eu must act in cooperation with its traditional allies and in concert with the iraqi authorities, bearing in mind the enormous courage of the iraqi people who responded positively to the call to vote despite the enormous threats from the terrorists who continue to operate in parts of iraqi territory. i also understand that all this cooperation must of course be in accordance with the united nations policy towards that country. in short, i believe and i advocate that the european union should cooperate without hesitation with the legitimate iraqi authorities and clearly oppose those who insist on destabilising the country by force. the existence of differences of opinion on military intervention does not justify differences of opinion on support for the iraqi people who are now victims of terrorist groups.
in writing. it is our duty, as well as our interest, to promote the development of living conditions worldwide. it turns out that for several years now a remarkable set of initiatives to combat poverty has not produced the desired results, not even the minimal results that would be expected. it is true that there are countries and regions in the world where this fight has had results that we can classify as positive, not because poverty has been eliminated - far from it - but because they have shown that they are moving in the right direction. this has been the case in parts of asia or latin america. unfortunately, this is not the situation across africa, where our efforts have to be redoubled, but they have to be matched at the local level. it is impossible to help those who do not let their people be helped, who harm them, who promote all the causes of poverty, namely corruption. i therefore believe that the initiatives supported by the european union should combine the fight against poverty with the fight to create conditions for local development, in particular the promotion of democracy, freedom, respect for human rights and the market economy. giving money (or forgiving debts) is not enough nor is it always a promising path. we must do and achieve more, and above all better.
on behalf of the pse group. i was also moved by the intervention of the minister and commissioner ferrero-waldner, who referred to a situation which must have occurred during the second world war, and yet every year, and still today, 20,000 people are victims of abandoned mines or munitions, and among them 8 to 10 000 are children killed or maimed, most of them by the so-called anti-personnel mine variant. these immoral weapons continue to have social, economic, environmental and humanitarian consequences and thus constitute an intolerable threat to the human security of entire communities. the ottawa convention represents a tremendous step forward in the fight against this scourge, but as we heard on the information day organised here in the european parliament on 16 june from jody williams and ambassador wolfgang petritsch, much remains to be done. in addition to the legal obligations to which states parties are subject, the international community has a duty to eliminate once and for all not only so-called anti-personnel mines but any mines or devices that can kill or maim indiscriminately. and countries like mine, which have mined other countries, in colonial wars or otherwise, have particular responsibilities now to help clear them and to support the recovery and social reintegration of their victims. europe in particular must maintain its leading role in this area and extend it to other areas of disarmament. the production, trade and use of anti-tank mines, cluster munitions and small arms pose challenges which must be faced now, or else we will lose the initiative, and to do this, the members of the union and the commission must come together and speak with one voice, more audibly and more effectively, promoting the universalization of the octave convention in all international forums and in relations with third countries and insisting on its ratification and assisting in its implementation. to this end, it is important that those countries of the union which have not yet signed or ratified the convention do so without delay and join the 144 nations who consider that this and other dimensions of global disarmament are fundamental elements of the sustainable stability of our planet and the security of all of us. it is therefore, as the nairobi review conference conclusions say, a matter of working towards a world free of mines. we owe it to thousands of communities whose development is threatened by these and other weapons that kill and maim at random. human rights, human security, peace, the most essential values on which the european union is founded. that is what is reflected in the resolution we are proposing.
i would like to thank you, madam president, for the careful and rigorous reply which has just been given by the british presidency, and allow me, mr minister, to extend to you and to the whole presidency my sincere wishes for great success in the european challenges which lie ahead. but the question that has been raised here has a fundamental problem at its root, namely the relationship between the european institutions and those who are actively promoting terrorism in third countries. even today, in the press, i could see that in iran there is an active campaign to get people to commit suicide bombings in israel and iraq. i wonder what the presidency has to say about this.
mr president, we would almost say that this debate concerns only the epp, but that is not true, it concerns the whole of europe. i would like to begin by congratulating mr kirkhope on the work he has done in defending the prerogatives of this parliament. i would like to congratulate the commission on this initiative and i would like to tell the commissioner that it is very important that, after iceland and norway, switzerland can become the third non-eu country to be associated with the implementation and application and development of both the schengen acquis and the dublin/eurodac system. the swiss have, as mr kirkhope has already said, decided by referendum to strengthen their relationship with the european union by joining the schengen area, which allows free movement, and, within the framework of the dublin agreement, which deals with asylum policy. i welcome switzerland's entry into these systems, which will allow the removal of a number of obstacles to free movement and a strengthening of cooperation, which is essential in view of its geographical situation. switzerland gains politically in terms of greater stability within its geographical neighbourhood and economically by benefiting from greater fluidity of movement. the swiss authorities have therefore to accept and apply the schengen acquis in its entirety, which is not the case for all the member states of the european union, and only a derogation concerning the future development of the schengen acquis is provided for, which is considered to be a necessary condition for the conclusion of an agreement on the taxation of savings. as regards the second agreement, switzerland should accept, implement and apply the current and future dublin/eurodac acquis without any derogations. in conclusion, i would like to stress that these agreements mark a desirable rapprochement of switzerland with the european union, but they also constitute an example to other countries that it is possible to strengthen efforts, ties and policies with the european union without necessarily going through formal integration as a member state.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the opportunity to speak to the house on this matter. it is known that here in the european union there is still trade in timber illegally harvested in various parts of the world, particularly tropical timber from the amazon and africa. sometimes this is linked to serious social conflicts, sometimes, as has also been mentioned here, even to the death of people. i was recently in brazil and we had the opportunity to talk to several brazilian social organizations that are very concerned about what is happening, and the government itself and official entities have also expressed this concern. i therefore believe that action must be taken as soon as possible to prevent this situation from continuing, to stop it. we know that the consequences of this whole process are indeed tremendous. it is tremendous for the countries from which these timbers are imported illegally, as well as for our own countries. that is why a dozen companies in the european union have drawn up a document calling for measures to stop this import of illegally harvested tropical timber from continuing. you need to charge him. we also know that there are consequences not only on the social level but also on the environmental level. we are contributing to the undermining of vital forests and biodiversity, we are affecting the very climate conditions, the populations and employment of these producing countries, but also of the importing countries, harming companies that act legally and destabilising the international timber markets themselves. it is also known that the european union action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, which the commission presented in 2003, had defined as the overall objective of bilateral, regional or even interregional partnership agreements their contribution to sustainable development, so it is not understood why the implementation of the various commitments made in this plan has been so slow. nor is it clear why a study on legislative options, which was due to be submitted by mid-2004, was not implemented as planned, nor why detailed measures to ban the import of illegal timber and timber products, regardless of the country of origin, were not put in place, or why it was not possible to set up a network to facilitate the exchange of information on this illegal timber trade for customs and administrative and judicial authorities. it is therefore essential that the commission should present a detailed legislative proposal, but also provide more information and change the very legal basis of the regulation, which it says it is preparing, so that parliament can discuss this proposal and make a positive contribution to this whole process. it is essential that there is political will to put a stop to this illegal business which facilitates corruption and money laundering. we must act urgently!
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs kauppi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on clearing and settlement in the european union (a6-0180/2005) (com (2004) 2185 final).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the commission statement on the progress made towards accession by bulgaria and romania in view of the forthcoming interim report.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, commissioner, the import of textile products from china is the first sign of a new phenomenon which represents the beginning of the unstoppable process of chinese production's invasion of european markets. textiles are the first sign, all other production sectors will follow. we must recognize that europe has no effective response to this new phenomenon which is a consequence of globalisation. it must be clear that europe must compete with those who produce at lower wages, but neither europe nor anyone else will be able to compete with those who keep the currency artificially devalued, those who do not pay depreciation for investments made, those who do not pay for energy, those who do not respect environmental rules, those who use slave or child labour, and all this with the cooperation of the respective national authorities. the approach which the european union has followed in negotiating international trade agreements must, in my view, be reviewed in order to increase the pressure on the reinforcement of corporate social responsibility, strict respect for the standards and conventions of the international labour organisation, international environmental and human rights conventions, by including these principles in the european union's bilateral and multilateral agreements. i am also afraid that the import of textile products into europe is not being properly monitored. the information i have from the industry organizations tells me that in june 2005 the quantities recently negotiated between the european union and china for this year were already far exceeded. i hope and want to trust that the european union, through its commission, will show very quickly that it is capable of implementing what has been agreed.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. i would like to highlight some of the points and proposals contained in the opinion of the committee on regional development. firstly, the abolition of quotas in the textile and clothing sector could have disastrous consequences for the most disadvantaged regions of the european union. that this is a strategic sector for the european union with great potential and which can contribute to the effective achievement of economic and social cohesion. the european union should support the sector as a productive force, both at national level and in the community. to advocate the creation of a community programme for the sector, particularly for the less-favoured regions dependent on it. that support for the modernisation and promotion of textiles and clothing should be regarded as a cross-cutting objective of the european union's policies. the safeguard clauses in trade agreements must be put into effect as soon as possible in order to ensure the present and future of the sector in the european union. the urgency procedure provided for in the guidelines on the application of the safeguard clause should be triggered immediately, with all the categories concerned included. it is in the light of these points that i would like to make a few comments. the so-called memorandum of understanding concluded between the european commission and china on 10 june is basically intended to legitimize the current situation with its dramatic consequences for the sector, particularly in countries which are very dependent on it, such as portugal, which is unacceptable. as the industry's federations point out, based on data from the european commission itself, the agreement reached in the memorandum allowed for export increases of between 49% and 318%, compared with the figure for 2004 and the figure for 2005, and never the 8, 10 and 12,5% announced. moreover, on 20 june, reported exports from china were already, in almost all products, in excess of the level agreed on 10 june and, inexplicably, the european commission waives the right to trigger the safeguard clauses, restricting their application. the european commission and the council have acted in such a way that they have shown that they are not committed to defending this european industry, and are therefore primarily responsible for the tragic situation of thousands of companies and the destruction of thousands of jobs, with very serious social consequences. that is why we have tabled the amendments.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs saïfi on the quality of her work. what is at stake is the need to define and implement a commercial and industrial strategy to make the european textile and clothing industry unviable in the context of a wide opening of international markets. and that strategy involves the adoption of two essential measures: first, measures of a defensive nature and second, measures of a more offensive nature. the measures of a defensive nature are linked to the need to contribute to the regulation of international trade in this sector. in this context, all initiatives to ensure that reciprocal conditions for access to markets are created and that ethical, social and environmental clauses are activated which ensure that international markets are properly regulated are to be welcomed. this is not a question of protectionism. it is a question of ensuring that international trade in this sector is conducted in a fair and correct way. secondly, we must take aggressive measures, because there is also a question of the competitiveness of this industrial sector in the world context. these offensive measures imply the adoption by the european union of a more aggressive industrial policy in this sector, which is a sector of extreme importance. in this context, all initiatives to promote increased investment in research and development, to promote innovation and to improve access to finance, which is a crucial problem facing these companies, are also to be welcomed. we are talking about a business fabric which is made up of more than 95% of small and mediumsized enterprises, and one of the most serious problems facing them is precisely the problem of access to finance. in this context, we believe that it is absolutely essential to make progress in ensuring that we bet on technological progress in manufacturing, create new mechanisms in fashion and new services, bet on the creation of technical textiles and non-technological innovation, and create a european technological platform which has the very consequence of strengthening this industrial area. so there are two components here from our point of view that have to be valued. there's a commercial component and an industrial component. it is the combination of these two factors that can make the textile and clothing industry viable within the european union. i repeat, and i want to end with this, that when we call for the regulation of international markets in this sector, it is important that the european union has clear proposals in the doha round. when we talk about this we are not calling for protectionist measures. this is a sector which must be opened up, a sector which must be strengthened in its ability to compete in international markets. but what we are talking about is just the regulation of international trade in this very specific sector and that is absolutely essential.
in writing. the european commission's proposal for the financial instrument for the environment (life+) is insufficient in terms of financial resources and it is unacceptable that it does not include the natura 2000 component. the report adopted today improves considerably on the commission proposal by introducing, also with increased funding, the nature and biodiversity component, which includes the creation, preservation and management of natura sites (the network of sites of major importance for nature conservation in the european union), thus contributing better to the objective of sustaining the decline in biodiversity, both by 2010 and beyond. the amendments clarify the objectives of the life+ project, adding, for example, the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, the protection of the european forest patch, access to more information on the environment and increased participation of citizens in the achievement of environmental objectives. the question is whether this ambitious project can be realised with the existing means and political will.
in writing. the commitment that the european union has shown to the environment should, in general, deserve our support. we have a responsibility to try to leave to future generations a world in which they can live, and so the misuse of resources as if there were no tomorrow is intolerable. however, we must distinguish between policies which preserve the environment and policies which put the environment at the centre of action, as if there were nothing else. the existence of populations, economic needs and development, all these are factors which we must take into account. in this context, the concerns expressed by the european parliament, both in committee and in the debate in plenary, deserve my general agreement, especially given the reasonableness of what is common agreement. we protect the environment because we put people first. that should be our standard of action.
in writing. i welcome the content of the agreement with canada on the use of api/pnr data of passengers on flights to canada. i particularly welcome the principles of non-discrimination and reciprocity, the possibility of joint review of the implementation of the commitments undertaken, the limitation of the data transferred and the fact that they are transferred by the push system, which is a good example for other similar agreements, in particular with the usa. i welcome the fact that canada, unlike the us, has a legislative data protection system, including oversight by an independent data protection commissioner; on the other hand, canadian law gives citizens the right to access, rectify or even object to any personal information concerning them, and canadian commitments extend this right to eu citizens who are not present in canada. i support the excellent report by mrs int'veld and her proposals and agree with the need to wait for the court of justice's decision on the pnr/eua case.
in writing. one of the direct effects of the recent enlargement of the european union has been to increase the attention of policy-makers, the media and the public to a group of countries that are now part of its immediate neighbourhood. among them is, quite rightly, belarus, where events over the past few years have given rise to genuine concern. as has recently been made quite clear in ukraine, the european union can successfully promote democratic change in its sphere of influence. that is the deep sense of the concerns expressed in the resolution adopted here, and i fully endorse it.
in writing. ten years after one of the worst moments in europe's recent history, our reflection must seek to remember and learn from the terrible events of that time, while at the same time being able to understand two realities which are of the greatest importance. on the one hand, to realize how peace, which most of the present generations take for granted, is a fragile commodity. on the other hand, it is a matter of satisfaction to note that these ten years have enabled us to make a long journey. we must therefore remember the horror of the massacre and the responsibility of those who instigated and carried it out, and we must remember that some entities failed to protect the victims and learned from their mistakes.
in writing. one of the central issues in our relations with the far east is the arms embargo on china, which i support, although i am aware that this is a largely symbolic gesture, since even without european arms china poses a sufficient threat to taiwan, and is guilty of a staggering number of human rights violations. it turns out that china's power - now and in the future - is not essentially military. china is now a growing economic power, consuming enormous amounts of energy resources, a demographic power, a diplomatic power (either by virtue of its mere permanent seat on the united nations security council) or by virtue of its diplomatic and cooperation policy towards developing countries, which it helps without imposing any process of democratization, but on the contrary. so more than just discussing whether or not to take up arms, the eu has to think strategically. the democratization of china is our primary objective. no democracy is a danger to us. a military, diplomatic and demographic power with enormous economic strength and no democratic constraints can be a threat in the medium or long term.
in writing. the use of anti-personnel mines is one of the most terrible forms of warfare, prolonging the horrors of conflict into an often invisible future. it is therefore natural that we should express our commitment to the success of the mine ban treaty by joining the concerns expressed by the european parliament on this matter. but our concern and commitment to the success of this treaty is not enough. countries such as the eu member states must commit themselves to direct support for victims, usually in countries with very serious development problems, as is the case, for example, in angola.
in writing. in view of the state of the negotiations on bulgaria's prospective accession to the european union, and in full awareness of the difficulties still remaining, and also in view of the more recent accession processes, i believe that despite the possible longer duration of this process, bulgaria, and in particular its parliamentarians, should still be given the same conditions as were given to other states at the same stage of the process. i therefore welcome the decision taken by the conference of presidents on 9 june to invite the parliaments of bulgaria (and romania) to appoint parliamentary observers and to host them from 26 september 2005 until the formal accession of their countries.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the members of the committee on agriculture, in particular its rapporteur, mr freitas, and the members and rapporteurs of the committees on budgets, commerce and regional development for all the work they have done on this report. on 28 june 2001, the council adopted a reform of the agricultural aid scheme for the outermost regions of the union. the origin of these measures dates back to 1991, 1992 and they have proved their effectiveness in promoting agriculture and supplying these regions with agricultural products. however, their management has posed a number of problems. the two parts of the posei scheme, namely the specific supply and aid scheme for local producers, are characterised by their rigid management. as regards the specific supply arrangements, the commission is required to legislate for sometimes modest variations in the quantities of products to be supplied to the outermost regions. this is not an effective management framework. the aid schemes for local production are spread over 56 micromessages established by council regulations. it is not possible to adapt these measures without interinstitutional legislative procedures, which prevents any rapid action by the community when it comes to adapting support measures to specific situations. the commission therefore proposes a change in philosophy regarding the aid to these regions and the adoption of a participatory method of decision-making. the new system also allows for rapid adaptation of measures, taking into account the specificities of these regions. the draft regulation envisages the presentation of a programme for each of the outermost regions in the member states concerned. these programmes will comprise two chapters: one on the specific arrangements for the supply of agricultural products essential for human consumption - agricultural inputs or products for processing - in the outermost region, and one on aid for local production. as regards financing, the regulation does not alter the sources of financing or the intensity of community aid. the community will finance the programme under the eaggf guarantee section up to 100% within an annual ceiling set by the council regulation. part of this aid will be reserved for support for local agricultural production. the amounts are calculated on the basis of the average of the amounts spent to finance the specific supply arrangements during the reference period 2001-2003 and on the basis of the expenditure ceilings applicable to aid for local production. part of the subsidised amounts will be integrated into the direct payments under regulation (ec) no 1782/2003. they are part of the ceilings in annex 8 to this regulation. i now turn to the sugar reform and the outermost regions. although they are not part of the commission's proposal, i would like to make a number of comments on the reform of the sugar regime and the outermost regions. the commission is well aware that the characteristics of sugar production in the outermost regions of the community are significantly different from those in other regions. therefore, financial support should be provided to this sector by granting subsidies to farmers in the outermost regions. the restructuring scheme will be financed by levying a specific amount on all quotas for sweeteners. sugar undertakings in the outermost regions will not be covered by this scheme. this will put these regions on a par with the acp countries in terms of prices. this is an approach which the commission considers to be reasonable. in addition, the french outermost regions, which were the only beneficiaries of the cash-out aid, will receive an additional amount of eur 15 million corresponding to the current cash-out measures under the reference period. the direct payment for the outermost regions will be included in the single framework of the posei programme which we are discussing and, therefore, excluded from the single payment scheme. the french and portuguese outermost regions benefited from the same increase in their direct payments envelope corresponding to the decrease in additional prices as the other member states. the french outermost regions will receive eur 39 million, while the portuguese outermost regions will receive just over eur 1 million. i now come to the commission's position on the amendments. in view of what i have just said, the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 8, 9, 18, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 32 and it can accept amendment no 35 in part. unfortunately, the commission is not willing and is not in a position to accept the other amendments proposed.
the azores, madeira and the canary islands and the french overseas territories are the so-called outermost regions of the european union and are characterised by their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products. this concept of the outermost regions was introduced into the primary law of the european union by article 299 (2) of the treaty, and constitutes the legal basis for the council to adopt, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, specific measures applicable to the outermost regions. the outermost regions have been the subject of specific programmes, as the commissioner has already mentioned, to deal with the constraints of the outermost regions, which date back to 1991 and 1992. these programmes in the agricultural sector have included two types of measures: the specific supply scheme (ses) which supports the supply of agricultural products to the ors for food and feed, the processing of local industries and as factors of production, and support for local agricultural production. the impact of these measures was significant and had a positive influence on the revolution of the ors' economies. however, as has already been mentioned, experience gained over the years has shown the need to introduce greater flexibility in the management of these two schemes. the proposal now before us, which we are discussing, maintains the two previous programmes but changes their philosophy profoundly with the aim of, while maintaining the level of support that has been allocated, facilitating the management of the programmes and bringing the decision-making process closer to the people concerned in the ors. the commission's desire to decentralise decision-making and simplify management arrangements through a participatory methodology and the rapid adaptation of measures to take account of the specificities of these regions is to be welcomed. i therefore agree with the commission's proposal in general, but i believe that some specific points need to be improved and to that end i have adopted some amendments which are part of my report. firstly, i believe that the possibility of exporting or re-shipping processed products which have benefited from the oda should not be restricted, provided that there is no export refund, because the size of the production and the market of the ors alone often does not guarantee the sustainability of local processing industries which are essential for the maintenance of some of the agricultural crops and for allowing some degree of diversification. in some cases, these industries therefore need to supplement their supply with raw materials from abroad and to export or dispatch their products in order to ensure their viability. while i welcome the measures announced by the commission for the outermost regions in the proposal for a revision of the common organization of the market in sugar, i must say that this does not solve a specific issue concerning the production of azorean beet, which involves the sinaga company, which, under the regulation currently in force and the commission's proposal, will have no chance of surviving. secondly, in view of the deadlines laid down in the proposal for a regulation for the submission of programmes and their approval, i believe that the date for their application should be made more flexible so that there is no risk of the current regulation being repealed before the programmes resulting from the new legislation are in force. thirdly, i also think it is important to introduce the possibility of derogations for the ors in the field of rural development, in order to safeguard their specificities and vulnerabilities in this area, thus continuing what is already in force. fourthly, with regard to the historical figures for the definition of financial ceilings, i believe that the reference period 2001 to 2003 is not appropriate for the definition of financial amounts, because it ignores the impact of the changes to the system introduced precisely in the 2001 reform, and therefore my report also suggests, in addition to what i have already mentioned, that the historical figures for exemptions granted under the specific supply scheme should be added to the calculations of the financial ceilings. it should be noted that this approach, while being fairer for the ors, does not inflate the amounts involved in the support currently granted to these regions. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture for their support and the members from the outermost regions in particular who have worked very hard on this process. i also thank the political leaders and representatives of the socioeconomic sectors in these regions for their commitment and help in the preparation of my report. this report, commissioner, was unanimously adopted by the committee on agriculture, so i would draw your attention to this fact at the outset and ask you to take account of the final opinion of the european parliament on this matter, which will be expressed in the vote. i hope that the commission will understand the extreme importance of these issues for the outermost regions and i naturally ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. other i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues (and there were many) from the outermost regions and beyond who were involved in the process leading to the formulation of this opinion. i would like to tell the commission that over the last few years we have already succeeded in reaching very positive conclusions, in particular by improving the provisions of this regulation on issues such as sparkling wine, specific milk quotas in the azores and the fact that we have succeeded in preventing the portuguese government from transferring this quota to the mainland. we are already beginning to understand one extremely difficult issue, which the rapporteur has raised, namely the refining of sugar from beet and cane in the azores. however, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the problem of article 4: the problem of the prohibition of 'processed products' in some language versions and 'products incorporating products which have been imported under this scheme' in other language versions. this is a subject which is extremely poorly dealt with in the commission proposal; it's highly technical, but it's of enormous importance. i would like to ask the commission to do what it has done in other areas: to pay close attention to this problem, to listen to what we have to say, to see in practice what this can mean for these outermost regions, because if it has this attitude, we too will be able to reach a good conclusion. finally, a very special word of thanks to my colleagues in the committee on budgets who have supported a very important strengthening of this programme, a practice which is not always followed in the committee on budgets, but which shows how much this committee takes the interests of the outermost regions into account.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. other i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr duarte freitas, on the quality of his report and, above all, on his willingness to accept the amendments and suggestions of the other committees - all of them - and in particular the committee on regional development, of which i was rapporteur, and also on the work he has done and the way in which he has accepted the suggestions of all the members from the outermost regions, who have worked hard to solve this problem, which affects us all. although the commission proposal for a regulation is positive, some amendments are justified in order to continue to ensure the effectiveness of a measure which has contributed greatly to the development of the regions from the point of view of citizens and businesses and, in particular, the agri-food industries. the first of the suggestions and amendments we have tabled, just to mention the most relevant ones, concerns the annual amounts for the financing of agricultural support measures in the ors, on the understanding that the calculation presented in the commission proposal for 2001-03, as the rapporteur has mentioned, does not seem appropriate because 2001 was a transitional year, a year in which the reform of the posei-agriculture was made, the amendments to which do not appear until 2002, suggesting therefore a three-year period from 2001 to 2004, whichever is more appropriate. the second aspect is the question of exemption from customs duties. it is absurd that the commission proposal ignores this great advantage for the outermost regions and therefore suggests that the values granted in the three-year reference period should be taken into account for the determination of the future ceiling. the third aspect concerns exports. we also believe that, even if we are to satisfy what the commission says in its statement, we must consider the need to create a space for regional integration, we must support the rural world in these regions and, in this sense, we must create conditions so that exports to third countries, logically neighbouring, or to the rest of the community, can be made with products processed and imported under the res, independently, and i know, solving problems of various agro-food industries in all regions and especially in the azores, as was mentioned in relation to the sugar beet industry. it is on these essential points that i would like, and i hope, the commission to take account of the position not only of these members but of parliament.
i would like to congratulate mr duarte freitas on his excellent work, which is reflected in the important report on the proposal for a council regulation adopting specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions. i agree with the rapporteur's position and support it, particularly as regards the flexibility of the management of agricultural support schemes in the outermost regions, with the aim of adopting a participatory and decentralised methodology to ensure that existing measures are adapted quickly, where necessary. it is in the framework of this philosophy that the member states will now submit to the commission a programme for each of the outermost regions covering the two axes of posei-agriculture, namely the specific supply scheme and the scheme to support local production. each programme, which should include a description of the current situation of agricultural activity, weaknesses and potential, proposed strategy, impact and timing, will enable each outermost region to define its agricultural development strategy in accordance with its specific needs. this will finally allow due account to be taken of the dual insularity felt by producers and operators on some of the islands which make up certain outermost regions. i also welcome the rapporteur's suggestions for the development of an effective policy for small and mediumsized enterprises in the agri-food sector in the outermost regions, and i stress the positive effects of this measure on the agricultural sector itself, on employment and on trade. i would like to conclude by saying that this is a good example of the application of the principle of the outermost regions enshrined in article 299 (2) of the treaty. in the context of agricultural and supply policies, special treatment is provided for, adapted to the very specific situation of the outermost regions, and this special treatment has been improved and strengthened in the light of the experience gained from the implementation of the posei programmes. this is indeed an exemplary procedure which should be followed in adapting the other common policies of the european union to the specificities of the outermost regions.
on behalf of the pse group. i especially greet you and all the members of this parliament on behalf of myself and my comrade and friend capoulas santos. given their specific conditions - remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult climates, economic dependence on a small number of products - all of which seriously hamper their development, the outermost regions enjoy special protection under article 299 of the treaty, which it is imperative and urgent to give the widest possible practical expression. this is also reflected in the successive positions adopted by the european parliament, the deliberations of the seville european council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, and the conclusions of the third report on economic and social cohesion. the commission has timely presented a communication on the establishment of a strategy for the outermost regions, called 'a strengthened partnership', which deserves to be assessed positively. the report now before us is part of the implementation of this strategy and concerns the proposal for a council regulation adopting specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the outermost regions, a sector of the greatest importance for these regions, which represents a qualitative advance in this field which must also be recognized. the initiative can and must, however, be greatly improved and the report by mr duarte freitas, whom i also welcome for the commitment and attitude he has shown in the preparation of his work, can make a very significant contribution to this improvement. my greeting and acknowledgement obviously extend to all the members who have actively participated and made relevant contributions to finding the most appropriate solutions to the specific circumstances of each outermost region, with special emphasis on the authors of the opinions of the committee on budgets, mr paulo casaca, member of the committee on regional development, mr manuel jardim fernandes, and mr francisco assis, member of the committee on international trade. although this proposal for a regulation does not provide for a change in the sources of funding or the intensity of support, it will nevertheless make it possible to introduce greater flexibility in the application of the different measures and a better adaptation to the specificity of each of the regions concerned, together with a desirable increase in participation in the decision-making process, which deserves the full support of the european socialist party. the european commission's proposal is, however, lacking in many aspects and is lacking in many aspects. we now have the opportunity to do so, on the basis of the broad consensus that has been reached on the proposals adopted by the committee on agriculture, and also taking into account the opinions adopted by the other committees. there are therefore more than enough reasons for us to appeal to members of parliament from all political groups to express, by voting on the relevant amendments, their solidarity with some of the most problematic regions of the european union, which we want to see economically and socially cohesive. we are confident that the european parliament, like the commission, which we also call upon to accept the most relevant proposals voted on here, will be able to respond to the legitimate expectations of the people and authorities of the outermost regions. we have seen some of commissioner michel's openness today, let us see if it will be widened in the future. the objectives clearly and objectively set out in the preamble to the proposal for a council regulation under discussion, with which we are in full agreement, can only be better and more rapidly achieved in this way. we must work effectively to strengthen europe's economic, social and territorial cohesion.
i would just like to inform commissioner louis michel that he is completely wrong about the decision of the court of justice of the european communities, which referred the matter to the portuguese courts. i shall be glad to offer the judgment of the portuguese supreme court of justice, which says precisely the opposite of what the commission continues to claim, seemingly not knowing the reason of justice which is absolutely clear and unequivocal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission intends to amend regulation 1453/2001 in order to apply the principles of the reform to these specific agricultural aid schemes for the outermost regions of the european union. the decentralisation proposed (by creating greater responsibilities for the regional authorities) is a positive step, but it is also essential to safeguard the specific interests of each region, taking into account the different dates of accession and significantly increasing the budget allocation. the 2001/2003 base for the reference period cannot be accepted, since 2001 was the transition year. the restrictions on exports to third countries and on the dispatch to the rest of the community of products covered by the specific supply arrangements should be amended, which have contributed to the strangulation of the local agri-food industry, such as the azores sugar, whose production must be made viable. but the same is true of other agricultural and food production, traditional industries and local crafts. as regards the specific supply arrangements, particular attention should be paid to the vine and banana sectors in madeira, not forgetting milk in the azores and the special measures to support farmers in the purchase of fertilisers and agricultural pesticides. that is why i support the report.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on zimbabwe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. today.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the trafficking of children in guatemala.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. today.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in ethiopia.
no, mr president, i regret to say that it is not as an author but as a member of this parliament and as head of the european union election observation mission in ethiopia, in an election which has allowed the expression of the forces of the opposition and of the whole of ethiopian society as never before, that prime minister meles zenawi should be credited. international observation, in which our mission was the most important in terms of size and professional investment, was decisive in instilling confidence in the process in the electorate, and so they turned out en masse and over 90% voted. the delegation sent by this parliament heard the repeated applause of these voters when they lined up on 15 may, and that is why the electoral mission of the european union feels a heavy responsibility. the ethiopian people must not be disappointed in their expectations by genuine results in the elections and will not be disappointed with the collaboration of this mission. no one can now claim to know the election results, because the process has become seriously complicated at the counting, tabling and aggregation stage. the delays in the publication of the results were compounded by a profusion of complaints from all parties, including the government. social unrest arising from these delays and complaints was at the origin of the dramatic events of 6, 7 and 8 june, on which the mission immediately took a public position. we urge, then and now, an independent inquiry; urge the government, in particular, to release those detained in violation of constitutional guarantees and human rights, freedom of action for elected candidates and other opposition representatives and human rights defenders, freedom of the official media and access to them by opposition representatives; we also call on the opposition, then and now, to refrain from, discourage and help to disrupt any attempts at demonstrations or calls for insurrection or breaking of constitutional legality or fomenting inter-ethnic conflicts which would ultimately serve only those who have no interest in the genuine results of the popular vote being ascertained and who would therefore not hesitate to use any pretext to force the breakdown of the electoral process, risking even throwing the country into a spiral of violence and economic and political chaos; we urge both the government and the opposition to strictly implement the agreement of 10 june, sponsored by the main donors, including the member states of the european union, with a view to clarifying the complaints. and here i pay tribute to the commission representative who has played and is playing a magnificent role in this work in addis ababa. our mission has been restructured to meet the request of both parties to observe this complaint investigation process and so next week i will be back in addis ababa. i conclude, mr president, by saying that the situation is extremely fragile and very, very dangerous. the risk of civil war is not rhetorical. i have just received news that the main opposition force announced this morning that it is withdrawing from the process of investigating complaints of alleged obstruction of its representatives. therefore, any expression of interest in the ethiopian process, however constructive and legitimate it may be, as this initiative of the european parliament certainly is, can be misinterpreted or be misused by those who have an interest in bringing about the breakdown of the process of democratization in ethiopia. my role as head of the election observation mission is not over. it's independent and it's not over. i therefore ask the house to understand that i feel it is my duty not to take part in the vote on this resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the vote will take place now. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i am sorry, i did not vote for my report, but i would like to record this positive vote, of course.
the vote is closed.
in writing. the specific nature of agriculture and the supply of markets in the outermost regions is clear and has been rightly recognised by the european union. in this context, and in the light of recent experience, i believe that the essence of the commission's proposal, particularly in the area of greater flexibility, runs counter to portuguese interests, which are very significant in this respect, since our outermost regions - the azores and madeira - must deserve our particular attention, since they have a very specific situation, particularly in the field of agriculture.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 6 p.m.)
the matter is relatively simple: the committee on foreign affairs will probably adopt a report on eu-syria relations as soon as next week, and therefore a separate resolution on that report does not seem appropriate at this stage. on the other hand, as regards belarus, in august several members of this european parliament were prevented from entering belarus, and this comes at a time when attacks on independent media, journalists, opposition members and ngos have increased in a frightening way. in addition, several opponents and resistance fighters of the belarusian government, as well as foreign journalists and leaders of the union of poles in belarus, were also detained. for all these reasons we think it would be important to change the urgent debate on relations with syria to the subject of the situation in belarus.
the recent statements by commissioner peter mandelson, who echoes the interests of the major distributors and retailers in the european union, announcing his intention to allow the entry of tens of millions of textile products currently held up in customs for exceeding the quantities defined in the agreement with the people's republic of china, are worrying and unacceptable. how necessary it would have been for the commissioner to have shown the same commitment to the defence of european textile production, for example by activating the safeguard clauses, when many months ago it faced (and continues to face) a veritable flood of imports! it should be stressed that the current situation shows who in the european union is really gaining from the liberalisation of textile trade: the large importers and distributors who are increasing their profit margins to ever more disproportionate levels. it's very much about: the european union's objective is to defend the textile and clothing industry in the european union, avoiding the destruction of many thousands of businesses and jobs, with their very serious economic and social consequences.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by endorsing the words of the president of parliament at the beginning of this sitting, expressing my sympathy, also on behalf of the whole socialist group, for the victims of all these disasters. secondly, i would like to thank all the members from all political groups and all political groups who have expressed to us, and in particular to us portuguese socialists, their solidarity with the people who have been victims of the disasters, particularly the drought and the fires, which are - at this very moment - destroying the west of the iberian peninsula and, in particular, portugal. i would like to remind you that what is happening to the portuguese forest is, in terms of scale, something that has no parallel in the whole world, no parallel in the amazon, no parallel anywhere else. the deforestation of recent decades is of an absolutely catastrophic scale and we cannot ignore the scale of this catastrophe. we have to consider the seriousness of the problem, we have to look at the whole range of measures that have to be taken to deal with this situation; we must analyse the operation of the solidarity fund, we must examine why it has not been able to help fight fires, for example, and why it has not been able to provide financial support for the planes needed to fight fires. we must look at the agricultural question, as our colleague galeote quecedo has already said, and very well, because this catastrophe is part of a drought of enormous proportions; and we have to look at forestry policy to support a forest that is more in line with the climatic characteristics of the western peninsula. (applause) i would like to thank
we welcome the timing of this debate, as we proposed at the beginning of august. so far, in a context of extreme and severe drought, about 200 000 hectares of forest have been burned in portugal and more than 120 000 hectares in spain, causing the loss of dozens of lives, including firefighters, the destruction of homes, agricultural and industrial facilities, profound attacks on the ecosystems of protected areas, as well as heavy emotional costs that nothing, and no one, will compensate, so we want to express our deepest regret and our solidarity with the families of the deceased and the populations of the affected regions, as well as our tribute to the selflessness of the firefighters and the populations who mobilized to fight the fires. given the gravity of the situation, the european commission should rapidly step up its cooperation with national authorities in support of the population, minimising the consequences of fires and floods, and all national public aid initiatives aimed at restoring the productive potential of the affected regions, creating jobs and compensating for the social costs of the loss of jobs and sources of income, in particular by activating the solidarity fund for the affected areas and countries, promoting, if necessary, its urgent amendment, facilitating community administrative procedures, in particular those relating to the programming needs of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, as well as the flexibility of the processing of these sectors, supporting reforestation of the affected areas respecting their bio-ecological and ecological characteristics, as well as supporting measures to prevent forest fires, in order to take account of the problem of red lines in the forestry sector, such as direct access to water, and to grant financial aid to farmers in order to rapidly implement certain points of the cap, such as the payment of the agricultural, forestry, water and financial aid to farmers in all the areas affected by the implementation of article 87 (2) of the treaty. finally, the urgent need to establish an effective protection system at community level to protect farmers, especially small and mediumsized farmers, against the risks and crises arising from the current situation of drought, fire and floods, such as the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by community funds, which will guarantee their minimum income in the event of such public disasters.
mr president, i should like to say that i take up the words of the president of parliament and those of my colleagues gerardo galeote, paulo casaca and pedro guerreiro, who have clearly outlined the general picture of the situation and with whom i basically agree. i therefore take this opportunity, commissioner, to address myself directly to you. in addition to the humanitarian and technical issues, we have a political issue. the political question is whether the european institutions, and the commission in particular, have the capacity to set an unambiguous example of what european cooperation can be, of what european solidarity means for the many people affected. in the country i know best, portugal, i will tell you that there is nothing that i could do more for europe at this time than to respond quickly and effectively to the affected populations, who are many throughout my country. a technically good, technically perfect answer a year from now is worse than a politically sensible answer now. that is my message, i hope that the commission will be able to make this proposal, i hope that the european parliament, in its temporary committee, will put the pressure on and give the necessary help to make this happen. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest portuguese poet defined love in a verse as 'a fire that burns without being seen'. i'm here today to talk about other fires that are burning and that you can see. and they cause despair because they spread sadness, because they confirm helplessness, because they spread terror, because they multiply anguish, because they kill, because they destroy wealth, because they undermine confidence in the present and hope for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the catastrophic forest fires have, so far, already produced truly frightening figures: another 240,000 acres burned! just yesterday, the highway no. 1 linking lisbon to porto was closed to traffic for hours because of a fire that raged near fatima. at the same time, blazes continued to rage in the districts of aveiro, bragança, guarda, leiria, santarém and viseu. in my district of coimbra, the worst hit, the fires have consumed, in the municipality of pampilhosa da serra alone, 32 km2, leaving only 8 km2 of forest. it is a county that has been absolutely decimated, almost wiped off the map. in the city of coimbra itself, the fire crossed the mondego river, entered well within the urban perimeter, and destroyed everything in its path. the flames traveled 20 kilometers in three hours. the canas valley national forest has been destroyed by about 80%. other municipalities in the district were brutally hit: miranda do corvo, whose municipal assembly he presided over, penela, poiares, penacova and soure, among others. in certain portuguese regions, we are faced with a catastrophic situation, where a large part of the population has been affected and economic stability is threatened (the forest patch is indeed important for the local and regional economy). the picture is unequivocal in the exceptional conditions that commissioner danuta hübner has admitted as possible for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. the same scenario was and is being experienced this summer in spain, france and greece, which have also been hit by devastating impacts. the fight against disasters must be a priority for the european union. going back to portugal. in addition to forest fires, drought is a problem that already affects 100% of the continent: more than 80% in extreme drought and about 20% in severe drought. it's too much! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe we are building is also, and above all, a space of solidarity. solidarity must be activated, even if the strict letter of the legislation does not match the harsh reality we are facing. because there's always more to life than the regulations. let us eradicate the lack of love, the sadness, the impotence, the terror, the anguish, the death, the destruction of wealth. we raise the flags of trust in the present and hope for the future. it is necessary and urgent to reduce the damage caused by fires and drought in portugal. the portuguese citizens are confidently awaiting a significant gesture of support from the rest of the european citizens, a gesture to be materialized by the community institutions. that is the only way to have a bigger and better europe. that is the only way europe will be fulfilled!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have been following this terrible drama of forest fires closely since the end of july. in addition to widespread destruction, it throws panic and kills. there have already been 18 fatalities in portugal, and i am reminded of pedro figueiredo, a dedicated firefighter from oliveira de azeméis, who will no longer be able to vote in the local elections next october, in which he was a candidate in his vast civic and community dedication. the threat of large-scale fires is not over, it continues. just last night, coming from the interior to come here, i passed the great fire of sardoal that still burns at this time. this year we knew that this would be the case, not only because of the experience of previous years and the weather forecasts, but because the vulnerability of our forests and woodlands was now increased by drought, another plague that has afflicted my country and its rural world for many months. in april, in the debate and in the resolution of this parliament, of which i was one of the drafters, the risk was clearly foreseen and indicated. that is why it was so surprising to see the initial surprise in the response and some national hesitations. the decision taken by the european council of ministers last june to end the subsidy for firefighters is also surprising. it is an absolutely wrong decision in itself and particularly absurd in a year like this. the chronic problem of forest fires creates a deep sense of disbelief, of unsustainability, of abandonment, of contempt for the portuguese rural world. our forest is one of our great national assets and its particular vulnerability has many causes - all of which we have to address. so as party chairman i have already defined the purpose of establishing a national forest protection agenda and the desire to compete with others for its tenacious and continued implementation until we reach a stage of safety. but it is important to look at its european implications and the reasons why it is necessary to strengthen european involvement in these tasks - the reason for the great vulnerability of the portuguese forest lies in the desertification of the fields, the profound and sudden demographic change in our rural world and the sudden abandonment of agriculture and traditional uses in vast regions. i am not saying that the cap is a good thing. the cap was never designed for mediterranean realities and so there is a growing need for european solidarity in the task of rebuilding and reorganizing our forest. the resolution we are presenting points in that direction, and that is where we must go. we must also set up a temporary committee of inquiry in our parliament to improve our knowledge of these realities. i would like to thank the president of the commission for the way in which he has responded by letter to another letter which i myself had addressed to him, giving assurances that the commission will not fail to help my country and those most affected; i am sorry that the council is not here, which is a very bad sign in the face of such a tragedy in our europe. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group the protection of the health and safety of workers has already been the subject of several directives on vibration, noise and electromagnetic fields. it is therefore not clear that there are epp-ed and liberal members who oppose the adoption of measures to increase the protection of workers exposed to natural sources of optical radiation by imposing an obligation on employers to assess the risks to health and safety so that the necessary measures to reduce these risks can be identified and implemented, in particular through an action plan with technical and/or organisational measures aimed at minimising the risks to health and safety. that is what they have done, for example, in the committee on employment, as has already been mentioned, with articles 4 (2) and 5 (2), thus trying to avoid the proposal covering workers in the field of optical radiation. we, of course, consider that the protection of the health and safety of workers is fundamental and therefore we consider the commitment of the council presidency to be at least correct. of course, member states may take into account the nature of the activities and the sun exposure and define specific criteria for carrying out this risk assessment. but it is important that there are minimum values which take account of the world trade organisation data which indicate that thousands of people are dying in europe from skin cancer and that it is increasing throughout the european union, so it is important to protect workers in agriculture, construction, tourism, public safety, basically all those who work outdoors. that is why we have also put forward proposals to restore this position of defending minimum wages for all workers in the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. other one of the most controversial debates in this proposal for the creation of the new community programme for employment and social solidarity (progress) was about the inclusion of equality between men and women in a single social programme, bearing in mind that the issue of equality is not just social. we have therefore sought, through the committee on women's rights and gender equality, to find a compromise between the need to give greater visibility to the fight for effective equality between men and women and the european commission's proposal, by establishing a better link between concrete actions and existing directives. in this context, the creation of the future european gender institute is also of particular importance, since it should have greater powers, its own financial resources and a higher level of funding than the one proposed by the executive committee. most of the proposals we have approved in the committee on women's rights are covered, at least in part, in the report by mrs karin jöns, whom i commend for her work. i would stress the increase in community co-financing to a 90% basis, taking into account the difficulties of ngos and other social organisations working in these areas, as well as the increase in the financial framework to eur 854.2 million for the seven-year period from january 2007 and the change in the financial breakdown between the different strands. this programme must pay effective attention to the protection and social inclusion of immigrants, people with disabilities, the unemployed, children and young people, the elderly, and must pay particular attention to working conditions and employment, the fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity. i would stress, however, that it is essential that the principle of gender mainstreaming, of equality between men and women, be taken into account in all aspects and measures of the progress programme and in all programmes using community funds so that women are not the victims of multiple discrimination and so that there is no regression in the policy of equality between men and women in the various areas.
in view of the request of several members who would approve the amendment as amended - although we think the current wording is more correct - i propose that our amendment no 9 be replaced by the following: 'it notes that the abolition of quotas in the textile and clothing sector could have serious consequences for the less-favoured regions and could contribute to a decline in regional gdp per capita, a situation which requires an appropriate response.'
in writing. the commission proposal responds to the need to recast regulation (eec) no 2075/92, which has become obsolete following the adoption of council regulation (ec) no 1782/2003. this new regulation is the result of the implementation of the second cap reform package agreed in april 2004. for reasons of legal clarity and transparency, several articles and the annex should therefore be deleted due to the abolition of the premium and production control schemes and the transfer of the content of some articles and the annex to the detailed implementing rules to be adopted in the field of raw tobacco. for the sake of legal consistency, the commission proposal is appropriate and the favourable opinion of the committee on agriculture should be supported by the european parliament.
in writing. the commission proposes to amend regulation no 2092/91 on organic production of agricultural products and their identification in products and foodstuffs. as the commission proposed in its communication on the european action plan for organic food and agriculture to replace the current national import derogation with a permanent system using technical equivalence assessments carried out by bodies designated by the community, sufficient time is needed to develop the new permanent system. the proposed amendment is therefore relevant and the favourable opinion of the committee on agriculture should be supported by the european parliament.
in writing. the importance of the predictability and stability of trade rules and, above all, the absence of legal loopholes which impede good trade fully justifies my vote in favour of this report. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the list of countries whose products are covered by the community tariff quota is updated in accordance with the rules of the common organization of the market in wine.
in writing. we reaffirm our position of principle against the militarization of space or its use for military purposes. we therefore reject and criticise the use of the european satellite navigation programme - galileo - for military or security purposes, as is currently planned. on the basis of the principle set out above, we think that this system could be used as an alternative to the gps (global positioning systems) system dominated by the usa. it should be remembered that the united states blocked access to this system in order to use it fully in its military aggressions against yugoslavia and iraq. it should be stressed that the galileo system is of interest to countries such as china and india, which could become partners in this project, helping to end the gps monopoly and creating, as an alternative, a project based on broad international cooperation. this is a project which should be used for peaceful purposes, in the framework of international cooperation, with due respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. a project which should be aimed at public service in the field of its multiple applications.
in writing. the galileo programme is far from being a mere research project. it is now of great strategic importance to europe as the world's first radio navigation and satellite positioning system designed specifically for civilian purposes. i voted in favour of the report by mrs etelka barsi-pataky (a6-0212/2005) on the development and operation of the european satellite radio navigation programme. the guidelines in this report seek to manage satisfactorily financial issues, intellectual property issues and also mechanisms of democratic control. it is of the utmost importance that the programme is carried out in a well-defined framework, given the new nature of the programme's implementation through a public-private partnership. finally, i believe that this programme will have profoundly positive consequences and will influence the daily lives of citizens in line with the lisbon strategy, as it will create a considerable number of jobs in europe and strengthen european competitiveness through the technology and knowledge accumulated in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of lebanon on certain aspects of air services. the various bilateral agreements in the field of air services are the main instruments for ensuring the proper functioning of our relations with third countries, especially as regards air safety issues. the council therefore authorized the commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to amending certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements by means of a community agreement, the court of justice of the european communities having recognised the exclusive competence of the community in this matter. in this case, with the lebanese republic, the amendments proposed by parliament are of a corrective nature and deal with taxes on aviation fuel, designation clauses and tariffs, matters to which we have no objection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and georgia on certain aspects of air services. the various bilateral agreements in the field of air services are the main instruments for ensuring the proper functioning of our relations with third countries, especially as regards air safety issues. the council therefore authorized the commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to amending certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements by means of a community agreement, the court of justice of the european communities having recognised the exclusive competence of the community in this matter. in this case with georgia, the amendments proposed by parliament are of a corrective nature and deal with taxes on aviation fuel, designation clauses and tariffs, matters to which we have no objection.
in writing. the commission proposal is essentially timely and follows on from a series of measures which have been taken to modernise the system of monitoring fishing vessels in the eu. i believe that the work done by the committee on fisheries in this parliament has brought a major contribution to the final text. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) was adopted on 14 december. i also believe that the use of vds systems and the introduction of an electronic logbook are measures which will help not only to monitor fishing areas better but also to contribute to a better and more accurate management of fish stocks by facilitating the procedures involved in the collection and sharing of fishing information. the amendments proposed by the ep, since they are in line with the realities of the various member states, seem to me to deserve the favourable vote of this institution.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to introduce a compulsory electronic system for recording and transmitting data on fishing activities, requiring member states to equip their fisheries monitoring centres with technology compatible with the vessel remote sensing system (vsd) and requiring vessels of more than 15 metres overall length to be equipped with an automatic tracking device to monitor their fishing activities via a satellite vessel tracking system (vms). the aim is to achieve the control and management objectives set out in the 2002 review of the common fisheries policy. we have always had doubts about the introduction of this system, firstly as regards the question of respect for sovereignty, but also as regards the cost and effectiveness of the system itself. the results of the implementation of the impast pilot project at national level confirm our concerns about the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the system, despite the overall assessment of the commission. in any event, it is imperative that the implementation of the system not only respects the specificities of the different fleets and eezs, but also that there is community funding to cover the investment and training costs involved.
in writing. i congratulate mr paulo casaca on his excellent report on the proposal for a council regulation on the electronic recording and transmission of data on fishing activities and on remote sensing systems, which i support. this initiative should be supported. it will improve the quality of data and the efficiency of fisheries management.
in writing. the usefulness and importance of this proposal for a council regulation deserves the support of all those who believe that the protection of fisheries resources is in the interest of all, particularly fishermen and economies where fishing is of great importance. it is not enough for a proposal to be useful, it must also be reasonable and feasible. that is the tone of many amendments tabled by the rapporteur and others, which justify support for this report, the version of which is frankly more fair, reasonable and workable than the council's version. for these reasons, and in particular in view of the national interests, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. readmission agreements concluded between the european community and third countries are of fundamental importance in the european strategy to combat illegal immigration. the fourth readmission agreement has been negotiated and concluded between the european community and albania, following the readmission agreements already concluded with hong kong, macao and sri lanka, and is due to enter into force by the end of this year. this agreement lays down the obligation for albania to readmit its nationals illegally staying in the territory of the member states and reciprocally imposes on the union the obligation to readmit nationals of member states illegally staying in the territory of albania. i voted in favour of this report recommending the conclusion of this agreement and i am in solidarity with the rapporteur, mrs ewa klamt, whose excellent work i cannot fail to underline, in her concern to draw attention from the outset to the problems that albania is certain to face in implementing this agreement and to the need to support this country in this effort. we will also have to pay special attention to the issues of support for reintegration with a view to a sustainable return.
in writing. immigration issues are now of the greatest importance and deserve the greatest attention from us, both as politicians and as citizens in general. it is clear that the existence of an economic and social model which, despite its difficulties, is a case of obvious relative success, acts - as in the history of migration always has - as a pole of attraction. the pursuit of a better life is human and should be respected. but that does not mean that a successful economic and social system can withstand all migratory pressures. for that reason, there must be rules and there must be a way to enforce them. otherwise we would be promoting organised rape, the formation of illegal economic organisations that offer an illegal service. it is with humanism and realism that we respond to the questions of migration. the report we are debating is a realistic and humane solution, and it should also be a sign. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the idea of dissociating external aid from the community is defensible and has been advocated by this parliament. it turns out that a good idea should not produce a bad result. whether it is simply because it is illogical to promote competition solely in one's own interests - and even more so when it is conducted unfairly or without respect for rules which we consider to be fundamental - or because the aim of granting aid must be to promote development and not to promote developed economies and our competitors, it is fair to consider that the amendments proposed by this report should merit our agreement. it makes perfect sense to link development aid to the indirect financing of developing regional economies. in that case we shall be promoting the doubling of the effectiveness of the aid granted. but when that only serves to promote developed economies and our competitors, it is clear that we are only financing those who do not need financing. in this context, and in view of the most relevant aspects of the report in question, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. we voted in favour of most of the proposals in this report, which is a second reading of the directive which aims to introduce quality environmental legislation which will, as the rapporteur says, make it possible to improve the sustainability of production, reduce waste production, encourage long-term investment and promote companies which pursue a serious environmental policy. the aim is to improve the community legal situation applicable to the extractive industry, which is of great interest to portugal. the council accepted several of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading. some of the proposals which were not accepted by the council have now been put back and other proposals have been clarified. i think it is important that there should also be an inventory of the waste that has been left over from the past and that measures should be taken if this waste is an environmental problem. we hope that the council will now be receptive to most of the proposals put forward.
in writing. the lisbon european council set a new strategic objective for the union: to become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economic area in the world, capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. the social policy agenda constitutes the union's roadmap in the social and employment field as part of the overall lisbon strategy. in this context, the european commission has stressed the importance of simplifying and rationalising the current situation, proposing in particular the creation of an integrated programme for employment and social solidarity (progress). the progress programme is the new community programme which integrates the four programmes currently implementing the social policy agenda and a set of budget lines relating to working conditions. as regards the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, i agree with the increase in the financial framework, the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in monitoring and implementing the programme and the involvement of the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
in writing. the recent developments in the textile and clothing sector in the eu confirm the validity of our criticisms of the way in which the council and the european commission have conducted the negotiations, and the appropriateness of our proposals in defence of this important productive sector, particularly for portugal. the so-called memorandum of understanding of 10 june on restricting textile imports served to avoid the triggering of the safeguard clauses, after the european commission had done everything it could to minimise the impact of this measure. anticipating the agreement and its entry into force, large multinational retailers and importing groups soon tried to challenge it. the commission (durão barroso) immediately backed the proposal, which, by proposing to release the millions of items held by customs, simply breached its earlier commitments. we regret that the important proposals we have put forward to defend this productive sector in the eu have been rejected by the ep. despite the inclusion in the resolution of proposals drawn up by the committee on regional development, such as the creation of a community programme to support the sector, the resolution remains marked by the defence of the liberalisation of the sector. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the liberalization of the textile market since 1 january this year has had a profoundly negative effect on the european textile industry, particularly the portuguese industry. even if we defend the virtues of a capitalist economy and an open market, we must understand that if we do not defend the interests of our industries with competitive potential - and there are several cases of competitive potential in the portuguese textile industry - we will soon be faced with a consumer country that produces nothing. and those who do not produce cannot consume. it is in this context that we must understand the questions raised by the opening up of the textile market. if competition is affected by practices which are considered illegal in our economy - such as the disregard of basic workers' rights - we cannot act as if nothing is happening and open up markets to such competition. if we cannot allow this to happen within our own market, we cannot allow it to happen when competition comes from outside. this is the position i have presented and which, in defence of portuguese interests but also european interests, i will maintain.
in writing. the importance of television in our society is all too evident and well known. in this context, it is worth considering whether the rules of a liberal economy are merely being applied or whether there are factors which justify regulatory intervention to protect the interests of the community. language is undoubtedly one of the defining elements of a community, cultural production, cultural goods, are one of the most visible expressions of a community. for these reasons, some form of regulation - other than state intervention to influence tastes, choices or preferences - can be considered valid if it guarantees the necessary space for the cultural expression of any community. but we cannot fall into the conceptual and analytical error of thinking that it is by imposing a limitation on cultural access that national culture is promoted. the balance between promoting sufficient space for the dissemination of cultural production is not equivalent to imposing cultural consumption or - more seriously - limiting choices. by not crossing this border we guarantee the defence of the interests of a community without limiting individual and creative freedoms.
mr president, we are faced with a budget in which the discrepancy between the union's aspirations and its discourse on employment and social affairs is evident, as is the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy itself and the funds allocated to its implementation. while i welcome the commission's decision to bring forward the pilot project for the european year of workers' mobility, i am pessimistic that at first reading the council will reduce the appropriations proposed in the preliminary draft by eur 2 million. with a budget already low, this reduction does not mean that there is an explicit lack of political will to make this pilot project a success story and not just a one-off campaign. i also think that the modest allocations for eures, which is an essential instrument for the development of the single european labour market, are regrettable, which is a discrimination against the amounts requested and obtained by parliament in 2005. the budget for the social dialogue is also reduced compared with the preliminary draft, which is contrary to the position taken by the european parliament. the european social fund also sees its proposals reduced. how can we hope to achieve a more social and competitive europe? it is certainly impossible!
the excellent report by mrs marielle de sarnez confronts this house with a problem which is far from being solved and will take a long time to be solved satisfactorily, even though the adoption of the proposed recommendation could represent very significant progress in this area. the protection of minors and human dignity is raising more and more problems and increasingly requires both firm intervention and appropriate pedagogy among the various actors in the circuits concerned. it requires the assumption of specific responsibilities, the exchange of experience of good practice and close cooperation between all the entities involved. but we may wonder if that will be enough. for example, whether the functioning of self- and co-regulation mechanisms can be expected to provide a truly satisfactory solution to the problem. this implies a genuine revolution in the mindsets of the competitive and content-producing sectors, with a view to rejecting illegal and harmful products which are increasingly invading all forms of audiovisual and so-called online services. this is a matter which involves areas as diverse as the protection of human rights, the formation of personality, family and school education, the building of citizenship, and, finally, democracy and freedom itself. the subject matter of this recommendation should therefore involve, at various levels and from various perspectives, european and national authorities, the audiovisual industry, internet providers and users and, in general, those responsible who deal most directly with children, such as parents, educators and teachers. but this also implies technological developments and improvements which make it possible to make the measures covered by the recommendation really effective: from flagging to filtering, from classification to a concrete assessment of the legality or illegality of the practices. it is also a question of getting the children themselves involved, of making available to them the means of defence, of mobilizing the associations for the protection of children and their peers, and of providing training and school learning which takes this problem into account. secondly, it is a question of promoting delicate and complex forms of self-regulation, critical exercise and civic awareness on the part of institutions and industries. this is the most difficult point in my view, because it involves a profound change in attitudes and behaviour in an era of fierce competition and profit-seeking. and finally, it is a question of introducing changes in national laws which will allow all the factors i have just mentioned to be combined and harmoniously applied in order to achieve, at least in part, the desired result. i hope it can become a reality at a not too distant date. for all these reasons, mr president, i think we should congratulate our colleague, marielle de sarnez, and vote in favour of the report in question.
mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission. i agree with minister clark when he said that the fight against terrorism must be one of the priorities of the european union. it constitutes one of the most serious threats to democracy, human rights and economic and social development. the terrorist threat affects us all. any terrorist act against a member state should be seen and felt as an attack on the european union as a whole and on the common values which form the basis of our civilization. the union should therefore take all the necessary measures in a spirit of solidarity to protect effectively the rights and freedoms of its citizens and, in particular, the rights and freedoms of its citizens. the level of organisation of terrorist networks, coupled with their ability to operate across borders, requires strong and effective responses, requiring a high level of cooperation and coordination at both national and international level. the security issues, in the face of the remaining terrorist attacks, take on a new urgency. there should be effective measures that are effectively implemented by member states and should include enhanced operational cooperation, checks at external borders, including the establishment of the second generation of the sis (schengen information system), the security of travel documents by making them more secure and integrating biometric data, the prevention of terrorist financing, the intensification of information exchange and the exploitation of the efficiency of information systems for a more effective use of europol, and the establishment of common measures, both in terms of prevention and preparedness and consequence management, among others. we are also continuing to strive for swift and just forms of support and assistance for the victims of terrorism, who are the innocent hostages of inhuman violence. we therefore expect the commission to submit proposals as soon as possible for prevention, protection and also combating them. i welcome the statement by vice-president fratini on the forthcoming presentation of initiatives in the field of critical infrastructure and personal data protection. i would like to conclude by stressing that this fight for greater security can only be waged within the framework of the rule of law, respecting the fundamental freedoms and protecting the fundamental rights of citizens. the recent example in london, where a young brazilian man was killed by police error, is a reminder that if our societies tolerate barbarism, the terrorists have achieved their goal: to destroy our societies and our framework of values.
following the brutal attacks in london, which we strongly condemned - just as we unequivocally condemn all forms of terrorism, including state terrorism - and on the pretext of them, there is a new offensive at eu level to justify new and unacceptable violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, while deliberately concealing, for example, that the policy of aggression and military occupation in iraq, palestine or afghanistan are in themselves factors that feed terrorism. among other measures, the proposal is again put forward, which is disproportionate and of questionable effectiveness, to monitor and retain data and information collected from telephone and e-mail communications in a european database, and which, it seems, will be carried out without any monitoring. the reality is that the security offensive has failed to achieve its stated objectives, and has, above all, jeopardized the rights and guarantees of citizens. in the name of this security offensive, jean charles menezes, a brazilian citizen who was on his way to his workplace in london, was brutally and unacceptably murdered by british police forces - applying their policy of shooting first and asking questions later.
in writing. the report in question and, in particular, the motion for a resolution contained in it, deserve our taking this opportunity to applaud the speed and spirit of solidarity and responsibility with which the european union acted in the wake of the tsunami disaster in december last year. of course, the only vote that is possible on this occasion is a vote in favour.
in writing. portugal is well aware of the usefulness and the need to use this fund when the disasters that affect us take on a dimension that calls for solidarity from the union and our other partners. for this reason, in view of the necessary technical assessments and in the knowledge that slovakia has submitted a request for compensation for the damage caused by the storm of 19 and 20 november 2004, it is our duty to support this mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. this proposal for a revision of the 2000-06 financial framework follows the reform of the cap, adopted by the council in september 2003, which provides for a reduction in direct payments (heading 1a), the so-called 'modulation', to finance rural development policy (heading 1b). this proposal raises some fundamental questions about the cap and agricultural expenditure. we do not deny the need to grant and increase structural support to the rural world. in the discussion on the cap reform and the new financial framework 2007-13, we put forward concrete proposals to increase rural development appropriations, in particular as regards compensatory allowances and organic farming. but this cannot be done at the expense of the market pillar of the cap or in the framework of a philosophy of replacing it by rural development, as envisaged by the british presidency. the transfer of funds from the market pillar to rural development is a veiled way of introducing co-financing, i.e. the renationalisation of cap costs. this proposal also undermines the principles of modulation and capping which should contribute to a fairer redistribution of aid between countries, production and farmers, i.e. cutting aid to large farmers... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. i voted in favour of mr garriga-polledo's report. this parliament has committed itself to reacting urgently to meet the needs of rehabilitation and reconstruction following the devastating tsunami of 26 december 2004. we must therefore equip ourselves with the means to meet the challenges, while safeguarding the development programmes in progress and, of course, without jeopardizing our other priorities. in this respect, i consider that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2005 in the amount of eur 15 million to finance reconstruction and rehabilitation measures in the countries affected by the tsunami is an appropriate measure and one that i should support.
in writing. this report deals with the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2004 budget. the under-implementation of payment appropriations is one of the main components of the final balance of the 2004 budget. compared with previous years, the implementation of structural fund programmes has improved considerably, but the challenges facing the eu today are not matched by this under-implementation. in particular, in pre-accession aid, we believe that this could pose serious problems in the near future. it is therefore essential that the commission improves implementation in 2005 so that we can have results that significantly reduce the union surplus. finally, i voted in favour of mr garriga polledo's report, not objecting in particular to his well-adjusted comments.
in writing. it is regrettable that the majority - particularly the epp and the liberals - in the european parliament have taken a position on solar radiation, rejecting the proposals to encourage employers to assess the health and safety risks of exposure to natural sources of optical radiation and to draw up and implement an action plan with technical and organisational measures to minimise the risks to the health and safety of workers working outdoors. this is without prejudice to the member states' responsibility to define the specific criteria for carrying out such risk assessment, taking into account the nature of the activities and the exposure. the majority not only prevented the adoption of the proposals we have put forward but also rejected the common position adopted by the council on this matter which pointed in the direction we advocate, aimed at greater protection of the health of workers exposed to strong solar radiation, in view of the increase in skin cancer which the who has warned about.
in writing. the increasing demands for improved working conditions and protection of workers' health are a positive sign of economic development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the frontier is necessarily thin on the subject under discussion here, since it is necessary to distinguish between the responsibilities of employers and the care that each worker should have, both in his professional life and in his private life. so balance and moderation are needed. i think that the rapporteur of the european parliament has succeeded in doing so.
in writing. i fully support this recommendation which aims to ensure an effective level of protection of minors and human dignity in all audiovisual and information services. it should be noted that young people are spending more and more time on the internet, where millions of pornographic pages are circulating. in this context, it is essential to empower operators and users to ensure the trusted use of these new technologies. the protection of minors requires joint action by politicians, industry, teachers and parents. it is essential to include internet education programmes for children as well as for teachers and parents in training programmes and to set up information campaigns with citizens to alert them to the dangers of using the internet. i would like to highlight the proposal to create a domain name (.kid) which would allow for the existence of a secure internet space since it would be regularly monitored by an independent authority. finally, central servers should offer easy-to-use parental software and subscriptions to child-specific access services with automatic filtering, which will re-establish a certain level of confidence in internet use.
in writing. today we face enormous challenges in terms of the protection of minors and human dignity with the content we can find on the internet, and that raises questions to which we must have clear answers. this report proposes a series of measures relating to the education and training of teachers and trainers, codes of conduct, and information on illegal and/or suspicious activities on the network. it also proposes measures that european authorities can take to improve the collection and exchange of information. industry and national and european authorities should reflect on the means they can provide for better protection of minors. this is a subject which we must all tackle with the desire to find solutions which can increase the necessary protection of minors, the protection of human dignity and the fight against crime and illegal activities.
in writing. our desire to improve children's health has shaped the union's policy of supporting research and development of new medicines for paediatric use. the report therefore contains measures to ensure that all research and development of these medicines and the final authorization of their use for paediatric purposes is monitored by independent and specialised authorities. the report also sets out clear measures on administrative time limits, bearing in mind that the level of quality and the availability of information exchange in this field are essential. this is a field of research which can bring us much joy in the fight against disease and so we must ensure that all the measures we take take take account of the quality and the rigor in the pursuit of these results. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs grossetête.
in writing. one of the basic rules, long taught by economic theorists, is that the cost of collecting a tax should be less than its revenue. it's obvious. but we could add to this the rule that tax payments should be as simple as possible, so that the cost of taxation is not burdened by a 'bureaucratic tax' which is not only blind but above all inefficient. in this context, the initiatives to simplify the collection, payment and refund of vat are to be welcomed.
the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the nuclear issue for peace in the middle east. september 20th the quartet meets to relaunch the road map. how can we do that? the answer, to me, is clear: firmly. indeed, the unilateral withdrawal from gaza has created a justified expectation. the truce between the palestinian armed groups is in force and legislative elections are scheduled for 25 january. this is a favourable picture, but it is also a cyclical one. the opportunity may be lost. that is why we need a firm european position. eight thousand settlers left gaza by israeli decision. it's a positive! but this event must not make us forget the other side of the coin: between june 2004 and 2005, 12,800 new settlers moved into the west bank and the mayor of jerusalem wants to create another hebrew quarter in the middle of the old arab city. that's not how you score points for peace! the settlers left gaza. that's great! but gaza, handed over to the palestinians, urgently needs an airport. it happens that the israeli authorities have an inadmissible veto over this project. in rafah, gaza borders egypt. palestinians and egyptians can manage it, but israel insists on maintaining its presence in the place, as if it were another of its checkpoints. it can't be, because gaza can't be a poisoned gift. a prison that the prison guards have placed in the hands of prisoners, preventing them from moving and crippling their already fragile economy. the exit from gaza is not the end of the story. this is the message that should be the guiding principle of the quartet's new initiatives. peace is possible if we don't lose this opportunity.
in this debate on the situation in the middle east, it is important not only to take account of the return of some of the territories to the palestinian people, which they rightly own and for which they have been fighting for a long time, but also to try to clarify the real reasons which led sharon to dismantle the settlements in gaza, when we know that he was the main mentor and executor of the policy of expansion and consolidation of the israeli occupation, including the settlements and the wall which seeks to annex more territory in the west bank. the first thing to be noted is the failure of this settlement policy in the gaza strip, given the small size of the territory and the enormous population density, given that some 1.3 million people live there in just 362 square kilometres. this means that the approximately 8000 israeli settlers living there (0.6% of the population) occupied 20% of the territory, creating a situation of unsustainable population tension and pressure with devastating social consequences. secondly, sharon has done this, but he continues to maintain the isolation of gaza, which will continue to be surrounded by the israeli army by land, sea and air, and will remain an enclave in the middle of israel, and the land communications with the west bank will continue to be subject to israeli control.
mr president, commissioner verheugen, in a time of economic difficulties it is up to all of us to take the initiative to seek solutions, to find ways, to promote progress and development. it is in this context that our report on the future of sustainable tourism in europe fits. when we talk about tourism in the european union, we are talking about one of our largest and most competitive industries, one that generates more jobs and has the greatest potential for growth, even in the context of an economically stagnant europe. but the fact is that we are also talking about an activity which must be sustainable, so as not to destroy its environmental, landscape and land-use planning resources, among others. at the same time, we must be able to respond to one of the major difficulties which the tourism industry raises in terms of economic efficiency: how to combat the effects of seasonality, particularly on employment and the quality of the services provided? in our report we have repeatedly suggested ways of solving these problems. this is, broadly speaking, the picture of an economic sector with enormous potential, which we must seek to exploit by promoting synergies, developing cooperation and making use of common experience. at the same time, it must be understood that tourism is first and foremost a sector where private initiative predominates and where, by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity, policies emanate mainly from the authorities of the member states. this does not invalidate the commission's role, in particular in improving the coherence of its actions in favour of tourism with the related community policies. we are thinking about transport, employment, the environment, the internal market and so on. in the light of the lisbon strategy, this is an activity increasingly linked to new technologies, making the internet much more than a mere sales channel for travel, making it a real strategic instrument for operating in the tourism sector. in this context, we must know how the community institutions can support the actions of the member states and industry in developing this activity. my answer is: with concrete initiatives. initiatives which can help to improve the management of the actions to be promoted at european level, while at the same time making it possible to take positive action in promoting the tourist destinations of the old continent. the most symbolic of these is undoubtedly the proposal to create a european tourist destination of excellence, inspired by the concept of european capitals of culture. the proposal to draw up a common classification of tourist services on a voluntary basis and with the cooperation of industry is also of importance. it could be used in particular for the classification of hotel and catering facilities, thus increasing the transparency of these services and protecting consumers. we have also proposed a controlled designation of origin for non-food handicraft products. we supported the creation and development of the european tourism portal to which all national portals will be linked, recognising the powerful tool this can be for promoting european destinations. we also advocated the creation of a network of specialised training in tourism, stressing the need to increase employment, training and professional skills in tourism. in the field of security, we proposed the creation of a contact group to coordinate information on crisis management, such as health crises and terrorist acts, for a rapid response in case of need for protection of european tourists and support for tour operators affected. in the field of improving tourist facilities, we propose a set of initiatives to better accommodate people with reduced mobility and the specialised training of tourist service workers for this purpose. we have stressed the need to develop new tourist activities and infrastructure to meet the growing demand for older people, who will constitute over 30% of the population of developed countries in the coming decades. in the field of business competitiveness, we agreed on the need to preserve the competitive position of operators established in the european union in taxation terms vis-à-vis operators from third countries, a matter which was fortunately resolved with the vote this morning on the becsey report, and on the possibility of applying a reduced vat rate system to certain services, similar to others already covered. we support the proposal to create a tourist brand 'europe', which represents the enormous social and cultural diversity, the quality of services and the sustainability of tourist projects in the european union, to be promoted through an appropriate communication campaign to potential visitors from third countries. finally, in the field of transport, we advocated the importance of investing in quality, in particular by adapting capacity and improving accessibility of the various means, by simplifying the tourist offer with the use of integrated ticketing systems and also by its proper interconnection with the main segment of tourist transport, which is air transport. mr president, we must finally address the question of community financing. tourism is an essential sector for regional and local development and must therefore be placed at the heart of the structural funds. this pause in the discussion of the financial perspectives for 2007-13 can and should be an opportunity to bring the subject back by creating a budget line of its own. all this must be done while ensuring that european regulation is flexible and well adapted to the needs, so that operators can take action more easily and continue to offer quality and sustainable services at an affordable cost. in a europe where private enterprise is leading the way in economic growth and development, our role as policy-makers is also to support and complement it on this desirable path of success. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who contributed their amendments and their votes in committee to this report, including, of course, the members of the committees on regional development and culture and education. i hope that the debate which is now about to begin will be commensurate with the quality of their contribution and the effort of all of them.
tourism is the responsibility of the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. it should remain so. tourism must be developed in a sustainable way, contributing to a balanced spatial planning, respecting the environment, promoting and enhancing cultural diversity and historical heritage, ensuring the participation of regional and local authorities, stakeholders and the general public. it is essential and a matter of priority to combat the growing precariousness and exploitation of workers in this sector. it is urgent and necessary to give value to work, to give wages dignity, to guarantee the security and stability of employment links and to promote vocational training. we disagree with some aspects of this report, and we think that others are not sufficiently emphasized. we have therefore tabled amendments to reaffirm the role of tourism in economic and social cohesion, its link with local realities, the need to ensure quality employment and the importance of preserving cultural heritage. we believe that the absence of a specific legal basis in the treaties has not prevented specific measures and programmes to promote tourism at community level from being implemented in the past. that is why we have proposed the creation of a community programme in this sector, to complement the action of the member states. tourism is an important sector with great potential and can add value to a country which is also developing its productive capacity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr queiró on the high quality of his report and thank him for his willingness to incorporate the contributions made by several colleagues. i come from a country, portugal, and a region, the autonomous region of madeira, where tourism is one of the most important instruments for its development, and it is understandable that i should be making this report and giving the reasons for my support and my proposals. tourism, because of its importance at european, national and regional level, the employment it provides, the number of businesses it creates, the new technologies it promotes and the innovation it generates, can be considered one of the areas in which progress can be made in the lisbon strategy. tourism is also a means of diversifying the economy and developing rural areas and regions with natural or demographic handicaps, such as the outermost regions, island and mountain regions and the sparsely populated northernmost regions. the union is the world's leading tourist destination and its citizens are the most sought-after tourist destination outside the union. tourism remains an area of competence for the member states and their regional and local authorities, but it should be the subject of guidelines, policies and actions of the european union. the union should play a supporting, coordinating and complementary role in relation to the member states. there should be greater integration and cohesion between the actions of the member states and the union in the field of tourism. the commission should be given more effective structures and the appropriate financial means in the financial perspective, in particular for promoting the european destination, and should set up mechanisms for greater cooperation and information between the structures of the union, the member states and their regions. tourism must comply with european standards which ensure that all those responsible for tourism, in the performance of their duties, protect the environment, the land, the training of staff and cultural traditions. in the matter of safety and tourist rights we think that it should be taken into account, in particular... (the president cut the speaker off)
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, women still suffer all kinds of discrimination in the 21st century: at work, in the family, in politics, in society and also in access to health care. and not just in access to sexual and reproductive health. there is also discrimination in diagnosis and treatment in general and particularly in relation to so-called women's diseases such as fibromyalgia, breast and uterine cancer and osteoporosis. this report is also timely and welcome and i take this opportunity to congratulate mrs svensson. women are discriminated against in care because prejudice overrides common sense and respect for others. because of prejudice and lack of information, more women are now infected with aids. to reduce the number of women suffering and to prevent some deaths, it is urgent that all member states ensure access to sexual and reproductive health and family planning. we cannot allow thousands of women to continue to die from illegal abortions, thousands of young women to suffer the consequences of early pregnancy because of lack of adequate support, and thousands of women to be physically and psychologically abused in maternity hospitals because of neglect and, above all, prejudice. even in european maternity hospitals there are women who are left for hours and hours in labour, in great suffering, without any help or attention. as is well known, domestic violence, female genital mutilation, trafficking in women, prostitution and all forms of sex trade are at the root of serious health problems and female mortality. violence against women between the ages of 15 and 44 kills more women than cancer, malaria, road accidents or war. however, in the european area, women continue to be abused, mutilated, trafficked and prostituted, without the authorities of the member states taking responsibility. and what has the commission done? it is also very little in this field. even obvious and simple measures such as breast screening, which is only adopted in a few countries such as belgium, spain, finland, france, hungary, luxembourg, the netherlands, sweden, the united kingdom and portugal, are slow to be increased. it needs to be extended to other countries. health policy is a matter for the member states, but the commission can and should do more in this area because there are many situations which go beyond national responsibilities.
it is always essential to underline the importance of developing a gender perspective in public health strategies, both in the member states and in the european commission. we therefore consider this debate to be of the utmost importance and congratulate mrs svensson on her report, since much greater attention needs to be paid to women's health, with particular emphasis on pregnant and breastfeeding women, but also on predominantly female professions. however, a much more active role is needed in promoting sexual and reproductive health, sexuality education and family planning, ensuring women's right to choose and creating equal access for all women, regardless of their socioeconomic situation, to health facilities to terminate a pregnancy during the first three months if they so wish, putting an end to female mutilation, clandestine abortion and the criminalisation of women, as is still the case in some countries of the european union, including in my country, portugal. it is therefore important that the european institutions and the member states play a more active role in the defence of women's health and that they take the opportunity to do so now at the next united nations world assembly.
i would like to propose an amendment to replace paragraph 9 of the resolution, which says: 'and creating a joint border civil protection corps', by 'and creating a european civil protection corps taking special account of the vulnerabilities of border zones'. i would also like to draw attention to the existence of a small problem in paragraph 17 of the portuguese translation. the english version is therefore to be taken as the authentic one in paragraph 17.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of this resolution, to which we have made a major contribution. we note the adoption of the following proposals, which we again tabled in plenary, namely:- insistence on the need for the immediate application of the european union solidarity fund to the areas and countries affected;- urge the commission to speed up the relevant community administrative procedures, in particular those relating to the need to reprogram the structural funds and the cohesion fund and to make the overly rigid processing of these funds more flexible;- and stress the need for european union support for the reforestation of the affected areas. let's hope they come true. we also regret the rejection of our proposals: - to establish a public agricultural insurance scheme, financed by the european union, to guarantee farmers a minimum income in the event of public disasters such as droughts, fires and floods; - and for the council to take into account, in the proposal for the next financial perspective for the period 2007-13, the need to create support mechanisms for the affected populations, which contain a component for the prevention of this type of large-scale disasters caused by climate change, aimed at minimising their consequences.
in writing. the catastrophe that has struck portugal once again, leaving hundreds of thousands of hectares in ashes, families homeless, landscapes destroyed and, more seriously, causing several deaths, deserves our concern and our commitment to seeking solutions that will minimize its effect - where it can be minimized - while at the same time requiring a serious and definitive effort to avoid its repetition. it is clear that climate change, that extreme heat, is a direct and immediate cause for the scale of this catastrophe. but men's carelessness is not without responsibility. i believe that the efforts of the ppe-de, particularly at the initiative of the cds-pp members, have contributed to raising awareness among the community institutions and to the eventual provision of funds. this resolution, which also takes account of other disasters in other member states which, for the same reasons, deserve our solidarity, is a contribution to the decision-making process and to the action that needs to be taken. among them is the urgent replacement of firefighter subsidies and the use of the solidarity fund. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr queiro, which has generally received my support and that of my group. as a native of madeira, a region where tourism is one of the most important instruments for its sustainable development, i can understandably support the report. this is mainly due to the following reasons: the importance of tourism at european, national and regional level, in terms of its contribution to economic growth, job creation and technological innovation, contributing to the progress of the lisbon strategy; the development potential it offers to regions with economic difficulties and specific geographical characteristics, such as the outermost regions; the contribution of the european union and community action to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states to the development of the tourism sector; in this context, the incentive for the eu to provide more effective structures and adequate financial means; the role of tourism in protecting the environment, land use planning and preserving and revitalizing its cultural values, traditions, customs and natural and artistic heritage; and concerns about the safety and protection of tourist rights.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of our proposal which:- 'recalls that the preservation of cultural heritage, in particular that which is considered a world heritage by unesco, is of the utmost importance for the sustainable development of tourism in the eu', asking 'the commission to increase the financial means allocated to the preservation of cultural heritage'. we regret, however, the rejection of the following proposals, among others, which we have tabled: - 'concerned about the level of precariousness in employment in the tourism sector, due to labour ties, wage levels, working conditions and seasonality', and that 'in order to enhance the quality of the services provided and promote greater social cohesion, it is necessary to invest in quality jobs and the qualification of workers in the sector (vocational training, improvement of working conditions, promotion of stable contractual ties) '; and 'that the tourism sector makes a major contribution to economic development, regional employment and territorial cohesion' and that it is necessary 'to support the development of this sector, not only by taking it into account in a transversal way in the different community policies and funds, but also by creating a specific community programme to promote the sector and the synergies between the various economic and social actors involved'.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague eva-britt svensson on the important report she has produced on gender discrimination in health care systems, which i support, particularly with regard to the need to ensure that both sexes receive care, but also that they can provide care and medical care with equal opportunities. it also notes the need to invest in health research with respect to the gender of the patient and supports the initiative to include research on the health status of women and men in the new programme on health and consumer protection (2007-2013) and to take it into account when drawing up the 7th research framework programme.
in writing. the usefulness and importance of the european schools are obvious and should be understood as a fair facility granted to community officials. but, like any institution of this kind, it is necessary from time to time to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of its functioning and, with reasonableness and parsimony, to propose reforms that are useful, consistent and effective. that being the essential meaning of this report, i shall vote in favour. there is, however, one aspect which is mentioned in the report but which i would like to stress: the question of the non-communitization of the roles and responsibilities of the member states.
in writing. as the author of the report on sustainable tourism in europe, i have followed my colleague's work closely and i believe that we both worked with the same conviction that tourism is an industry with a potential for revitalizing societies that cannot be overlooked. however, i believe that this report proposes actions which go beyond the action of the union and which damage the nature of this industry, that is, the private initiative itself. the cornillet report has a supplementary scope - it intersects with our development support policies. in this context, tourism can indeed contribute to the democratisation of these societies and to political balance, since it promotes job creation, helps the development of new technologies and contributes to the training of professionals. but it is through the actions of private enterprise that this process is developing and i am convinced that we do not need regulatory or interventionist measures which could be counterproductive. for these reasons i abstained from voting on mr cornillet's report.
in writing. economic development and the improvement of the quality of life, particularly in europe, impose a set of responsibilities on us vis-à-vis the rest of the international community. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of development. this does not detract from the market, but it does reveal its inevitable limitations. in this context, and with full awareness of the constraints on the development of the world's poorest countries that certain diseases represent, the european union's development effort - sometimes of questionable effectiveness - must undoubtedly include the fight against these diseases in the context of development aid.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr doorn, drawn up on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on statutory audit of individual and consolidated accounts and amending council directives 78/660/eec and 83/349/eec (com (2004) 0177 - c6-0005/2004 - 2004/0065 (cod)) (a6-0224/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, drawn up on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the islamic federal republic of the comoros on fishing off the comoros for the period 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2010 (com (2005) 0187 - c6-0154/2005 - 2005/0092cns) (a6-0260/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as commissioner frattini has said, this has been a long process: the first proposal was submitted five years ago; in 2001, this parliament, through the watson report, tabled over 100 amendments; the council spent two years negotiating and reached the general approach in april 2004. i regret that the european parliament was not consulted until after the council had reached a political agreement, which means that the council will in practice ignore what we are discussing here. the absence of the council from the chamber is a good indication of the attention it will give to this debate. the fact is that, as commissioner frattini has already said, the directive is important. this first step towards the pursuit of a european asylum system is urgent. this proposal for a directive is the first legally binding instrument on asylum procedures. we need to create a common asylum system and manage migration flows more effectively and fairly, both for immigrants and for host societies. and we must do so in accordance with the 1951 geneva convention, in particular the principle of non-refoulement: states undertake not to force such persons to return to countries or territories where their lives or freedoms are threatened. on the other hand, we must understand that the member states want to combat the abuse of asylum systems by economic migrants. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, wolfgang kreissl-dörfler, on his work. i supported many of his amendments, as i saw most of my proposals integrated with regard to humanitarian issues and the protection of the rights of asylum seekers, the need for swift and effective procedures, conditions of detention, protection of minors and other persons in a vulnerable situation. however, we disagree on two fundamental points, namely the disappearance of the lists of safe countries, which already existed in some member states, and the elimination of the concept of a 'super safe' country. that is why we are calling for a separate vote on a number of amendments. the concept of a 'super safe' country applies to european third countries, such as switzerland, which have particularly high standards of human rights and refugee protection. this concept, when implemented in germany, was a success, limiting abuses and circumscribing the number of asylum seekers. some argued that this solution was contrary to the geneva convention and did not respect the principle of non-refoulement. that is why we have consulted the legal service of the european parliament, which has just issued a report which confirms our position, maintaining that the safe countries solution is fully compatible with the international obligations to which we are bound. we also reintroduced an amendment which was not adopted by the commission and which seeks to ensure that there is an effective remedy whereby the applicant should always have the right to appeal against the decision taken and await the decision in the country where he has applied for asylum. i believe that by approving these amendments we will have a report that is up to our responsibilities, which the council should follow. if we continue with the amendments contained in the initial solution, i am afraid that the epp will not be able to give its consent to the report.
mr president, during the last speaker's speech there was no translation into portuguese throughout the whole speech. so i did not fully understand the last speaker's speech. i would ask the bureau to ensure that the translation service is functioning in such a way that we can follow the whole debate.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report. that is why this first agreement on wine with the united states, after 20 years of bilateral negotiations, is important, but also worrisome, and it seems to have arisen more because of the ongoing negotiations in the world trade organisation than because of the defence of the interests of the european union's wine producers, given the enormous concessions it has made to the united states. we believe it is essential that the negotiations be extended to the international level, but it is also important that the commissioner should make it clear, as regards the united states, how she intends to safeguard the interests of wine-producing farmers in european regions, where this production is essential for economic development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of wine is not compromised, and that consumers are protected. when we look at the details and hear their explanations, we are left with great difficulty and great concern about the guarantees that must be given to our farmers and the regions concerned.
mr president, wine production in europe is not simply the application of laboratory or marketing techniques. as has already been said here today, the cultivation of vines and the production of wine are distinctive cultural features of various european regions and are part of their multi-millennial history. to give just one example, which i am very fond of, as you will understand, port wine, i will mention that it is produced in the oldest demarcated region in the world, created and regulated long before the american colonies ever thought of becoming a sovereign state. in the north of portugal, on the steep slopes of the douro river, successive generations have carved the mountains with their hands over the centuries and worked the miracle of transforming the stones of a desolate landscape into a scene of extreme beauty, now classified as a world heritage site. what i have just said does not exclude my full awareness of the importance of concluding the agreement with the united states. i know how much european exports to this country weigh and i know the extremely difficult trading environment in which this problem has been dragging on for many years. but there can be no negotiating pragmatism that calls into question the establishment of minimum rules for the protection of our designations of origin and geographical indications. the commission cannot under any circumstances neglect the protection of semi-generic indications in the united states internal market. it cannot fail to fix a precise date for the signing of the final undertaking. it cannot fail to resume without delay the planned new phase of negotiations with a view to obtaining recognition of the 17 designations of origin listed in annex ii. i sincerely hope that the disappointing result of this first round of negotiations will be offset by the second round, which we all hope will be concluded quickly. a fair and balanced agreement with the united states could be a positive sign that european wine-growing, faced with various and complex challenges, urgently needs it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank our colleague christa klass and our colleague herranz garcia for bringing this matter here so quickly, for the importance it deserves. wine is one of the products which is now subject to increased international competition as a result of globalisation and the liberalisation of markets. it is therefore one of the few triumphs we have in europe, our designations of origin, the fruit of centuries-old traditions and a culture of which this product, wine, is one of the strongest and most characteristic exponents. it is worth recalling the doha declaration and the declaration of the wto general council of 31 july 2004 in geneva, which put non-trade concerns on the table. these aspects, which we can call non-quantitative, must be taken into account in any agreement and in this agreement with the united states, which imports 40% of our wine exports, they must be included so that at the end of the negotiations we can be at ease and not open up future doors that will condition us in other negotiations with third countries at bilateral level or at the wto level. in order to have a fair deal, it is not enough to liberalize, we must also have qualitative rules, such as whether our wine appellations of origin can be considered as representing what we can call intellectual property that must be protected, such as copyright. this initial agreement was, in my view, made in a somewhat opaque manner and somewhat outside the european parliament. so we must know what the united states accepts in particular, particularly in relation to our wines with a designation of origin. it is because, from what i have read in the newspapers, we do not know, for example, whether madeira wine or port wine are included in those which the united states accepts as designations of origin. we accept some concessions and compromises in terms of oenological practices, but it is unacceptable that our designations of origin, which are a genuine intellectual property and which mark our culture even more than trade, are not strictly respected. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that if an agreement is necessary, and i accept that an agreement is necessary, it is essential that this agreement should not be at any price and especially at the cost of what our traditions and culture are in the designations of origin.
in writing. the vote in favour of this report is justified both by the substance of the matter - its content and purpose - and by the urgency of its adoption. the good intentions of the directive in question would be frustrated if the necessary correction of article 78 were not made. i believe that the need for a clear, simplified and coherent legal framework for public procurement is reason enough for the timely adoption of this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and bulgaria on certain aspects of air services. the various bilateral agreements in the field of air services are the main instruments for ensuring the proper functioning of our relations with third countries, especially as regards air safety issues. the council therefore authorized the commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to amending certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements by means of a community agreement, the court of justice of the european communities having recognised the exclusive competence of the community in this matter. in this case, with bulgaria, the amendments proposed by parliament are of a corrective nature and deal with taxes on aviation fuel, designation clauses and tariffs, matters to which we have no objection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and croatia on certain aspects of air services. the various bilateral agreements in the field of air services are the main instruments for ensuring the proper functioning of our relations with third countries, especially as regards air safety issues. the council therefore authorized the commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to amending certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements by means of a community agreement, the court of justice of the european communities having recognised the exclusive competence of the community in this matter. in this case, with croatia, the amendments proposed by parliament are of a corrective nature and deal with taxes on aviation fuel, designation clauses and tariffs, matters to which we have no objection.
in writing. the report by mr florenz on the fees charged by the european medicines agency is an example of how we should take account of the experience and assessments of the work of the community agencies. the report follows a major change in the agency's powers, which have not only been modified but also broadened. it is therefore essential to provide this agency with a sound and up-to-date financial framework. the amendments proposed were aimed at clarifying the principle of setting fees charged by the agency and the application of reduced fees for traditional herbal medicines. the rapporteur's position therefore calls for the application of fees to take account of the workload involved in the evaluation of products. i therefore voted in favour of mr florenz's report on the fees charged by the european medicines agency.
in writing. the new eu-comoros fisheries protocol, which will be in force from 2005 to 2010, is the logical and foreseeable evolution of the previous agreement, with only a few changes compared to the previous one. the new protocol provides for a reduction in the total number of vessels, despite the fact that the total allowable catch is to be increased from 4670 tonnes to 6000 tonnes. as with other fisheries agreements with the indian ocean countries, the eu-comoros agreement is of great importance to the community tuna sector, which is able to meet the needs of the demanding community market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to point out that the new agreement nevertheless reduces the number of portuguese longliners licensed to fish in the agreement area. i cannot but disagree with the fact that the commission did not consult the portuguese sector in the course of the negotiations for the proposal.
in writing. the new protocol to the fisheries agreement with the comoros will apply from 2005 to 2010. this differs little from the previous protocol (2001 and 2004), which was extended for 10 months. the approval of this agreement thus guarantees fishing opportunities to the fleets of the member states operating in these waters, including portugal. from the eu perspective, it is estimated that each euro invested by the community in the agreement generated an added value of eur 5.07, which represents an impressive return on investment. the number of tuna-fishing vessels remains the same (21 spanish, 18 french and 1 italian vessels), while the number of surface longliners has been reduced from 25 to 17 (12 for spain and 5 for portugal), due to the level of utilisation of the last protocol, which shows that the long-distance fishing fleets are being reduced, as exemplified by the almost residual weight of the portuguese long-distance fishing fleet. this protocol increases the contribution of the shipowners by 40%, from 25 euros per tonne of tuna caught to 35 euros, reducing the community's share, which we do not think is acceptable. the commission has announced its intention to negotiate future protocols with other countries at the same rate for shipowners.
in writing. the new protocol on tuna fisheries concluded between the community and the comoros for the period from 1 january 2005 to 31 december 2010 raised some feasibility issues for community countries with fishing fleets. i have followed the process closely and have noticed that the negotiations did not include consultation of the sector. the commission took note of this criticism and reaffirmed the great importance of continuing and strengthening the dialogue with the fishing industry in the framework of the partnership agreements. the commission also expressed its intention to hold a meeting with the tuna sector in autumn 2005 to discuss all issues relevant to the sector. i would like to stress that the annual financial compensation has increased from eur 350 250 to eur 390 000 per year, and the most important fact is that 60% of it is allocated to measures to support the development of local fisheries. for these reasons i have no objection to the rapporteur's proposals.
in writing. we support the proposal to reject this initiative which, under the pretext of the 'fight against terrorism', is an attack on the fundamental freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens. the proposal is intended to store indiscriminately data relating to communications (telephone, sms and e-mail) in a systematic way, and apparently without any control. as the rapporteur points out, this is an inappropriate and unnecessary proposal, which is contrary to the provisions of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. it is worth noting that this is not the first time that parliament has rejected such an initiative, but the british presidency and the european commission, despite being widely criticised, have this week again presented new initiatives in this area. the portuguese law provides for a security system which, in conjunction with the judiciary, already includes a whole balanced set of measures, rules and controls which, if used with care and rigor and provided with the necessary human resources, is certainly in a position to combat crime effectively, even in its most organized forms.
in writing. i am in favour of the spirit of the proposal put forward by the four member states, share the concerns expressed in the proposal and consider that there is no excess or disproportion in the proposal, but i voted in favour of the report, which proposed rejecting the proposal put forward by the four member states. i did so precisely because i thought that the substance of the proposal was correct, but since the commission is in a position to present a complete and comprehensive proposal on this subject shortly, this seems to me to be the most correct way of legislating on this matter. in the present times it is necessary not to confuse security with securitarianism. saving traffic and communication data is not even equivalent to phone tapping. it is simply a question of keeping the bare minimum necessary for an effective criminal investigation. and although this measure is not particularly effective in preventing crime - although this dimension is also present - its usefulness in criminal investigations is all too evident. so, in order to justify the confidence that has been placed in it, the commission is now expected to present in good time the necessary proposal to regulate this important matter.
in writing. this proposal for a directive is the first step in the harmonization of the asylum procedure in the various countries of the european union. as our group has pointed out, the ep report, when compared with the agreement reached in the council on this same proposal, covers up some of the most negative aspects of the report, such as the abolition of the concept of 'super safe country' - which the united nations high commissioner for refugees criticises - and the defence of the possibility of appeal against the refusal of an asylum application, as well as the right to remain in the country until the end of the procedure. however, the amendments tabled by our group and our vote in plenary - in addition to other substantive aspects - have also sought to help remove other negative aspects, of which the following stand out: - the rejection of a period of detention for asylum seekers, particularly in the so-called 'detention centres' for illegal immigrants; - the rejection of the concept of a 'safe third country', since the examination of an asylum application should be carried out taking into account the individual case, and the creation of an arbitrary list of countries should be rejected (by what criteria would it be defined?).
in writing. the illusion that legislating on this matter is simple ignores the evidence that different legal systems produce different, sometimes unforeseen or undesirable outcomes - see, for example, the question of the suspensive effect of an appeal against a decision not to grant refugee status. the same illusion also ignores the fact that there are different traditions in the definition of the concept of refugees themselves - for example, the difference in the concept in portugal and the united kingdom. the two aspects mentioned above are inseparable from the vote i have taken on this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i am sorry that the good intentions which have certainly motivated the parliamentary left will - as so often happens - produce a bad result. the concern for the proper and humane reception of refugees is by no means incompatible with a set of rules which are at least as flexible as possible, so as to make the necessary adjustments to the different national laws. on the contrary, this is the correct sense of a justified concern for the refugee problem and a desire to find really effective solutions.
the commission has already taken a number of important steps in the process of establishing a special status for the outermost regions, in accordance with article 299 (2) of the treaties. this status is based on the very specific situation of these regions. in fact, the combination and permanence of factors such as isolation and distance, insularity and archipelagic nature, small size of the territory, mountainous geography and economic dependence on a single product or activity, create a reality that we call the outermost periphery and which is unique within the european union. it would be a serious breach of the principle of proportionality and equality if the outermost regions were to be given the same treatment as the other european regions. the integration model of these regions must take account of their very specific nature and must therefore be adapted, modelled and even derogated from in some cases. we must treat differently what is different, because the differences that the outermost regions exhibit have a very negative impact on their economic and social development, leaving them in an unacceptable competitive disadvantage and unable to take advantage of the dynamics unleashed by the internal market, recent enlargement, the lisbon strategy and globalisation itself. in fact, how can the outermost regions compete on an equal footing when the economic activities carried out there are burdened by very significant additional costs, such as those derived from transport, the absence of economies of scale and external economies, small and fragmented markets, the shortage of skilled labour, etc. it is therefore crucial to continue efforts to deepen the european union's special treatment of the very specific reality of the outermost regions. this is the main purpose of the european commission's communication 'a stronger partnership for the outermost regions', on which i was particularly grateful and encouraged to draw up the report we are now considering. the european commission proposes an overall strategy centred on three priorities: competitiveness, accessibility and regional integration. it proposes that the new cohesion policy and the other community policies should make a greater contribution to this strategy, and also proposes the creation of innovative instruments such as the specific programme for compensating for over-capacity and a 'grand voisinage' programme to promote the integration of the outermost regions into the neighbouring geographical area, combining transnational and cross-border cooperation with customs and trade policy measures. hence the strength of the european commission's proposal to counter and mitigate the main constraints resulting from the ultraperipheral condition. the main objective is to tackle the main one, namely to break the isolation of the outermost regions, to break the isolation by promoting the use of new information and communication technologies and facilitating access to the european continent in terms of transport, but also by promoting the integration of the outermost regions into the neighbouring area, which they have always turned their backs on. the second key idea is to promote the competitiveness of the outermost regions, not only by reducing the significant additional costs of being in the outermost regions, but also by taking decisive action on the dynamic factors of competitiveness, education, training, innovation, research, the information society and entrepreneurship. in this last respect, the european commission's proposal is clearly inadequate, and this is its major weakness. in fact, the contribution of community policies which could have a major impact on the competitiveness of the outermost regions falls far short of what is needed, such as policies to develop human capital, research and technological development, the environment, services of general economic interest and telecommunications. the european commission does not foresee a special solution for the outermost regions which leave objective 1, because they would have exceeded 75% of the community average in terms of gdp per capita. a special scheme for the phasing-out of objective 1 for objective 2 is fully justified in the light of article 299 (2) of the treaties. the european commission's proposal is, however, quite positive, because it comes at the right time, because it sets the strategy and priorities correctly, because it provides for innovative instruments. we welcome the european commission's initiative, but we urge it to be more ambitious and to take account of the suggestions and comments contained in my report. i should like to conclude without a word of thanks to the colleagues who, through their contributions, have made it possible to draw up a better report.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by making some comments on mr guellec's excellent report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development. i highly appreciate your support for promoting the concept of territorial cohesion in our regional policy. i wish your enthusiasm was shared by all our member states, but, as you know, the current version of structural funds draft regulations has weakened the commission's proposal on territorial cohesion. this is true, for example, for urban issues. the proposals foreseen by the commission as compulsory have been rendered merely optional by the council. another example is the substantial decrease in terms of financial resources regarding the new european territorial cooperation objective in the financial perspective, according to the latest compromise proposal of the luxembourg presidency. in this proposal it amounts to only half of the amount proposed by the commission. so i should like to encourage you to reinstate our initial ideas in the negotiations. i see the work on territorial cohesion as something that we must take forward on two fronts. first, through greater emphasis on territorial cohesion in the next generation of cohesion programmes. it must be said that in the draft community strategic guidelines – which were adopted by the commission at the end of june – we asked member states and the regions to pay particular attention to a balanced territorial development when preparing their future regional programmes. in this context, the future national strategic frameworks represent a key opportunity for promoting development models respectful of territorial balance. moreover, the draft regulations foresee provisions for the specific character of certain territories and they focus on certain thematic priorities which contribute to the territorial development by improving their accessibility or by fostering the development on research and innovation poles. secondly, i believe we can advance our work on territorial cohesion through promotion of exchange of experience, best practice, benchmarking and also analytical work. as you know, espon – the research programme – is helping us to improve the understanding of territorial trends and the impact of sectoral policies on the enlarged union. in addition, other networks, such as interact or urbact, contribute to this. i feel confident that these initiatives can be continued in the future as well. with regard to the regular reports on economic and social cohesion carried out by the commission, i propose to devote part of the fourth cohesion report – due for publication in 2007 – to the territorial cohesion issue. i would also like to inform you that my services are currently preparing a working paper on the cities' contribution to growth and jobs in the regions. this paper will complement the community strategy guidelines and will be presented to the informal ministerial meeting on sustainable communities in bristol in december of this year. finally, i am also convinced that we can take forward our work on territorial cohesion through better coordination of community policies and national policies. so, once again, i am grateful for the emphasis you put on the role of territorial cohesion in our regional policy and i am willing to take forward the territorial cohesion issue both in the context of the new programmes and in our exchange of best practice. i now turn to mr marques' report, which is also excellent. it is about stronger partnership for the outermost regions, with a number and diversity of recommendations which are clear proof of the strong commitment and dedication of the european parliament to this important subject. i am very pleased that the commission succeeded in establishing a good foundation for a strong partnership with the outermost regions, at both political and technical levels. i strongly believe that the last meeting we had in la réunion is visible proof of this partnership. as you said, we have indeed proposed a significant number of measures to promote economic development of the outermost regions in line with our communication of last year. our proposals cover many areas such as cohesion policy, agriculture, fisheries and research. those proposals are currently under negotiation in the council and parliament. i sincerely hope that we can swiftly come to an agreement. some important proposals are still under preparation; in particular, rules on national regional aid, which the commission will adopt by the end of 2005. i share your view that much remains to be done. your draft resolution constitutes an important milestone, which we will take into account in our daily work. in our next report on the outermost regions, possibly in 2007 or 2008, i plan to assess the progress made. it is also indispensable to have a coherent approach across all community policies that takes account of the specific situation of the outermost regions and which needs to be complemented by appropriate national policies. as commissioner in charge of the coordination of questions related to those regions, i am committed to ensure that all measures taken by the college are adapted to the specific situation of these regions. your motion for a resolution identifies a significant number of topics to which i will refer in my closing remarks. with regard to financial perspectives and the cohesion policy and the outermost regions, we certainly welcome the uk presidency's stated aim of reaching a consensus on the package of regulations as soon as possible so that it can be finalised very quickly once the outcome of the future financing negotiations is known. i pay tribute to parliament, which quickly recognised the urgency of the situation and voted through the regulations at first reading by an overwhelming majority and with very constructive amendments. an urgent deal on the budget is particularly important for the outermost regions. such a deal must include, in our view, the special programme that the commission has proposed for the outermost regions in order to compensate for the additional costs those regions have to bear. i repeat that we will do everything we can to get support from the member states for those ideas.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i would like to refer to the second report. for any policy to be implemented successfully, a good strategy is needed, we all know that. but a good strategy by itself is of little use if the necessary policy instruments for its implementation are not in place. the commission deserves to be congratulated on the strategy paper it has presented to us. it shows that the successive expressions of concern and the calls from various community bodies for a strengthened partnership with the outermost regions were well followed up and interpreted. as regards the agricultural aspect, for which i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee, i was pleased to note the unanimous position of its members, both in their assessment of the general issues in the document and in their assessment of the sectoral issues, as well as in my specific recommendations and suggestions for improving and filling gaps, particularly as regards banana, sugar, milk and fruit and vegetable production. i am grateful to the rapporteur for his response to all the key points put forward by the committee on agriculture and i congratulate him on the excellent work he has done. i also share their concern about the uncertainties surrounding the policy instruments needed to give concrete expression to the strategy envisaged, in particular those pending the unblocking of the current impasse over the financial perspective for the next programming period. without them our debate will be nothing more than a statement of good intentions. i hope that the commission and the council will be consistent with the positions they have adopted on this matter and will be able to live up to their responsibilities and the expectations that have been created. the social, economic and territorial cohesion of some of the regions of the european union with the greatest constraints on their development, without which the objectives of our union will not be achieved.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr marques on his excellent report and also on his acceptance of the proposals from the committee on fisheries contained in it. as rapporteur for this committee's opinion, i now have to make a few comments of interest to the fisheries sector in these regions. although i agree with the substance of the european commission's communication on this sector, i think that the communication should have gone a little further in its considerations on fisheries. that is why i have proposed a number of points in the opinion of the committee on fisheries which i consider essential. i believe that posei-fisheries should be updated, as was posei-agriculture, for which i was rapporteur here in the european parliament, because of the specificities of the sector and the characteristics of these regions and the realities that are constantly evolving. i would remind you of the enormous fragility of fishing areas, as we all know, and the socioeconomic importance of fishing in some of these regions. in fact, although there is a lot of water, it is known that there is not much fish around the areas of the outermost regions. this is not unrelated to the fact that there is no continental shelf, which is why fishing is mainly carried out in the so-called "seamounts". on this basis, i believe that the european commission should apply the precautionary principle without restriction and without hesitation, whenever it is required. we recall, for example, the recent proposal to ban bottom trawling off the azores, madeira and the canary islands, in which we also had the opportunity to defend this same position here in the house. in the meantime, the european commission should guarantee the fishing fleets of the ors positive discrimination in access to marine resources in these areas and safeguard the sustainability of small-scale fishing. i also believe that the european commission should limit the use of certain fishing gear which may be harmful to ecosystems. as regards the financial aspect, the european commission should also be reminded of the fragility of ultraperipheral regions. and so it is important that in future the commission takes into account the need to maintain the level of support in the eff as it was in the fifg, to maintain the level of support for the processing industry, to maintain the derogations which have so far allowed fleet modernisation and to increase compensation for the extra costs of disposing of certain fishery products.
for the gue/ngl group article 299 (2) of the treaty provides that, taking into account the social, economic and structural situation of the azores, madeira, the canary islands and the french overseas departments, specific measures should be adopted for these outermost regions. these regions are characterised by the existence of permanent structural disadvantages which differentiate them from the other regions of the countries of the european union. structural disadvantages aggravated by the remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products, all of which, if persisted and combined, seriously hamper their development. this is stated in the treaties, and therefore, in view of their development needs and the effective achievement of economic and social cohesion, a principle also enshrined in the treaties, it is necessary not only to guarantee the specific nature of the ultraperiphery in a transversal way in all community policies, but also to create a specific community programme of support for these regions, integrating all the dispersed measures and with the appropriate financial means in the financial framework 2007-2013, in order to make a significant contribution to solving their problems. many aspects could and should be addressed concerning the reality and needs of these regions and their populations. i would simply stress the need to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and the activity of fishing communities in these regions, for which it is essential that the exclusive competence to access their waters, in accordance with their national jurisdiction, be equivalent to their exclusive economic zone. the need to consider a framework of permanent support measures in the environmental area, taking into account that most of the territory of these regions is occupied by nature reserves and other protected areas, or, finally, support for measures in the area of training, traditional crafts and local production and tourism.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleague and friend, mr sérgio marques, on his excellent report and his willingness to incorporate contributions from other members, and mr guellec on the quality of his report. as the pse shadow rapporteur on the committee on regional development, i tabled amendments, which were largely adopted, and i proposed to my group that we support the report and all the amendments tabled in its vote, first in committee and now in plenary. with different perspectives and approaches, we agree to support the strategy proposed by the commission for the sustainable development of the outermost regions of the european union as regards priorities, instruments and, in particular, the creation of a specific programme to compensate for over-cost, designed to compensate for the specific and permanent constraints of the outermost regions, such as their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and activities, small size of local markets, and the establishment of an action plan for the outermost regions. although we agree with the strategy, we have some criticisms or reservations concerning: first, the lack of action and of financial means for its implementation in the wake of the commission's statements and proposals; the second concerns the exclusive use of the gdp per capita criterion for the eligibility of these regions under the new convergence objective of the reformed cohesion policy. the third is the use of the population criterion in the allocation of the budgetary allocation for the specific programme for compensating for over-cost; and the fourth concerns the uncertainty about the greater neighbourhood action plan, as it is not clear how it should be framed in the future european territorial cooperation objective of the reformed cohesion policy and its 'new neighbourhood instrument'. for all these reasons, and in agreement with the rapporteur, i suggest, as a justified claim of the outermost regions, that the outermost regions should be given differential treatment in accordance with article 299 (2) in view of their specific conditions of access to the structural funds, and that priority financial support should be granted to them regardless of their income level. secondly, an increase in the budgetary allocation for the specific programme to be distributed equitably according to the constraints affecting them; thirdly, a clarification of the action plan for the wider neighbourhood in the context of the future objective of 'european territorial cooperation' and the new 'neighbourhood policy' of the union, with a view to a neighbourhood which covers not only the regions and neighbouring countries such as morocco, cape verde, brazil and others, but also the host countries of the large communities of migrants from the ors with whom they have traditional ties. i therefore suggest that this report be adopted, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a further important step after the positive proposal from the commission, so that, by approving the financial perspective, the conditions for the sustainable development of the outermost regions can be created, and economic, social and territorial cohesion can be successfully promoted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european union is not just a political project; it is also a solidarity project which must be based on economic, social and territorial cohesion. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. we must combat the peripheries and focus on a model of sustainable development which takes account of disparities not only between member states but also between regions (even within the same state). this is intended to give substance to the objectives of the lisbon strategy, without falling into the error of achieving efficiency and competitiveness by promoting a europe of inequalities. the classic indicator of gdp per head, as a criterion for eligibility for the structural funds, must be supplemented urgently by other indicators, such as the level of research and innovation activity, the level of education and training, the level of diversification of productivity in the area and the unemployment rate, since the fallacy of subordinating real regional needs to an indicator often determined at national level is obvious. i would draw the attention of the president and the commissioner to the question of the phasing out of certain regions, 19which, with enlargement, have become statistically richer regions, although their real economic situation has not improved. it is a serious problem affecting regions such as the algarve in portugal, where i come from, a region which is not only one of the most peripheral in continental european terms, but also has deep internal disparities, besides being surrounded on all sides by objective 1 regions. for this region, as for all the other regions of the 19, it is essential to find a balanced solution which will keep them eligible while structural problems continue to arise, contributing to a more balanced development. the union must be able to give a solidary and responsible response to the challenges that enlargement has brought us. this response requires territorial cohesion and the political courage to create the conditions for the european union to become a prosperous area, free of differences between north and south, east and west, between mountainous areas and the outermost regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr ambroise guellec and my compatriot, mr sergio marques, on their excellent reports. these reports show that the actors share the european ideal which has made the valorisation of the cultural diversity of their regions a hallmark of the european union's development model. regional policy is therefore an initiative and cannot be confused with a mere replica of the implementation of national policies at national or european level. regional policy is a field of conception, policy measures and actions which, taking into account national policies, synthesises and adapts them according to its own objectives and strategies. regional policy in the european union has always been seen as a unifying factor, based on the conviction that public policy intervention is necessary because not everything can be solved - as some still claim - by the simple operation of the market. regional policy is the strongest instrument of territorial cohesion and therefore, if the means put at its service are weakened, selfishness wins and solidarity is lost, and without solidarity there can be no sense of belonging, which is the fundamental element that characterizes european identity. i therefore share the views expressed in calling on the european commission to draw up a white paper on the objective of territorial cohesion and to set up a system for monitoring the impact of community policies on the principle of territorial cohesion. i believe that this need is now reinforced by the consequences of the phenomenon of globalisation, since certain regions of the european union will gain while others will lose. in the face of this new reality, regional policy needs a new impetus and i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on strengthening the integration of the territorial dimension into existing community policies.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr sérgio marques, on the careful way in which he has conducted his work and to thank him for the attention he has paid to the views of the azores. there are many challenges facing the outermost regions today in the community's policies, and there has been a positive development in some of them, such as the limitation of the liberalization of access to azorean waters, but there have also been incomprehensible setbacks in others. the commission's proposals to amend the rules of the specific supply arrangements, which, if implemented, would lead to a complete economic paralysis in the azores, are in the latter case. the prohibition of the dispatch of the only product covered by the specific 'dispatch contradictions' scheme combined with a new scheme which, ignoring all international and community legislation on rules of origin, seeks to prohibit the dispatch of any product incorporating goods covered by that supply scheme is unacceptable. the setting of insignificant quotas on quantities and products authorized only for exotic destinations such as morocco, with no tradition of trade links with the azores, prohibiting shipments to traditional markets such as the portuguese mainland, the united states or canada, could only be regarded with dubious humour if it were not set out in the form of a commission regulation. the procedures proposed by the commission are in any case contrary to the architecture of the internal market, impossible to apply by small companies under a simplified tax system, deeply discriminatory and of unprecedented administrative complexity. the statement by the president of the european commission that he accepts the decisions of the national european courts, which rejected the precautionary measures to stop expeditions from the azores, is an extremely positive sign; it is now imperative that all other legal provisions which have been proposed should be carefully reviewed in the same light. i therefore call for common sense, for the demands of any european cartel not to be confused with the general interest and for a thorough review of the commission's legislative proposal.
mr president, commissioner, for environmental, safety and cost reasons, rail transport must be used more and more in european traffic, both for goods and for passengers. however, as is clear from various documents, and in particular from the white paper, the decline in the rail transport market share is generally noticeable and worrisome. our aim must therefore be to reverse this trend by working towards the construction of a competitive and open railway market. that is what we are trying to do here, once again, with prudence and rigor and also with rules, of course, recognizing the right of the member states to limit the opening of the network in certain cases, with respect for the rights of workers, while also guaranteeing the safety and quality of the service provided. the fact is that the prohibition of the rail passenger transport market to the various operators in the member states cannot be justified by a simple idea of protectionism, often of state monopolies, which does not benefit users at all. but there is more to this railroad package that deserves our scrutiny. on the one hand, it seems to us that cabotage services should be covered by future legislation, and it is commendable that the necessary adjustments have been made in opening up networks with a time-scale procedure which could perhaps be extended for the reasons already put forward by many. furthermore, and without prejudice to the responsibility of the member states, the competences in the field of certificates of international train drivers and other safety-related on-board staff should also be defined in such a way as to promote the safety and free movement of workers. finally, the question of differentiation in the framework of the rights and obligations of passengers, both national and international. in our view, the directive should apply to both, thus contributing to the simplification and coherence of the system. in short, we are faced with a legislative package which merits our agreement in the main, for which reason i also congratulate the rapporteurs and which i hope will be adopted in this parliament and in the council. it is, as someone here has already said, an opportunity that cannot be missed.
i would like to congratulate the committee on the initiative in presenting this third railway package, the rapporteurs on the quality of their reports and the colleagues who have contributed to the enrichment of the proposals which aim to revitalize rail transport by creating an internal market for rail transport and thereby strengthening competitiveness and economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. even though it is a package, the level of its merit depends on the judgment to be made on each of its parts. in supporting the position taken by the committee on transport on the zīle report, i generally agree with the spirit of the reports, particularly with the savary report, particularly in its social and safety aspects, and with that of mr sterckx. i would like to express my agreement with the principle of opening up the market for international passenger transport services in the jarzembowski report, but also my reservations and even my disagreement with the intention of mr jarzembowski to bring forward the liberalisation of international transport, including cabotage, and above all to liberalise national transport services from 1 january 2012. it is true that the liberalization of international transport could help to revitalize rail transport in the union, fostering its growth and opening up a process of greater balance vis-à-vis air and road transport. however, it is also true that, as a result of liberalisation, which is partly hasty and inharmonious, some states, such as portugal, may suffer serious problems, where specialised infrastructure such as high-speed links is still to be developed and its management model is to be defined, and where public service provision in the area of transport will continue to play a significant role in terms of employment, economic growth and response to users. in addition, the revision of regulation no 1191/69 on action by member states in respect of public service obligations has not been completed, so that the necessary legal certainty is not ensured and the safeguarding of the performance of public service obligations in the field of transport is not guaranteed by the liberalisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a few more details.
in a word, this report is unacceptable! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the proposal, euphemistically called 'railway development', is part of the 'third railway package' and aims to liberalise international passenger transport by 2010. the report goes further, advocating the liberalisation of international (2008) and national (2012) passenger transport, with member states being able to bring forward these dates. the commission and the ep are seeking to make progress in the process of liberalising and privatising rail transport before the so-called 'first' and 'second' packages have been fully implemented and the real impact of the measures, which are supposed to be negative both in terms of the services provided and the working conditions of railway workers, has been assessed. the aim of railway liberalization is to hand the railway industry over to the private sector, so that it can impose its law of profit, and even be heavily subsidized by the states. in defence of the public railway service and the working conditions of its staff, we have tabled a proposal to reject this directive.
in writing. although the commission and the council consider that turkey has formally fulfilled the last conditions for the opening of accession negotiations on 3 october 2005, the truth is that there are core issues that have not been taken into account, as the european parliament's own resolution states. one of the most important aspects concerns the protocol itself extending the ankara agreement to the ten new member states, which turkey has signed, but at the same time, together with the protocol, has issued a statement stating that the signing, ratification and implementation of this protocol does not represent any form of recognition of the republic of cyprus referred to in the protocol. that is an unacceptable position, which we disagree with. we also disagree with turkey's continued embargo on cypriot-flagged vessels and vessels from the republic of cyprus, denying them access to turkish ports, and on cypriot aircraft, denying them rights to fly over and land at turkish airports. our abstention from voting on the resolution is due to our disagreement with some of the points in the resolution, particularly where it considers that constitutional reforms are necessary to allow for the accession of any other new member states, as we believe that this is not an obstacle to enlargement.
in writing. the negotiating process with a view to turkey's eventual accession to the european union must follow normal procedures and be governed by clear and objective rules. i do not think there is any reason to treat this application differently. i have to say that i am not in favour of the motion for a resolution, but i am in favour of the motion for a resolution. on the one hand, by rejecting the amendment proposed by the ppe which expressly provided that ' (...) above all, (...) the open nature of the negotiations must be ensured from the outset, with constructive possibilities in parallel to full accession', parliament expressly refuses to include in its resolution a safeguard formula which i believe is essential since we must avoid that in future the mere opening of the negotiating procedure is invoked as the assumption of an actual commitment to accession. on the other hand, it is clear that the cyprus question is not well settled. turkey wants to join the european union but does not recognise the union as it is. it is impossible to adhere to what is not recognized, just as it is impossible to negotiate without being recognized. this negotiation is off to a bad start and for that reason i cannot support it.
in writing. the banking system is one of the fundamental pillars of our market economy and it is the duty of the public authorities to ensure that it operates under clear rules, is transparent and safeguards the interests of customers. in a market which is obviously not fully capable of being assessed by consumers, it is therefore for the public authorities to provide the necessary guarantees. in this context, the capital requirements of this proposal for a directive, and the version adopted by the committee on economic and financial affairs, are exactly contrary to what i consider to be the duties and proper concerns of the public authorities. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the concern for an efficient and careful control of the annual and consolidated accounts of undertakings, which the commission has expressed in the proposal it has submitted to the european parliament and which is clearly improved by some of the amendments introduced by this report, justifies my vote in favour. as has been shown, the current rules on this matter are not healthy for the economy and do not ensure the essential elements of such an important task: market transparency, freedom and independence of those who carry out the monitoring and effective monitoring. if that is not the case, it would be necessary to intervene in order to correct the legal framework for those purposes. as i said, i believe that this objective is achieved by the committee's proposal with the amendments introduced by this house.
in writing. in general, the report by mr jarzembowski has my support and that of the other portuguese socialist members, because we agree with the principle of opening up the market for international passenger transport services. but in the discussion we expressed reservations and opposition to the intention to bring forward the liberalisation of international transport, including cabotage, to 2008 and to liberalise national transport services from 1 january 2012. while it is true that the liberalization of international transport can help to revitalize rail transport, fostering its growth and opening up a process of greater balance vis-à-vis air and road transport, it is also true that as a result of a disorderly and inharmonious liberalization at european level, some member states, such as portugal, where specialised infrastructures such as high-speed links and their management model have yet to be put into practice, may suffer serious problems. in addition, public service provision in the area of transport, which has a significant impact on employment and economic growth, is to be ensured. we have therefore voted against all the provisions relating to liberalization in the above-mentioned form. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
in writing. if we read the demands of unice (the confederation of european employers) for the liberalisation of rail passenger transport (press release, 21.1.2005), we can see why the majority of the european parliament has now taken the position. unice, while welcoming the european commission's proposals for the new wave of railway liberalization, is calling for more, and faster. it calls for 'opening up markets' to be applied to all rail passenger transport and not just international transport, as envisaged at this stage in the commission's proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. we therefore regret that this new step in the liberalization of rail transport has not been rejected, as we propose, but we will continue to take action to defend the public rail transport service and the working conditions of its staff.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr jarzembowsi's report because i consider it to be an excellent piece of work in pursuing the objectives of revitalising rail transport by promoting competition and creating a genuine internal market for rail transport. our fight against the decline in rail transport market share must be fierce and it is therefore essential to reverse this trend by building a competitive and open rail market. the commission is proposing that railway undertakings should enjoy the right of access to the infrastructure of all member states for the operation of international passenger services by 1 january 2010 at the latest. the rapporteur opposes the inclusion of national services in the opening of the market in order to combat the inevitable reduction in the profitability of the international service and the serious obstacle to market entry which this would create. moreover, in the context of the opening of the networks for rail passenger transport, we have proposed to give member states the right to limit the opening of the network to individual cases in order to maintain the economic viability of a rail service of public interest. i believe that the main shortcomings of the commission's proposal have been filled in and i reiterate my opinion and vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the report by mr savary aims to clarify and simplify the commission's proposal for harmonized european conditions for the certification of train drivers with a view to opening up rail freight and passenger traffic. the proposal for a directive provides for a two-tier certification system for all train drivers and driving assistants on the entire european rail network. the mutual recognition of train drivers' training is an essential measure in promoting the free movement of workers, since by establishing common standards we facilitate and contribute to an increase in the employability of these workers. i therefore voted in favour of mr savary's report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr sterckx's report. the proposal for a regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers on international trains proposes minimum standards for passenger information before and during the journey, rules to be respected in the event of delay, for the handling of complaints and for the accompaniment of persons with reduced mobility. it seems to me that the establishment of these standards is clearly motivated by the need to establish rules which will ensure the quality of transport for the passenger. the text voted on today sought to improve the logic and readability of the text and to simplify certain wording and definitions. the essential point of the proposal in our view is the application of this framework of passenger rights and obligations to both domestic and international passengers. i also voted in favour of this report because it does not advocate overly detailed regulation, thereby leaving room for businessmen to take account of commercial aspects and to be encouraged to find other solutions in order to make rail transport more attractive to passengers.
in writing. almost a year and a half after the accession of ten member states, eight of which came from countries on the other side of the iron curtain, the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the creation of the solidarity trade union has a special significance. it was the work of courageous men, of men of freedom, but it was also the work of a time, a time of courageous politicians, of world leaders with vision and of a pope - it is impossible to omit it - with a genuine concern for the liberation of the human being. as lech walesa said in recent interviews, however heroic that move was - and it was - we must confess that we were far from imagining that 25 years later we would be sitting here with our colleagues from eight - in fact ten, since yesterday - of the countries then dominated by the soviet empire. let us remember this day not only as a tribute to the heroes of solidarity and poland, but as a symbol of the starting point for a process of liberation of an entire part of europe that was 'occupied'.
in writing. for a country, territorial cohesion means combating interregional economic and social disparities and agglomeration effects, i.e. promoting the harmonious and homogeneous development of its entire territory. in this context, territorial cohesion is an integral part of economic geography and is implicit in the objectives of any structural policy. their inclusion at community level, alongside the objective of economic and social cohesion, is only meaningful because for some the idea of a federal eu 'state' with a territory is underlying it. we therefore believe that the report should focus on regional disparities within each member state, which show a tendency to persist or increase, and on the need for new policies which, instead of promoting them, combat these disparities. this means promoting public services, developing the productive system, providing basic infrastructure (transport, communications, energy), establishing a wide network of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and a strategy to support the development of small and medium-sized urban centres in inland, rural and peripheral regions. all this requires increased resources and a real cohesion policy. we therefore regret the rejection of our proposals.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague ambroise guellec on his important and timely report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development, which i support, particularly as regards the need to apply this concept to the various community policies with a view to better coordinating european spatial planning and thus ensuring the success of enlargement and increasing the overall competitiveness of the eu. to define correctly the eu's intervention in this area and the degree of intervention in each region, the creation of new territorial criteria and indicators, in addition to gdp, to measure the development of a region and the obstacles to its development, such as specific territorial disadvantages, peripheral and accessibility problems, infrastructure and transport endowment, level of activity in research, innovation, education and training and level of diversification of productivity in the area is supported.
in writing. the importance of territorial cohesion in the european union and the need for union policies to seek to promote it is, in my view, self-evident. in fact, at the macro level - between the different countries - it is indeed one of the conditions and one of the reasons for the existence of the union itself. if this is true at this level, it will also be true at the more local level, since on the level of values there is no distinction between the two levels, on the contrary. i therefore think that the initiative of our colleague, ambroise guellec, is worthy of note, since, in addition to the enunciation of valid principles, there is here an identification of specific sectors and policies which can make a real contribution to greater territorial cohesion within the european union.
in writing. i voted for it and appealed to your approval. with different perspectives and approaches, we have come together in support of the strategy proposed by the commission for the sustainable development of the outermost regions, as regards priorities, instruments and, in particular, the creation of a 'specific programme to offset over-cost' and the establishment of a 'action plan for the outermost neighbourhood'. despite the overall agreement on the strategy, it has been subject to some criticism or reservations, as it does not clearly and adequately address the needs of the ors. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to insist on: (1) the differentiated treatment of the ors in terms of access to the structural funds under the reformed cohesion policy, given their specific conditions, and that priority financial support should be granted to them, regardless of their income level; (2) the strengthening of the budgetary allocation for the specific programme, to be distributed equitably, depending on the constraints affecting them; and (3) the clarification of the action plan under the future objective 'european territorial cooperation' of the reformed cohesion policy and the new union neighbourhood policy.
in writing. we believe that the report does not go as far as it should on two issues which are fundamental to us: the creation of a community programme for the outermost regions (orr) and the defence of the sovereignty of their exclusive economic zones (eez). we therefore proposed that the european commission be asked to set up a specific community programme to support the ors, with sufficient financial means (the financial resources proposed for the ors by the commission in its proposal for the 2007-2013 financial framework are insufficient and should be reinforced) to compensate for the permanent structural disadvantages (and not constraints as the rapporteur says) and to serve as a single instrument, including all existing dispersed measures. we also believe that in order to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources in the respective eezs and to preserve the fisheries activity in the octs, it is essential that the exclusive competence to access the octs' waters, in accordance with their national jurisdiction, be equivalent to their eez. finally, given that most of the territory of these regions is occupied by nature reserves and other protected areas, we consider it necessary to have permanent measures for the ors in this area. we regret that these proposals have been rejected by the majority of the ep.
in writing. as our colleague, mr sérgio marques, has rightly pointed out, the specific nature of the outermost regions - in the case of portugal there are two, which is particularly significant given the small size of the country - justifies the commission's taking the initiative in proposing policies directly aimed at these regions, with the aim of improving living conditions and boosting their economic capacity. the geographical specificity of the outermost regions does not necessarily place them at a disadvantage. or, to put it another way, it is not necessarily a reducing factor in development. it is enough to adopt the right policies, including some of those advocated in this report. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
the recent oil price developments have put the problem of peak oil on the agenda, in the face of the strong negative impacts on economic growth and employment, at a time when the european union's economy is almost stagnant. as writer and professor michael t. klare recently noted, the era of easy oil is over. this decline of the oil age is increasingly characterized by an increasing politicization of oil policy and the constant use of military force to gain control of available supplies. there are many examples, of which the war in iraq is one of the most visible. we believe that it is essential that the question of resource assessment and the effort to explore and develop hydrocarbons at european and world level be the subject of a thorough debate and that it would be wise to convene a conference within the framework of the un for a world approach to the global reduction of their consumption. it is necessary to look ahead and to invest in research, particularly to reduce the intensity of oil in relation to gdp, just as we must invest in other energy sources and in greater efficiency in the use of energy, which in several countries, particularly portugal, is one of the serious structural problems. the next financial perspective should give particular importance to this issue, also focusing on renewable energies.
for the gue/ngl group i too would like to say that the glass is half full, but everyone here knows that's not true. the summit was a failure. the summit reaffirmed the modest objectives of the millennium, but it was forbidden to turn words into action. someone prevented donor countries from committing to clear targets for financial aid. in concrete, what we have is a cup full of words and a hand full of nothing. the assembly also rehearsed pious votes against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, but many prevent a commitment to a disarmament strategy. without it, the nuclear club will inevitably continue to proliferate. the assembly also wanted a reform of the united nations, but someone did everything to keep things the same. this someone has a name, john bolton, the authoritative voice of the empire at the united nations. the commissioner referred to katrina. the tragedy of new orleans and the failure of new york are linked in a clear way by the us administration. in new orleans, the law is simple: whoever has a car is fine, whoever doesn't have a car is screwed. in the world the emperor has devised, it is the same. washington doesn't want to hear about the poor, because it doesn't care about its own, for the white house the poor are simply a waste of time and money. mr president, my group will vote in favour of the resolution because, although timid, it is going in the right direction, because we need a strong united nations and we value everything that can be done to achieve this. but we understand each other: we will only have a credible united nations when europe and the rest of the world send washington the right signals. today we have been talking a lot about turkey, and i would like to see the same arrogance towards washington.
i attended the second world conference of leaders of world parliaments, organised by the inter-parliamentary union, in new york on 7, 8 and 9 september, on behalf of the european parliament. in my address to the 145 delegations present, i had the opportunity to reaffirm the european parliament's recent positions, particularly on the reform of the united nations and the commitment to the millennium development goals. my message was amplified by the fact that all the european parliament's resolutions on these matters had previously been circulated to the national and regional political delegations. with regard specifically to the reform of the united nations, i had the opportunity to say that the european parliament fully supports the positions of the un secretary-general and, in particular, considers that world security cannot be dissociated from economic and social development, respect for human rights and protection of the environment. i also spoke of the need to change the composition of the security council, advocating the creation of a permanent seat for the european union in the long term and the immediate creation of new seats to allow for the representation of new countries and emerging regions. finally, on the united nations general assembly, i stressed not only the reform of working methods but, in the long term, the creation of a genuine parliamentary assembly of the united nations. i have intended to record this brief testimony in this debate, which also serves to document the reporting of the task i have been given to do before the european parliament.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0321/2005).
questions 9 to 38 will be answered in writing the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, the recent revision of the memorandum of understanding with china on 5 september is perhaps less of a bad thing today than a success. this review was the result of the commission's apparent inability to ensure compliance with the international agreements to which it is a party. the textile invasion from january 2005 was foreseeable and it is regrettable that the commission was not prepared to follow it up and was not sufficiently agile to react. on the other hand, to revise in september an agreement solemnly signed three months earlier discredits the european commission internationally and weakens it in relation to future negotiations. this weakness of the commission is worrying and has created a climate of uncertainty in the design of strategies for european companies, whether they are producers or importers, which must be tackled quickly. i therefore thank you, commissioner, for the straightforward answers to the following four questions: firstly, the commission has continued to regulate production in the european union, see the reach directive. what concrete plans does the commission have to ensure that the opening up of european markets is in fact accompanied by international compliance with minimum standards in the areas of human, environmental and labour rights? secondly, the high level group on textiles recommended, and the commission accepted, a set of policy actions aimed at accelerating the revival of the competitiveness of european textile regions. the commissioner mentioned them, but very briefly. what is the state of these initiatives and to what extent does their implementation depend on the financial perspective? thirdly, what assurance does the commission give that the september agreement will not suffer the same fate as the june agreement? what capacity and/or will has the commission developed in the meantime to follow up and enforce it? fourthly, given that the problems of footwear are very similar to those of textiles, can the commission confirm the rumours that anti-dumping measures are being prepared to be applied from 2006 onwards? thank you very much for your reply, commissioner.
the european commission was expected to do something new. it was hoped that concrete measures would be put forward, with adequate and urgent means, to give effect to the important proposals contained in the european parliament's resolution of 6 september. however, what we heard was more of the same. it was an attempt to justify the unjustifiable. let us remember: on 1 january, with the liberalisation of the textile and clothing sector, there was an exponential increase in imports into the european union. alert to the serious economic and social consequences, for example for portugal, that this would entail, and to the need for the rapid activation of the safeguard clauses provided for in trade agreements, the european commission, chaired by durão barroso, only regulated the application of these clauses on 6 april, but minimising the impact of their implementation. it was not until 17 may that it began consultations, and only on two categories of textile products, before presenting an agreement on 10 june which, in addition to abandoning the use of safeguard clauses, was a trap. once again, the absence of regulations for its implementation, which only came into force on 20 july, was used by the large european import and distribution multinationals to call into question the import limits agreed in june. in september the commission, echoing the interests of the large multinationals, quickly called into question what it had previously agreed itself, forcing millions of textiles and clothing articles into the country. the moral of the story is that the real beneficiaries of the liberalisation of the textile and clothing trade are the large importers and distributors who are increasing their profit margins to ever more exorbitant levels. the losers in european textile production are the workers and thousands of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. we support this resolution which is critical of the bilateral agreement on trade in wine signed on 14 september 2005 between the eu and the us, calling it 'insufficient' and 'inadequate'. the resolution reaffirms:- the defence of traditional production, family winemaking and the quality of our wines, the international recognition of the eu's protected traditional terms;- the establishment of a register of internationally recognised geographical indications and the inclusion of this objective among its main priorities in multilateral agricultural negotiations, including in the wto;- the recognition of the 17 appellations of origin included in annex ii, so that all european appellations of origin for wine are duly protected, as soon as possible, by the american authorities within their own market;- the need to strengthen community support measures to improve and promote the quality of community products in the context of the forthcoming reform of the common market organisation; it stressed that the agreement considerably weakens the eu's position in the wto negotiations on agriculture, as it calls into question the production zone-centred approach and the quality prevailing in much of the wine sector.
in writing. i would just like to stress that there was no point in the motion calling for urgent measures to support sectors which are being seriously harmed by the increase in fuel prices, but instead it stressed the 'importance of avoiding political intervention'. it should be recalled that, following the fishermen's statements on the consequences of the increase in fuel prices for the fisheries sector, the council of agriculture and fisheries ministers of 19 and 20 september, inexplicably, only once again 'took note' of the situation and did not decide on any measures to deal with the problem. as fishermen have warned, the increase in fuel prices is causing great difficulties for the sector, with the viability of many vessels at stake if immediate measures are not taken, such as financial support to minimise the increase in fuel costs. it should be noted that the increase in fuel prices is aggravating the already difficult situation of many small-scale fishermen who use petrol in their fishing activities, without any support to help mitigate the consequences of successive increases in this fuel. so, apart from other long-term measures, because they are urgent, immediate action is required.
in writing. in 1945, the world was emerging from the war and europe was in ruins. the un was founded on goodwill and hope, a sign of an effort to emancipate men, from a kind of tribal relationship of alienation and exclusion to a greater civilization that identifies us all with equal dignity and deals with difference through dialogue. the united nations, without a force that matched the size of its foundation, tried to sublimate the tensions of the cold war, in the forms of decolonization, in regional conflicts. an ever-permanent attempt to surpass itself, in its fabric of states, for peace. the european union too is rooted in the same moral design as the united nations: the values of peace, solidarity between peoples, democracy and the rule of law. the european union too is continuing to pursue its aims. in search of governance, of integrated coexistence, of transposing their humanitarian ideal to the world. in this crusade, reform of the european union is needed, reform of the un. multipolarity is achieved by deepening the political and legal dimension of the european union. i mean, the united nations needs a european constitution. it's the middle of great politics.
in writing. the resolution omits or implicitly supports the ambitions and efforts to transform the un into an instrument dominated by the big capitalist powers, led by the usa, whitewashing the aggressions and interferences of imperialism, if possible, concerted multilaterally. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the 'millennium development goals' are being recalled, but no progress is being made in achieving them, whether in reducing hunger, poverty, child mortality, or in ensuring access to water, health, education and the promotion of equality. there is no measure - blocked by the united states, with the complicity of its allies - for the disarmament and elimination of weapons of mass destruction. the resolution also stresses the federalist drift - defeated in the nos to the proposal for a new treaty for the eu - but which the resolution gives rise to when it refers to 'the prospect of obtaining a common european seat in the security council' and the 'merger' of the offices and delegations of the different countries in a 'common external delegation of the eu'.
in writing. the report seeks to take stock of the state of play of the policies and concrete actions developed by the different countries of the european union with regard to renewable energies. it considers that, although progress has begun, the policies and measures in place will not allow the previously set targets for the use of energy from renewable energy sources to be met. in this context, measures are proposed which - although with limits to real progress - seek to contribute to the reversal of the present situation. the main features are:- strengthening of qualified training and research and development in the subjects concerned;- greater autonomy for each member state as regards the objectives, options, sectors and technical solutions to be implemented;- greater decision-making autonomy and availability of means for local and regional authorities;- support for energy agencies at the various levels of intervention;- substantial strengthening of structural and cohesion funds and even of the cap (rural development) for this purpose; however, the report does not go into the fundamental question, namely the clear and explicit recognition of the reality of peak oil and the reduction in oil consumption and the need to exploit other sources of energy.
in writing. welcomes the timely report by mr claude turmes on the european commission's communication on the share of renewable energy in the european union, and agrees with the position on the extreme importance of renewable energy for the future of humanity, which highlights its environmental and health benefits. it also specifically agrees that the consolidation of the use of renewable energy as an alternative depends on a correct combination of political will and instruments applied at global levels, including the european union itself, national, regional and local levels.
in writing. road traffic has tripled in the last three decades, while the number of deaths has halved. however, road accidents remain the leading cause of death for people under 50. strong measures to promote road safety should therefore be taken. the report by mr vatanen, which i wholeheartedly support, welcomes the implementation of the third action programme on road safety, which aims to halve the number of deaths on european roads by 2010. the key role that the european road safety agency and an eu road safety framework (with performance indicators) could play in achieving the objectives of the 3rd road safety action programme is also highlighted. in the short term, therefore, drivers' behaviour must be improved through enforcement of legislation, enforcement campaigns, training and user education. in the long term, initiatives in the technological field (electronic security) and the increasing integration of electronic devices in 'smart vehicles' will contribute to achieving the objectives. finally, road infrastructure must be improved and adapted to current traffic levels.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the prospects for eu-china trade relations [2005/2015 (ini) ] (a6-0262/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 october 2005. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in nepal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon at 5 p.m.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in tunisia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon at 5 p.m.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on vojvodina.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this afternoon at 5 p.m.
the next item is the vote on motions for resolutions on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
is there any objection to the oral amendment?
i call the sitting of the european parliament to order. (the sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m.)
commissioner, more than your speech here, i have read with attention the communication which i think the commission adopted this morning and i would like to begin by congratulating you. you have succeeded in using simple language, in bringing together well-known but scattered concepts, instruments that have been tested or announced, and objectives that are also clear to everyone: the millennium development goals. he has fled sensationalism, the paragons and has preferred a coherent and simple approach which is, i must say, rare on these occasions. for that reason, commissioner, and because i know the difficulties of the job, i say to you that the way you have approached the problem gives you credibility and, more than the benefit of the doubt, as far as i am concerned, gives you my support. it is a matter of practical efficiency and simplicity, and it will be the greatest blessing for the cooperation policy between the european union and africa.
ceuta and melilla demonstrate that european practice for africa, despite the rhetoric, is failing. this is not a spanish-moroccan problem alone, nor can it be dealt with solely from the angle of controlling illegal migration. it is a problem for the whole union and it calls into question our credibility in the field of human rights. we really need, as commissioner louis michel has said - and i applaud him - a coherent strategy for africa. a strategy which makes our development policy more effective, by enabling us to achieve the objectives of the millennium declaration, which means giving it proper expression in the union budget and better coordination between the commission and the member states. it also means promoting fair trade and to that end reviewing the common agricultural policy, which has such a disastrous impact on developing countries. it also means fighting corruption - and this is a two-way street. we need a strategy that puts the european union at the forefront of the implementation of the new concept of the responsibility to protect, by increasing european capacity in peacekeeping and peacebuilding, in joint support of the action of the african union. and by fighting impunity for those responsible for crimes against humanity through the international criminal court and other tribunals. the test cases are already hissène habré, charles taylor and those responsible for darfur. we need a more effective europe in supporting electoral processes, civil society, ngos, democratic institutions, women's empowerment and good governance in africa. finally, we need a european union which promotes peace and security globally and which also stops terrorism in africa. the european union must not only tackle the root causes of terrorism, but also tackle once and for all the proliferation of weapons on the african continent. weapons exported, among others, by europeans, which thus fuel the conflicts that are destroying africa. ceuta, melilla and lampedusa are questioning the security of africa and our security as well. migrants and refugees who run, run because they are desperate! they also despair at the silence and inaction of europe. as in the western sahara conflict. it is this desperation and anger that feeds the hosts of international terrorism, whose recruits are able to penetrate, no matter how much europe builds walls on its borders.
on behalf of the pse group .– mr president, last time i took the floor i said i was very much concerned. i still am. there were indeed very interesting developments since 1 october 2005 with negotiations being engaged, then brokered with the assistance of donor countries and ambassadors. however, according to my information, a stalemate still exists despite the fact that the ethiopian parliament has already been convened. the conduct of business, according to my information, is very deficient in terms of democratic standard. i appreciate the statement by commissioner michel and i appreciate the efforts he has been making. i wish the council and the british presidency, in particular, would also give us their views on how things are working and if they think that their approach is effective. i am particularly concerned and i am aware of the special relationship the british presidency holds with our allies on the other side of the atlantic. the unity of the international community and of the donor communities in this respect is essential. i would like to hear the council’s approach on this. i will not go further as i am still the head of the european union election observation mission in ethiopia. naturally, i may make other comments after i deliver my final report. however, it is only proper that this parliament shows that it cares and that it continues to closely monitor the situation in ethiopia.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you very much for the essentially positive and recommending positions which will subsequently lead to decisions on recommendations - i emphasize, recommendations, which actually mean that the states are empowered and entitled to decide. we'll meet at the level of the education ministers in november. i believe that this period is a crucial second half for the bologna process, for example, where the credibility of the whole bologna process is strongly linked to the quality that can be trusted through the proposed system. and so all of this is very important for the future of european higher education, for its attractiveness, for its position in the world, and of course i agree with many, mr. janovský said, that this is the higher goal, that europe becomes attractive again, that it becomes a reference point or a space for world issues or debate or policy reform in education. one question from mrs prets was specifically directed to austria and the situation there. the situation at university level is affected by the european court of justice's decision of july this year. it is primary union law, the treaty plus the case law of the court of justice, and it is important that the states implement the treaties as we have agreed. what the commission is able and willing to share, however, is its expertise, some help in finding ways of moving forward in such a way that they fulfil the treaty on european union on the one hand and respond to the specific problems or difficulties we are experiencing in mobility on the other. however, it is too early to conclude this discussion, as the working group has just started between experts from the european commission and the member states, including austria. so much for my part, thank you, not just for the report, but for the proposal which supports the commission's proposal, albeit with some modifications, but retains the original character and meaning.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the amendments made by the committee on culture and education have now led to the text being voted for in the plenary with a strong vote in favour. another preliminary point: education policies are the exclusive responsibility of the member states. this choice, which is enshrined in the existing treaties, is not mine, but, regardless of this opinion, it is possible, with the rules in place, to do more and much better for the integration of immigrant communities through education systems. this is the aim of this report. mr president, the flow of migration within and outside the community cannot be stopped. even if the politicians wanted it that way. we also know that the migrations of recent decades have created new challenges to identity. these challenges are all the more difficult as the living and integration conditions of the new communities deteriorate. finally, unemployment in europe adds to the feeling of insecurity that exists today in muslim communities. it does little good to explain that the number of immigrants does not affect the unemployment rate or that it is immigrants who make the buildings that nations are proud of. in a context of a spiral between war and terrorism, reasoned and rational argumentation has little effect. we live in a time of demagogy, populism and fundamentalism. this being the case, it is up to europe and the states to define integration policies. they are the only valid alternative to both ghettoization and attempts at forced assimilation of communities with behaviours and habits different from those in the countries of destination. the proposals in this report are based on a simple idea: equal educational rights are due to the number and the number of people living in our cities, regardless of their colour, sex, language, religious beliefs or legal status. the first consequence of this choice is recognised by the acquis communautaire itself. school systems must ensure that immigrants and their descendants learn not only the language of the country of destination but also their mother tongues. since 1977, a community directive has recognized this right for intra-community immigrants. it's time to extend it to the communities that are coming in from other stops. mr president, allow me to speak now about good practice. some members of this house have their children in the european schools which the union has set up to facilitate the integration of its officials. in these schools, language and content learning is integrated. one thinks and studies not only in the language of the country of destination but also in one's mother tongue. i think everyone is proud of the quality of this multilingual education. it prepares our children to face their future without fear. that's how it's right. but it needs to be added that what we want for our children cannot be the luxury of luxurious immigrants. it should be a horizon for european education systems. in the city of hamburg i was able to see how this system is successfully applied to public schools. nine primary schools have classes where german children mix with children of a second mother tongue. the teaching is carried out in both languages with two teachers per class. after five years, immigrant parents try to put their children in these classes anyway, even if they live on the other side of town. portuguese, italian, spanish, polish and turkish citizens are benefiting from this pilot project. it's worth it! this pedagogical project is not universally applicable and does not exhaust the map of multilingual educational proposals, but anticipates the future. and it is anticipation of the future that this report is talking about. the creation of a european network of schools to which projects for integrated language and content learning can be submitted is the third relevant proposal in this report. the truth is that bilateral agreements between states are subject to severe constraints of a budgetary nature and even of political will. the allocation of a budgetary appropriation in the lifelong learning programme specifically for the promotion of this network unlocks the will and gives new impetus to education policies based on multilingualism. it's the least we can do!
on behalf of the pse group. because of poverty 1,200 children die every hour. because of poverty, the world loses about 900,000 children every month. according to a 2005 un report, the number of children dying each month from poverty is equivalent to three times the number of victims of the tsunami that struck southwest asia in december 2004. every day, thousands and thousands of people die because of poverty, mostly children and women. despite the 2000 millennium development goals to reduce child mortality, the target will not be met by a difference of 4.4 million. yet, the world's 500 richest individuals have a combined income greater than that of the 416 million poorest people. the 2.5 billion people who live on less than two dollars a day, and represent 40 percent of the world's population, represent only five percent of the world's income. the millennium declaration contains the promise to halve poverty within 15 years. yet, the gap between rich and poor continues to widen. there is much to be done to lift so many women and children out of poverty. just one example: microfinance instruments, including microcredit, have proved effective in combating poverty, and it has been women who have made the most and best use of microcredit, succeeding in improving the economic situation of their families. women who are unemployed or on low incomes and therefore do not have access to conventional financial institutions. in europe too, according to eurostat data, 16% of the population were at risk of poverty in 2003. there are about 70 million poor citizens in europe at 25. we have therefore tabled a proposal on behalf of the socialist group to amend this report to introduce a guaranteed minimum income, similar to the one already in place in my country, portugal, as a means of effectively combating poverty, and especially poverty among women. poverty leads to trafficking in women and children, sexual slavery, violence, school dropouts, child labour, children at risk, fundamentalism and even terrorism. preventing poverty is about building a more just and secure society, also for the rich.
it is not enough to lament the dire poverty of many tens of millions of women in the 25 member states of the european union. it is not enough to say that the poverty, social exclusion and misery in which more than 72 million people in the european union live is a violation of human rights and has a female face. we need to demand a radical change in the economic and social policies that are aggravating unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and increasing inequalities in the distribution of income. a radical break with neoliberal policies and the guidelines of the european central bank is urgently needed. the stability pact must be replaced by a growth and employment pact and a genuine strategy for economic and social development must be promoted, by putting an end to the privatisation of public services and social security, by ensuring incomes that provide social welfare and access to public health systems that naturally include health care and all the care that women need. only then will it be possible to guarantee quality employment with rights, with wages that give dignity to those who work, and to guarantee the realization of all the human rights to which women are entitled.
in writing. the euro is one of the most widely used currencies in international transactions and as such is one of the most at risk of being counterfeited. the union has been taking the necessary measures to ensure that the circulation of the euro is protected by effective and uniform mechanisms against criminal counterfeiting activities. although counterfeiting rates remain high, the anti-counterfeiting measures are having a very significant effect, with the total number of operations in which counterfeit euro banknotes were seized increasing by 20% between 2003 and 2004, while counterfeiting of banknotes, e.g. 100 euro banknotes, was reduced by 38%. it is therefore clear that the surveillance, training and technical assistance measures which are indispensable for the adequate, uniform and effective protection of the euro against counterfeiting must be continued. i therefore support the proposal to extend this programme, as well as all the excellent amendments proposed by the rapporteur, because only a stable financial framework will make it possible to pursue the objectives set out in the programme, especially in view of the needs resulting from the integration of the new member states into monetary union.
in writing. relations between the european union and switzerland are, of course, governed by special rules. in all likelihood, switzerland would very easily become a member of the european union, since it fulfils all the criteria for membership. it turns out that this has not been the will of the swiss. it also happens that for geographical reasons switzerland is effectively at the centre of europe and the european union. there are therefore all the advantages of concluding agreements with our neighbour such as the ones in question, which make the relationship between the 25 member states and switzerland simpler and more fluid, in that they make life easier for the citizens of both sides. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i welcome the work done by the rapporteur on this subject. i think it is a very balanced report, which clarifies and improves fundamental points which were not explained in the commission's version. the measures presented are in the overall interest of the fisheries sector. in addition to the fisheries management bodies of the new member states, the report is based on the opinions of the processing sectors and other fisheries representatives, which are essential for a better assessment of the measures to be implemented. the proposals adopted today are designed to adapt equipment used in other marine environments to the conditions of the baltic sea, which has very specific characteristics and therefore requires specific measures. despite my positive criticism, i shall be particularly attentive to the question of driftnets and other entangling equipment on marine mammals. by completing the results of the studies by 2008, action should be taken accordingly, including consideration of suspending the use of this technology.
in writing. the fisheries issue is fundamental to my country and even though i am not directly involved in this case, i have followed this report closely, as i consider the protection of species and the preservation of this important sector of activity for several countries in the union to be of the utmost importance. i welcome the participation of the new member states of the baltic sea in the amendments to this legislation. the added information is crucial. consultation with representatives of the fisheries and processing sectors is also essential to anticipate possible shortcomings in the provisions on conservation of resources. the baltic sea is a sea with very particular characteristics. this report has sought to combine with care and attention not only the question of the preservation of ecosystems but also the social question linked to this activity. it is also worth noting the importance of this proposal for the development of fisheries in the baltic - in particular with regard to the maintenance of fish stocks - which lacks a full knowledge of the situation and its problems for a final decision. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr chimielewski's report.
in writing. although the european parliament's report is better than the european commission's text, the truth is that it is based on some conceptions, which we consider negative, about the development of higher education. one example is the creation of networks of national and european evaluation and accreditation agencies - public and private - whose evaluations and their results may have consequences for the licensing, funding, student support and 'reputation' of institutions, although this is not explicitly stated. the opening up of valuation to private individuals indicated the creation of a new business, opening the door to greater influence of capital on the institutions, their programmes, objectives and social strategy. a web of interests could be created between agencies, states, institutions and economic powers in each country, with the aim of ensuring evaluation criteria that favour the best possible evaluation of their institutions and harm poorly ranked institutions and education systems. they can thus favour the predominance of economic criteria, enhancing certain 'qualities' and helping to create even more difficulties for those who already have them - in addition to disregarding the national and public dimension of higher education - accentuating the trend towards the elitisation and commodification of higher education in europe.
in writing. the quality of higher education is and will always be a priority for the european union. to achieve this objective it is essential to promote the mutual recognition of quality assurance systems and quality assessments in europe. many member states have already made progress in this area. however, much remains to be done and much remains to be done to develop the european university area. universities should improve their quality level by systematically introducing internal mechanisms and their relationship with external quality assurance systems. the implementation of these quality assurance systems is also a major step towards the much-needed mutual recognition of university qualifications and degrees in europe.
in writing. the quality of higher education in europe is a key factor in our strategies for growth and development worldwide. the much-desired mutual recognition of university qualifications and degrees in europe requires optimal conditions to ensure the quality and continuous improvement of university establishments. this is why this proposal is so interesting, because it adopts concrete measures for a more efficient, more transparent and more attractive european higher education system for students and scientists. i therefore voted in favour of mrs novak's report.
in writing. much could be written about the relations, particularly trade, between the various countries in the european union and china, a country with a population of about 1.3 billion. despite the balanced aspects of the report - for example, the establishment of 'trade relations in a spirit of cooperation and complementarity, while ensuring that both sides can preserve and develop their industries, agriculture and respective services in harmony, in order to ensure the best possible living conditions for all their people' - the report is characterized by the apology of capitalism, capitalist competition and the liberalization of trade relations, particularly in the context of the wto. hence the demands for 'opening up markets', in particular the liberalisation of 'financial markets', the reform of the 'economic system' and the 'embrace' of the 'market economy' - i.e. the implementation of capitalism - the 'acceptance of the legal and economic system' of the european union by china. hence the acceptance of all the european union's cheating - with the agreement of the ps government - in the textile and clothing sector, to the taste of the interests of the big importers and distributors. which is unacceptable.
in writing. the trade relations between china and the european union are a reality that must first of all be faced head on. the idea that the flow of goods from china can be reduced is an illusion. it is just as illusory to think that we can compete with this huge producer on the basis of a similar economic model based on low wages or unskilled labour. without abandoning our industries, without giving up production, without abandoning our citizens, we must act with a clear view of the future development of this trade relationship and its consequences for the european economy. and we must also seek to achieve a fundamental objective by increasing trade: the democratization of china, where respect for human rights is anything but commendable and where foreign policy is designed in obedience to a logic of expansionism of its influence, ignoring the objectives - ours and those of our allies - of the expansion of democracy and respect for human rights. let us therefore make trade a platform for development. that must be our challenge.
in writing. i would like to leave two recommendations to the european commission. first, the home front. globalisation is a new reality, the effects of which cannot be contained by protectionist measures. globalization has its positive aspects, but there is one side to it that we should not ignore. we must act swiftly and vigorously in the sectors and regions most affected at social level. i recommend that the commission prepare specific programmes for these regions. now the outside front. since joining the wto, china has never played by the rules. the goc continues to pursue export aid policies; they artificially devalue the currency; they violate environmental standards; they do not respect workers' rights; fail to ensure that health and safety standards are in place; they use child labor and forced labor. in textiles, they have repeatedly and flagrantly violated the commitments they have accepted with the eu's approval. i therefore recommend that the european commission press for the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards in trade agreements with the respective system for verifying their application. globalization has its winners and losers. defeat is bitter, but to lose because the opponent has not respected the most elementary rules of the game is revolting and unacceptable.
in writing. the internal situation in iran has been a matter of sincere concern for many years. whether at purely domestic level, whether at regional level, whether even at the global level, iran and its policy of disregard for human rights, disregard for the values of freedom and democracy and, most basic of all, its disregard for human life, has been a strong factor of instability of enormous gravity. against this background, iran's nuclear activities are a further cause for concern. the european union has recently pursued an active diplomatic policy and has openly cooperated with the iranian authorities in the hope of achieving results. you can hardly say that you have succeeded. the resolution adopted today is another effort in the same direction, but it is beginning to raise the question whether this is the only way forward, whether it is not necessary to extend the international alliance in such a way that, by means of diplomacy, iran is forced to comply with its international obligations and to respect minimum standards at national level. we will keep our eyes open.
in writing. in its relations with the various countries of the international community, and particularly with the african countries, europe must accept once and for all that without democratization - and all that goes with it - all efforts at cooperation and aid are at least unproductive and may even be counterproductive. in the case of ethiopia, where the legitimate expectations of a people who have suffered for decades have recently been betrayed, it is our duty to do everything possible to make the road to democracy a reality. africa cannot be a territory where lawless governments are accepted as if nothing could be done to prevent it. in this sense, the message that this resolution sends to ethiopia must be clearly understood. finally, let us act first and foremost in the name of our principles and in the name of the people. but let us be clear, let us do it also in the name of our own interest. africa cannot be a continent from which its disenfranchised understandably want to flee.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bono report on education as a cornerstone of the lisbon process because, ' (1) in order to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, in order to establish a knowledge society, the member states must make a clear commitment to lifelong learning and training, thus contributing to job creation in europe. 2.this report stresses the need to place greater emphasis on education in european policies, promoting de-bureaucratization and mobility through mutual recognition of qualifications and universal and non-discriminatory access to european educational institutions.
in writing. this report confirms a number of the criticisms we have made, namely:- the failure of the european project to converge towards higher standards in education as well as the education system itself in several countries;- the crisis of the current productive activity of the current economic and social fabric which is reflected in employment and is reflected in unreasonable pressures on performance in the education system. the commission is proposing some positive measures, in particular 'to ensure a 15% increase in the number of graduates in scientific sectors by 2010', which should be taken into account in portugal. it also stresses the need for member states to 'increase the number of teachers and to create quality initial and continuing teacher training', which is positive. it also points to the financial bottleneck felt in most countries, which is important, especially in view of the situation in portugal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, it advocates the neoliberal approach envisaged in the lisbon strategy, with all the negative consequences already known, particularly in education and vocational training. that is why we abstained.
in writing. what will make us more competitive, more efficient, more productive will be our special ability to research, to innovate, to create. what will bring europe back to economic growth and development is, as is widely recognised, the commitment to the development of human resources. in this sense, investment in training is the most productive investment, even if only in the medium/long term. it is becoming increasingly late to believe, realistically, that the objectives of the lisbon agenda will be achieved in time. it is not just time that is running against us, it is above all we who have been running against reality, and if we insist on doing so, the result risks being serious. correcting this process requires measures with short-term, but also medium- and long-term objectives. as i said, investing in training is a medium- to long-term measure with enormous potential for effectiveness. we must therefore focus on the qualification of our human resources, because that is our model of development.
in writing. an integration policy is more than a policy of tolerance. integration is active and inclusive, provides communication, values difference and is part of the a priori of equality in dignity. tolerance is merely the recognition and acceptance of the other as a stranger. kant already rejected this idea of tolerance which, truly, does not allow the point of view of conceiving ourselves in the place of the other, which is the point of view of justice. europe, perceived as a "virtuous attraction", is this homeland of values, this intersection of an identity based on cosmopolitan law and national identities with strong traditions that recognise it. plurality is its defining element, not its potential for dissolution. that is why europe provides the ideal political framework for cultural diversity. immigration must have a human response to its causes. but let us now consider this subject of language. language teaching is the most basic prerequisite for human communication, for a civic majority, for awareness and the exercise of rights. without such communication, europe will fall short of its civilizational project, that is, it will be nothing more than a system of open doors into which one never really enters.
in writing. in immigration matters the key word is integration. the willingness, the mutual, the integration, the capacity, the mutual, the integration. the rapporteur is talking about something of the greatest interest, but it is worth setting priorities. i understand and share the concerns of the rapporteur, but i cannot help but focus my attention on this idea of integration capacity, which presupposes strict rules on entry and stay controls, for two reasons: firstly, because the existence of bounties for breaking the law is above all an incentive to illegal immigration and the networks that benefit from it; secondly, because illegal immigration is itself an unsustainable challenge to our capacity for integration. that said, in the field of education, the active integration of immigrants and their children is the most urgent concern. the arrival of new and different cultures is a positive factor, but this cannot mean that we no longer want those who arrive to integrate first and foremost, and to integrate means to accept the culture of the host country. obviously, school is an excellent place to do so. and, as is also obvious, the more bi-univocal that movement is, the better. but we still don't know where he should start.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pack report on the new challenges facing the circus as an integral part of european culture because: the commission should therefore contribute to the recognition of this activity as part of european culture by drawing up rules to ensure that it is preserved.
in writing. the circus, with all the imagination associated with it, deserves my utmost respect and i would even say, if the term is allowed, even affection. in addition, some of the questions raised by our colleague, the rapporteur, particularly those relating to employment, are certainly relevant. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. the urban dimension should be present in a regional development policy. the existence of small and medium-sized towns in inland, peripheral and rural regions is a factor in the development of these regions and helps to combat interregional disparities and the agglomeration effects of large urban centres within each country. as cities are the enablers of development, they too, because of the economic, social and spatial planning policies currently being pursued, concentrate complex problems ranging from congestion to housing needs, from pollution to social exclusion. a policy of urban renewal and rehabilitation is therefore essential. in this field, cohesion policy could contribute with a community initiative, such as the 'urban' concept, with adequate financial means. for example, it is possible to evaluate possible additional community support for the construction of social housing. unfortunately, that is not the case. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a good one. despite this consideration and our rejection of the 'role of cities' or the so-called 'urban dimension' being placed at the service of the neoliberal lisbon agenda, we support the report in general terms.
in writing. the question of cities is not a matter for the union. however, like so many other issues, tourism, for example, has been directly or indirectly affected by multiple community policy interventions. in particular, the urban question is treated with caution in regional policy, in the framework of the structural and cohesion funds. i believe that the union's action must be complementary, helping to ensure that the actions of the member states can be fully developed for the benefit of the people. we must therefore invest in programmes which have contributed to a balanced relationship between the different levels of decision-making. given that the gap between rural and urban areas is very wide in the 10 new member states, it is essential that the urban networks of the 10 new member states be integrated into the urban system of the entire community territory, in particular by improving the transport networks of cities with their regions and between cities themselves, for the development and progress of the european union itself. i therefore voted in favour of mr beaupuy's report.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report because it incorporated some of our proposals and because the text presented was improved in the vote in plenary. i would like to stress the following from our approved proposals: defence of access to high quality jobs, and in particular to fair and reasonable pay, which is a way of preventing and combating poverty; the committee also notes that parttime work and low-quality employment, which mainly affect women, contribute to increasing the number of women among the working poor, and points out that this is a source of social exclusion. on the other hand, some of its most negative aspects have been excluded, so that the final resolution, even if partial, does not deal in depth with the causes of poverty or the basic measures needed to combat it, but draws attention to serious social problems which particularly affect women.
in writing. the problem of combating poverty and social exclusion in the european union is a subject which has been the subject of much discussion and which is included not only in the millennium development goals but also in the objectives inherent in european ideals. this report is the first in the new europe to focus more specifically on women's poverty. why women? the truth is that we are confronted with impressive data of greater vulnerability in female populations to extreme poverty and various types of exclusion. for these reasons, this parliament has considered it important to look at this phenomenon and to propose the development of indicators and a methodology which can help to combat this problem effectively, not only through partnerships with the poorest women, but above all through measures to ensure that our societies contribute to the reconciliation of family life and working life in disadvantaged environments. we can thus help to combat poverty, which we must now regard as a violation of human rights and a reality that must be abolished immediately. i therefore voted in favour of mrs zaborska's report.
mr president of the european parliament, i would like to express my most vehement protest at the way in which the spanish civil guard treated a portuguese delegation of 16 buses which travelled to salamanca on 15 october to take part in a demonstration and an act of solidarity with cuba and venezuela on the sidelines of the ibero-american summit, which was held in that spanish city. despite the cooperation of the hundreds of portuguese members of this delegation, the spanish civil guard used every expedient to delay the arrival of the buses in salamanca, trying to prevent these hundreds of portuguese from taking part in the demonstration of solidarity with cuba and venezuela. it was an unacceptable act of political discrimination, since only the buses of this caravan were stopped, and several times, and all the individual data of the participants were recorded.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the report by mrs lissy gröner, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the 'youth in action' programme for the period 2007-13. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. annex - position of the commission
the next item is the report by mr vasco graça moura, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the 'culture 2007' programme (2007-2013) (com (2004) 0469 - c6-0094/2004 - 2004/0150 (cod)) (a6-0269/2005).
the rapporteur. we recognize ourselves as europeans, despite all our differences, thanks to european culture. it represents a common and dynamic heritage in which identity and linguistic diversity are linked by a complex matrix in which the greek-latin, the judeo-christian and the mediterranean-muslim traditions are combined, without, however, these three vectors exhausting the picture of the elements that make it up. in order to promote the construction of europe, special attention must be paid to culture, the restoration of the common heritage and the promotion of diversity in order to strike a balance between centrifugal and centrifugal forces. this is by giving full weight to the common heritage and allowing the union's more than 400 million citizens to get to know each other better in their specific cultural and linguistic identities. it would be manifestly wrong to talk about cultural integration in europe. one of the most fascinating aspects of our civilization is precisely that europe must assume itself as a common unity and a unity realized in and by the diversity of its openings to man and the world. culture 2007-13 must first and foremost be the framework programme not for integration but for intensive cultural communication between the citizens of europe and at the level of europe and its values. all this means that european cultural policies must be pursued with a systematic view of european added value, otherwise they will lose all meaning and end up being indistinguishable from national cultural policies. but it also means that cooperation between the european institutions, the member states, the cultural agents and cooperators of each of them and their transnational networks is essential in the pursuit of common cultural policies. the culture programme 2007-2013 is a third generation programme. it takes account of the experience of previous ones and seeks more appropriate solutions in the face of that experience. i should like to say that i personally would have preferred a form corresponding to that of the first generation - raphael, ariane and kaleidoscope - which was clearly defined in its areas of art, literature, the performing arts and cultural heritage. resources are scarce, the number of applications for grant support is increasing and policies, to be truly effective, should be focused on a few very clear and very well defined objectives, even at the expense of other possibilities. but hopefully the new device will work and bring a more rigorous and positive contribution to this area. we are trying to improve the commission's proposal and make some corrections to it, to make it more appropriate to the purpose in view, to enshrine more clearly the dimension and importance of the common cultural heritage, without prejudice to contemporary creation. with all due respect to commissioner figel, i must say that it is not in the european commission's interest to refuse to make an explicit reference to an aspect which has to do with cultural heritage, the gigantic living heritage, both tangible and intangible, which has accumulated over the centuries and which has contributed so much to defining us as europeans. this is not a purely sectoral issue. we are talking about a matrix, a dimension common to all sectors, and that is fundamental. we also believe that provisions for the preservation of european memory sites linked to the sinister memory of totalitarian violence, both nazi and stalinist, would be better placed in the 'education for citizenship' programme. both this understanding and the acceptance of it by the european commission were formally expressed in the minutes of the parliamentary committee. finally, mr president, i should like to mention a very worrying point: the budget. the figures in the böge report are merely indicative. they were still taken into account. whereas in that report the figure for this programme was eur 566 million, we have put it at eur 600 million, because the böge report itself provided for a reserve to enable this to be done. this is a very modest sum! all the european leaders, those of the european commission including its president and commissioner for culture, those of parliament including the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and a great many colleagues, and those of the council including practically all the ministers for culture, have long been in favour of the need to increase the budget substantially in this area. the union has grown from 15 to 25 member states. european unity implies more and more intensive action in the field of culture. the lisbon strategy itself will be a dead letter if european cultural policies are left to languish without achieving their objectives, which are linked both to the common cultural heritage and to cultural and linguistic diversity in the member states. there can be no lisbon strategy if we do not know each other better. without knowing each other better, in the variety of our historical, cultural and linguistic identities, we cannot really cooperate with each other in a common design. this can only be achieved by cultural policies which aim at european added value and are equipped with the necessary means to achieve this. i therefore propose that we vote on the report which i have had the honour to endorse and which also contains a whole series of useful contributions from my colleagues from the various political quarters in the parliamentary committee on culture.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, for the commission and the council, culture is a problem of visibility for the european union. this has been and remains the real aim of the culture programme. the first merit of the graça moura report is that it departs from this view which exploits cultural creation for political purposes. but this is not the only merit, because the commission and the council want maximum visibility with minimum resources, so they concentrate support on a few actions, bodies and initiatives. it's a bad call. in the name of visibility, europe has been missing from so many projects that need it. secondly, this is what the report also proposes to correct in its own way. it promotes projects for up to two years, simplifies procedures for financial support, focuses on the transparency of calls for proposals and introduces the promotion of heritage and linguistic diversity into the programme's objectives. that's more than enough reason to vote for it. the financial perspective is still blocked by the british presidency. the priorities of tony blair, as we know, are different, but i think everyone here agrees on one point: the proposed €600 million for this programme is the bare minimum if the union is to present itself to creators and producers of culture as an institution which still puts some value on the words it speaks. i hope that the members of the committee on culture will be able to assess the final proposal in the light of this value and that the council will understand the message.
, in writing. since july this year azerbaijan has started air flights between its capital and the turkish-occupied northern part of cyprus. as the cypriot members of this parliament, and in particular our group, have pointed out, these flights are being carried out in violation of the principles of civil aviation and international law. it should be noted that this is not the only example of an attempt to impose in practice recognition of the turkish military occupation of part of cyprus and the so-called 'turkish republic of northern cyprus', which is not recognised by the united nations. the european parliament itself recently decided to set up a 'contact group for relations with the northern part of cyprus', an initiative which our group has criticised. the european union has also taken steps to ensure that the cyprus problem is not simply a question of the political situation in the country, but also of the political situation in the region. that is why we are voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the johannes blokland recommendation for second reading on the 'transfer of waste' because this regulation is necessary for waste shipments to be really safe, that is to say, to pose no risk to the environment.
in writing. the second reading only took up some of the amendments which the council did not accept. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. among the rejected proposals are such important issues as information and transparency, which have now been taken up again. the commission also reiterates its proposal to keep animal by-products and other waste within the scope of the directive. parliament is therefore seeking to ensure that its transfer is done in a correct and responsible manner. however, the necessary majorities were not reached to avoid some derogations and to include other equally important proposals, notably some put forward by the greens. examples are ship dismantling and the need to ensure that it is carried out in a safe and environmentally sound manner to protect human health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted.
in writing. it is important that the rapporteur acknowledges, as can be seen in the pisa 2003 report, that there are still huge disparities in the performance of education systems in the different member states, despite all the community initiatives which claimed to be making progress towards greater equality. we also agree that full attention should be paid to promoting language teaching and learning and cultural diversity in education and training. but we still have a number of criticisms of the content of the european commission's proposal which the report, while seeking to mitigate, does not respond effectively, by maintaining some underlying orientation of the neoliberal policies which are increasingly having an impact on education and training. starting from an integrated programme for the period 2007-13, which is subdivided into six distinct sub-programmes (comenius, erasmus, leonardo da vinci, grundtvig, transversal and jean monnet), the overall amount proposed is low in view of the scope and diversity of situations covered. hence, even small increases in grants remain insufficient to ensure participation by young people and other people of low economic means.
in writing. the four community education and vocational training programmes: socrates, leonardo da vinci, the action programme for the promotion of bodies active at european level and support for specific activities in the field of education and training, and the e-learning programme expire at the end of 2006. given the importance of education and training in creating a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in europe, and the effectiveness and added value of european cooperation programmes in this field, the european commission proposes, in preparation for the next generation of programmes for the period 2007-13, to establish an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning, divided into 6 distinct sub-programmes. they are generally extensions of existing programmes and actions. i fully support this report which shows the quality of the commission's proposal which, building on past achievements, proposes more ambitious objectives for the new programme, requiring a substantial increase in funds.
in writing. the importance of education and training in creating a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in europe is widely recognised. the report by mrs pack focuses mainly on the necessary simplification measures in the context of the community's education and vocational training programmes. community action in this area has contributed to the definition of quality indicators in education and encouraged the dissemination of good practice. the existing community instruments are of course complementary to the action of the member states and in this context the commission proposal aims to rationalise the existing instruments. we are faced with a well-conceived proposal which rationalizes the community's instruments, increases their coherence and synergies and makes them more effective. the commission is therefore proposing more ambitious targets, requiring a substantial increase in funds. i voted in favour of this report, believing that these programmes also contribute to the improvement of education and training systems throughout the eu.
in writing. this report significantly improves the youth in action programme for the period 2007-13 and seeks to take account of some of the criticisms made of the previous youth programme in the context of its mid-term review and the consultation process, in particular as regards the structure, which is now more flexible and with less red tape in the submission of requests for financial resources. however, the financial framework proposed by the european commission is very limited, so we supported the report's proposal to increase the available budget substantially, just as we considered it positive that it had been made clear that the promotion of the fundamental values we want to promote among young people are, in particular, respect for human dignity, equality, respect for human rights, tolerance and non-discrimination. we also welcome the amendments which seek to give greater attention to the following aspects: equality between women and men and the fight against discrimination; the fight against all forms of exclusion and discrimination, including on grounds of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, in accordance with the provisions of article 13 of the treaty. that is why we are voting in favour of the report, despite some of the shortcomings in the programme.
in writing. i give my full support to this report on the community programme 'youth in action'. the rapporteur generally agrees with the european commission's proposal, but suggests some amendments, in particular the insufficient financial framework for the implementation of the 'youth in action' programme in the period in question; support for interactive and innovative seminars for young people; the regular organisation of the european youth week; and the aim of ensuring equal participation of disadvantaged young people in the programme, avoiding discrimination. it is recalled that the 'youth in action' programme will succeed the current 'youth' programme and will be more simplified. the formulation of the proposal was preceded by a broad consultation process, as provided for in the white paper on youth policy, and reflects to some extent the initiative of the heads of state or government to create a 'european pact for youth'. the 'youth in action' programme, which covers five actions with a total budget of €915 million, will come into force in january 2007 and will be managed in a decentralised manner, with centralised projects managed by an executive agency.
in writing. this report seeks to improve in some respects the new programme the commission proposes for the cultural sector for the period 2007-13. thus, taken as a whole, this document is, like others in the cultural field, markedly ambivalent and potentially with contradictory results. on the one hand, it can be an opportunity not only to stimulate cultural (artistic and scientific) creation, research and dissemination, but also to democratize (and not only to massify) access to cultural enjoyment and creation. on the other hand, even through (or competitively through) some positive results, it may mean a form of mass acculturation, the search for an obedient culture, or a new step in the constitution of a cultural and ideological hegemony. however, i think it will be on the ground that much will be decided. it is true that the aim of promoting the transnational mobility of cultural operators may correspond to a desire for internationalisation, or to what in the work of culture aspires to dialogue and universalization, but it may also serve other less cultural and more financial interests. the amendments referring to the importance of preserving, researching and access to cultural heritage, the diversity of languages and cultures are positive, as are the amendments, although insufficient... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the culture programme is mainly intended to promote the transnational mobility of people working in the cultural sector, the transnational circulation of artistic works and productions and intercultural dialogue. the new programme for 2007-13 proposes actions to promote dialogue and mutual knowledge of european culture. i believe that the amendments tabled were essential to allow greater flexibility in the duration of projects and to simplify the procedures for participation. i would also stress the need to strike a balance between the principles of complementarity and subsidiarity when drawing up new community action programmes. it is essential to legislate in a logic of results. this is particularly true when it comes to matters such as improving knowledge and dissemination of the culture and history of the european peoples and the preservation and safeguarding of cultural heritage of european significance. i would therefore like to stress the importance of the exchange of good practice in the field of european cultural heritage and the mobility of artists and new forms of cultural expression. i voted in favour of the report by mr vasco graça moura.
in writing. the media 2007 programme is essentially intended to try to promote a european audiovisual market, against the backdrop of strong competition in the american market. this union programme could be of great importance for economic growth and employment in the eu, as audiovisual works are cultural and economic goods and services. it is essential to contribute to the integration of creative and cultural aspects in industrial production. more so in a europe full of smes. i therefore consider it essential to develop the fastest possible access to funding opportunities and close cooperation in support of the challenge of digitisation, which can help to reduce the imbalances between countries with high production capacity and countries with low production capacity and also contribute to increasing the circulation of european audiovisual works within and outside the european union. we shall thus be contributing to the strengthening of the competitiveness of the european film industry. i voted in favour of mrs hieronymi's report.
the commission's vice-president i can confirm that the commission has initiated infringement proceedings against a number of member states. i would like to mention twelve member states for which we have initiated infringement proceedings. of course, i personally want the extrajudicial protection provided for in the regulation, which offers citizens a transparent and flexible solution, to be implemented. there will be a meeting between the commission and the national bodies - we hope - before the end of the year. we already answer some 500 service-level letters a month. this shows that there is still work to be done, but i assure you, mr president, that i am personally vigilant on this matter.
the commission's vice-president i repeat, mr president, there must be a body in each member state which is responsible for investigating complaints and, where appropriate, imposing sanctions on airlines which are in breach of this regulation. this will have to become a regular practice. i think that, to the extent that these complaints are dealt with properly, the way in which they are dealt with will also have a deterrent effect. this means that airlines will have an increasing incentive to comply with the regulation and pay compensation where appropriate, because they will know that if they do not, there will be a certain appeal and penalty. it's all in the application of these regulations. i thank you, madam president - i think this is the last question - i thank parliament for insisting on this point so that it is clear that we are doing everything possible to ensure that this regulation is actually applied.
member of the commission. the commission believes that the degree of concentration in the energy market of many member states is considerable. at the same time, energy markets have seen some new entrants in many member states, either in the form of start-ups or through companies established in other member states setting up subsidiaries. therefore, consumer choice has increased in many parts of the community. a high degree of concentration may negatively affect the level of competition in these markets. the price level of energy may be one indicator for this; however, it has to be borne in mind that the price of energy is also influenced by many other factors: oil, gas and coal import prices, prices of co2 emission allowances on the carbon market, additional expenditure for the support of renewable energies, and increasing internationalisation of the external cost of energy. that is why the commission is monitoring the competitive dynamics of the markets at issue very carefully and why it recently launched an inquiry concerning the european energy sector. we await the findings of this inquiry. as far as energy mergers are concerned, their possible impact on the level of competition has to be evaluated on the merits of each case. the commission is strongly committed to carrying out this assessment with great attention in order to protect european consumers against the risk of reduced competition and unjustified price increases. the commission would like to draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that it is currently carrying out phase ii in-depth investigations into the e.on/mol merger in hungary and the dong/e2 merger in denmark.
i am grateful to you, commissioner, especially for the principles you have reaffirmed, which are fundamental principles. the legal assessment that the european commission is carrying out on the gas natural/endesa merger could show (which i do not believe) that this merger does not have a community dimension and that, as a consequence, it should be assessed by a national competition authority, which is not independent of the respective government. in this context, and in the light of its decision of 9 december to prohibit the edp/eni/gdp merger, i ask the commission how it can prevent a merger with significant cross-border impact and competitive implications at a time when an integrated iberian energy market and a more perfect internal market in the energy sector in europe are desired.
mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital does not benefit the justice system, since the powers of intervention are restricted to the territory under the jurisdiction of each member state. we also know that several member states recognise the existence of a lack of trust between different police forces by refusing to share information. we cannot be surprised that this lack of confidence is even more felt at union level. it is therefore urgent to establish the widest possible cooperation on the basis of common procedures and minimum harmonisation of legal rules. only in this way can we combat transnational crime more effectively and prevent criminal networks from taking advantage of the differences and gaps in the laws of the member states. the lack of a common judicial area has led to the emergence of several community initiatives to approximate legislation, strengthen police and judicial cooperation, set up joint investigation teams, create a european arrest warrant and through the exchange of information and mutual assistance. this proposal for a framework decision is an important step in strengthening cooperation between member states, in seeking to find a common approach, in particular through a minimum framework of harmonisation, in particular as regards the definition of criminal organisation, offences and criminal frameworks and the establishment of common principles for determining jurisdiction. i would like to congratulate mr newton dunn on his work in the commission and the rigour of the proposals, and vice-president frattini on the favourable reception of most of the amendments suggested by parliament. but it should be said that, beyond the rules and the legislative effort, this must be translated into concrete instruments for the judicial and police authorities who need effective means to pursue their actions. i would like to conclude by recalling once again that prevention and control by the organised community require global cooperation with stronger and more concerted responses, based on the principles of transparency and democratic control, and this also applies to europol.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague eva klamt on her report. she has shown herself to be very balanced and sensible in this sensitive matter. this is a subject in which that does not always abound. there has been a demagogic record, both in those who argue that we should open the borders indefinitely in an irresponsible way, and in those who consider that we should grant all the rights, including political rights, that we recognize to our citizens. let us be clear: we must not confuse the recognition of basic rights for migrants with the rights we recognise as citizenship for those to whom we grant nationality. establishing this confusion can result in greater rejection and the emergence of undesirable and xenophobic reactions. as mrs klamt recalls, in the last 25 years the number of migrants in the world has more than doubled; the european union is the most important source of immigration for the people of europe. the right of men and women to seek a better life in a country other than their own is unquestionable. just as they have legitimate expectations of entering a new country safely, legally and with full respect for their fundamental rights. for this to happen, europe must have the capacity to receive, the conditions for acceptance, employability and integration, and be able to conduct a policy of development cooperation which reduces the disparities in wealth between the countries of origin and those of destination. and for this common european policy on migration to be clear, coherent and able to manage migratory flows effectively, it is necessary, firstly, to open up new legal routes of entry into the european union, taking into account the real possibilities of each member state and taking into account the lisbon strategy and the european employment strategy; secondly, to strengthen the fight against illegal entry and trafficking in human beings; thirdly, to promote the effective integration of immigrants, since successful immigration is intrinsically linked to the effectiveness of integration, as vice-president frattini recalled. and finally, fourthly, to define a return policy to the country of origin that is safe, dignified, humane and fully respectful of human rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mr pittella for the excellent work he has done throughout the whole 2006 budgetary procedure. the committee on employment, for which i was the draftsman of the opinion, welcomes the recognition and acceptance by the committee on budgets of the need to increase certain headings, or even to reduce the amounts provided for in the gnp, particularly as regards the european social fund, the equal programme, eures, measures to combat and prevent social exclusion and the leonardo programme. however, there have been requests from us that have been put off and, among them, some that are very dear to us and to which i would like to draw your attention. in particular, the need to increase the appropriations for the europass programme, a vehicle for promoting the transparency of qualifications which is essential for achieving the lisbon objectives and which was presented as part of a package with the leonardo programme but which was not taken into account. i would also like to draw your attention to the situation of the bilbao agency, which, without any budgetary adjustment since 2004, neither in terms of inflation nor in terms of adaptation to the needs of enlargement, is on the verge of not having the minimum conditions to continue operating. i would therefore like to acknowledge, as a final word, the effort made by mr pittella in the way he has cherished the european year of workers' mobility, given its impossibility of being covered as a pilot project and its inclusion as a special annual event, given its relevance and objectively its effectiveness in accordance with the objectives of the competitiveness of the european economy.
the european parliament's proposal, while improving the council's in terms of the volume of payments, fails to respond to the economic, social and environmental needs and challenges of an enlarged european union. it is worth noting that this proposal falls short of the target of 1.08% of gni in the 2006 financial framework. given that the final commitment will be between 1.04% and 1.01%, we hope that the european parliament is not calling into question the already insufficient proposal it had put forward for the financial perspective for 2007-13. despite our criticism of the substance, we call for the amendments we support to be adopted, namely the creation of a pilot project for actions in the textile and clothing sector, with a view to the future establishment of a community programme for the sector, as proposed by the european parliament, the creation of plans for the recovery of fishery resources, taking into account the socioeconomic consequences of the periods of protection, and the defence of multilingualism, particularly in the eu-acp parliamentary assemblies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the avril doyle recommendation for second reading on 'emissions from air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles' because: (1) it translates the commitment made in the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere; (2) environmentally friendly technologies are needed to avoid climate change and, consequently, to prevent the increasing frequency of natural disasters.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. these measures are certainly not enough, but they are a contribution, in particular the new directive and regulation which are now being negotiated. the old models will be phased out and member states will be able to encourage the installation of air conditioning systems containing an efficient gas with a low global warming potential, such as co2, as advocated in one of the proposals adopted in the european parliament and which we supported. we hope that the commission and the council will accept it.
in writing. the report by mr florenz will enable the commission proposal on noise emissions into the environment from equipment for use outdoors to be adopted as soon as possible. it was found that the technical knowledge available five years ago and the progress made in the meantime have brought new data which will allow a further modification of the limit values. it is essential to take into account the consequences that a delay in the amendment of the legislation may have on the internal market for such equipment. we cannot therefore allow equipment to be withdrawn from the european market. therefore, the limit values for the phase starting on 3 january 2006 for these equipment should be of a purely indicative nature. the publication of the directive in the official journal before the end of the year will give the manufacturers concerned legal certainty as regards their products. i have voted in favour of the florenz report.
in writing. the report deals with community co-financing of transport and energy network projects, and is in line with the objectives of the so-called 'lisbon strategy', namely: the completion of the internal market - giving priority to its enlargement to the east, to the new member states - encouraging privatisation and competition in both the transport and energy sectors. for example, the report advocates encouraging so-called public-private partnerships - a tool that has served to hand over control of numerous public services to private capital - 'through legal guarantees compatible with competition law and the internal market', i.e. the primacy of capitalist competition at the level of the european union, and the secondary status of so-called 'economic and social cohesion'. the proposal in the report to increase the level of community co-financing for these projects is welcome, but it does not raise the need to increase the overall financial package for this purpose, which is contradictory, since it will reduce the number of projects that can be financed.
in writing. i congratulate mr mario mauro on his important and timely report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the transeuropean transport and energy networks and amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95, which i support, particularly as regards the introduction of provisions to promote the investments needed to meet the lisbon objectives. europe needs to invest in transport and energy infrastructure. however, the 2007-2013 financial perspectives will need to be taken into account in setting the maximum funding rates for this proposal.
in writing. the transeuropean networks are a very important instrument in the creation and development of the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors in europe. the european commission's proposal aims to review the general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-13. i believe that, in view of the list of 30 priority projects in the field of transport, we must clearly lay down the rules for granting financial support so that these projects can be developed in a manner consistent with the other community policies, with criteria of effectiveness and rules of transparency in the field of project financing. finally, it is clear to everyone that this report contains some measures to implement the provisions for promoting the investments needed to meet the lisbon objectives. i therefore voted in favour of mr mauro's report.
in writing. we consider it a priority to combat organized crime, its numerous networks and trafficking, money laundering and tax havens. however, we follow the concerns expressed by members of our group who criticise aspects of this report, including: - the extension of the definition of criminal organisation, in the context of the fight against organised crime, to associations of persons not seeking material or financial benefits, going beyond what is defined in the united nations convention on transnational organised crime, which considers organisations which have as their objective material or financial gain - thus excluding political or social motives - as organised crime; - i know . the possibility of incriminating persons is broadened in a way that may create ambiguity, i.e. persons who are not actually involved in criminal acts may be incriminated; - i know . the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat organised crime, and calls for the creation of a european union police force. we also note and regret the rejection of our group's amendments, in particular the one which sought to ensure parliamentary control of europol's activities.
in writing. international organized crime is assuming high proportions and is growing. what is the measure of this growth? what are the actual figures? no one has a clear picture of the true extent of organized crime. this is absolutely unsustainable in this day and age. how can we, as responsible politicians, tolerate this situation? no, i'm not going. it is more than necessary to strengthen the fight against international crime on european soil. it is essential for the near future of our societies. the new text proposed seeks to make the fight against organised crime more effective. we are dealing with a more precise text, and it should be noted that it defines more clearly the relations between europol and interpol. i voted in favour of mr dunn's report, in the hope that these measures will contribute to a ruthless fight against organised crime.
in writing. the resolution we have just adopted is a positive element in the fight against this disease, especially because it focuses on prevention, as we have been advocating, since that is how a possible pandemic can be avoided. as the text says, the emphasis on information is essential to avoid alarmism by acting rationally and in concert with national and international authorities. hence our proposals for the european commission to provide financial support for a system of disease surveillance/monitoring, laboratory diagnostics, research into the appropriate vaccine, the burden of vaccination in the member states, and financial and technical support to third countries, particularly in asia, to ensure prevention and screening at source. however, in view of the possible emergence of an outbreak of the disease and the loss of income for poultry farmers during the period of launching a new farm, it is essential that there should also be community support, as we advocate. if this happens, it will also affect, directly and indirectly, a significant number of farmers and other workers involved in poultry farming and will have a strong economic and social impact in the member states. it is therefore important, beyond the human health problems, to take into account that the high costs may be unaffordable for some countries, both in the european union and at the origin of the disease - south-west asia.
in writing. it is true that biotechnology is one of the most important technologies for the future and must be supported by an appropriate policy framework, taking into account ethical, environmental and health aspects. one of the most important problems in this area is that of patents. we believe that human life, including human dna, should not be patented under any circumstances. that is why we voted against all the proposals which opened the way to the patentability of genes, of life, and we regret that in the final resolution there is some confusion which may indicate that opening, even if it was to avoid another more serious proposal. our position is clearly opposed to patents which include life and knowledge which we consider to be a universal good. another area of discussion concerns ethical principles, and it is true that stem cell research should not be prevented, even though we are against human cloning as stated in the resolution. our abstention at the end of the resolution is due to the contradictory aspects of the resolution, taking into account our positions of principle.
in writing. the report contains points which we value, in particular when it calls for the full implementation of the provisions of the 'international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families', adopted by the united nations general assembly in 1990, and for its ratification by all member states. or when it denounces the fact that the current policies of the european union have concentrated on the repressive aspect, among other aspects which we consider to be positive. however, the report contains contradictory points and is part of a migration policy which is aimed above all at exploiting the human resources of third countries, particularly their most highly qualified workers. insisting on the inclusion of clauses on migration flows and compulsory readmission - expulsion - in cases of illegal immigration. we also regret the rejection of our group's proposals, which aimed, among other things, at rejecting 'temporary detention centres' and measures depriving immigrants of their liberty, rejecting the creation of 'temporary detention centres' in third countries, or denouncing the failure of the 'quota' policy, which has resulted in an increase in illegal immigration and the precarious employment of these workers.
instead of proposals that are needed to respond effectively to the serious social problems of the european union - more than 22 million unemployed and 72 million people living in poverty - the president of the council insisted on measures to support competitiveness and competition. thus, the emphasis on research, development and innovation is always presented as a way of creating a business-friendly environment and not as the answer that is needed for better health for all, higher levels of public education and creating quality and entitled employment. the president of the council, tony blair, therefore insisted on the need for greater labour flexibility, mobility and support for restructuring which reduces jobs, contributing to more unemployment and greater job insecurity. that is why it also insisted on the proposals for directives on the creation of the internal market in services and on working time, which makes it clear that what is being prepared is the insistence on neoliberalism, aggravating all the existing economic and social problems, in order to serve only the interests of the economic and financial groups of the european union, in response to the unice agenda.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0325/2005).
mr president, i have been informed that we are awaiting the council's reply at all times. the council is here and i would ask you to give priority to the answer to the question you have put. question no 1 by mr duff (h-0761/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regulation on the 'green line' in cyprus does the council consider that the recent amendments to the 'green line' regulation have served their purpose by significantly increasing trade between the north and the south of cyprus? will these constitute an appropriate and adequate response to the council's political commitment in april 2004 to support the development of northern cyprus?
question no 2 by mr panagiotis beglitis (h-0762/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: draft negotiating mandate with a view to concluding an eu/serbia-montenegro association stabilisation agreement in april 2005, the european commission concluded and submitted to the council a draft negotiating mandate for the conclusion of an eu stabilisation and association agreement with the state of serbia and montenegro. because until now, despite the eu's recognition of its strategic importance for security and stability in the region, serbia-montenegro was the only country in the western balkans whose european perspective remains excluded from european activities. why the delay in considering and adopting a negotiating mandate so that negotiations can begin? when does the council intend to adopt and give its mandate to the commission? why did the precondition for croatia to cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia not prevent the eu from opening accession negotiations, and why was this condition imposed in the most absolute way in the case of serbia/montenegro, creating in practice 'two weights and two measures'? why does the council not start negotiations immediately, while at the same time retaining the possibility of checking whether this prior requirement is met at a later stage, in any case before the negotiations are concluded and the agreement is signed?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0763/05) subject: young people in rural and peripheral regions and the use of the structural funds and other financial instruments with a view to the end of the 2000-2006 programming period, how does the council assess the results of the use of the structural funds and other funding instruments in terms of social integration, education, training and professional development of young people living in agricultural, island, mountainous, sparsely populated and peripheral regions, as well as in regions with demographic problems? does the new programming for the period 2007-2013 include actions targeting this category of people, with a view to promoting their integration into their natural and social environment and enabling them to continue living in that environment?
question no 4 by fiona hall (h-0766/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: efficiency in the final use of energy in the light of recent shocks in the energy market, such as the increase in oil prices and growing public concern about the effects of climate change, what steps is the council taking under the british presidency to ensure that the proposed directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services (com (2003) 0739 - c5-0642/2003 - 2003/0300 (cod)) takes into account the most stringent measures to encourage energy savings, supported by a large majority in the european parliament?
question no 5 by sarah ludford (h-0767/05) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: use of the community framework for law enforcement purposes does the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities on the relevance of community law for the imposition of criminal sanctions (case c-176/03 of 13 september 2005) encourage the council to use the community framework instead of the rather unsatisfactory intergovernmental framework for law enforcement measures? is the uk presidency constructively considering the possibility of using article 42 teu to this end? how will it prevent forums such as the g5 and g8 and new developments at the level of the schengen agreements from further undermining transparent, democratic and comprehensive european cooperation? does it intend at least to keep the european parliament and the national parliaments informed of the progress of the intergovernmental negotiations and of future plans?
question no 6 by elizabeth lynne (h-0769/05) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: reduction of regulation the author calls on the uk presidency to support the efforts of josé manuel barroso to avoid unnecessary and costly legislative initiatives by the european commission. despite assurances that it would take steps to avoid unnecessary legislative initiatives and promote the principle of subsidiarity, the british presidency has in fact advocated the introduction of legislation which is not practical, such as the protection of workers from the sun's rays under the optical radiation directive. is the presidency prepared to take the opportunity to restore some seriousness and abandon this kind of legislative 'play' in the eu?
question no 7 by catherine stihler (h-0771/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: clinical trials with microbicides in 2004, 4.9 million people were newly infected with hiv, more than in any previous year. since 75% of young people infected are girls, this demonstrates the increasing vulnerability of women and the corresponding need to extend existing prevention measures, particularly those targeting women. the europe-developing countries clinical trials partnership (edctp) was established in february 2004 and one third of its budget was to be financed by member states (plus one third from the commission and one third from the private sector). in view of the increase in hiv infection rates and the establishment of the edctp, can the council provide information on the funding of the edctp by member states and, consequently, on which microbicide clinical trials are currently funded by the edctp?
question no 8 by kyriacos triantaphyllides (h-0774/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: conclusion of an agreement between the european community and azerbaijan on certain aspects of air services on 29 august, a turkish cypriot plane took off from the illegal airport of the so-called "turkish republic of northern cyprus" bound for the capital of azerbaijan, baku. this flight follows a direct flight from azerbaijan to the occupied zone of cyprus on 27 july 2005. these flights were carried out in violation of the principles of european and international civil aviation. in view of the proposal for a council decision (com (2005) 0060 final) on the signing of an agreement between the european community and azerbaijan on certain aspects of air services replacing the bilateral agreements between the member states and the republic of azerbaijan, the council is asked how it will view this position of azerbaijan on the basis of the political means at its disposal.
question no 9 by sajjad karim (h-0775/05) subject: the situation in the middle east subject: agenda of the eu-israel association council in response to the debate on the situation in the middle east held in the european parliament on 7 september 2005, douglas alexander, speaking on behalf of the uk presidency of the council, reiterated the council's 'clear view' on the separation wall in east jerusalem and assured members that, 'if the council has concerns about israel's actions on human rights, it will communicate - and has communicated these concerns to the israeli government.' the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. can the council outline the process by which the eu-israel association council's agenda is set, in view of israel's systematic failure to comply with the international court of justice's opinion of 9 july 2004? can the council give any justification as to why the implementation of the opinion of the highest international court, which lays down binding obligations for all member states, should not be at the top of the agenda?
question no 10 by mr papadimoulis (h-0777/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: framework decision on the retention of data (cns/2004/0813) is the council prepared to move forward with the adoption of the framework decision on data retention despite the reactions of the ep on the legal basis and the disproportion between objectives and means, of the humanitarian organisations on the problems of respect for civil liberties and of the industry in the sector on the high cost? does the council share the view of certain bodies that 'price is not a political problem'? how are human rights to be safeguarded and how are constitutional obstacles in several member states to the scope of application of such a framework decision to be overcome? how does the council react to the objections of british ministers that a pan-european system is not indispensable, since security objectives can be better served by 25 national systems?
question no 11 by mr purvis (h-0784/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: sebo and the directive on the incineration of waste animal sebum is covered by directive 2000/76/ec oj l 332, 28.12.2000, p. 91. on the incineration of waste and will have to be incinerated under very strict conditions after december this year. it is currently used as a fuel in steam boilers in carburetors and in the production of biodiesel. however, the provisions of directive 2000/76/ec appear to preclude its use for these purposes. is this impediment not inconsistent with the commission's environmental policy which encourages efficient and competitive alternative energy sources?
question no 12 by mr claude moraes (h-0790/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the kurdish question in turkey in the light of the constructive attitude adopted by the council towards the negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union, can the council give the latest information it has on the contacts developed during the united kingdom presidency? can the council also clarify its position on the specific problem of the human and cultural rights of the kurds in the context of any negotiating package?
question no 13 by mr corbett (h-0792/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: respiratory diseases and the lisbon agenda in the context of the examination of the health section of the seventh framework programme for research and development, will the council consider the relevance of different types of health issues to the lisbon agenda? is the council aware that respiratory diseases cost health services more than eur 102 billion and that they are the condition that most often requires general practitioner visits and emergency admissions to hospitals, representing a huge burden in terms of lost working days? will the council agree that research in this area could bring benefits both in terms of health and economic benefits and thus make a major contribution to the lisbon strategy?
question no 14 by mr bernd posselt (h-0794/05) subject: minorities in turkey how does the council assess the situation of ethnic and religious minorities in turkey compared with the previous year, particularly with regard to the law on religion?
question no 15 by mr ebner (h-0798/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection and promotion of alpine breeds of bovine animals regulation (ec) no 639/2003 oj l 93, 10.4.2003, p. 10 reduces from 36 to 30 months the age of cows and calves for which export refunds are granted. previously, export refunds were granted for animals up to 36 months of age in accordance with regulation (ec) no 615/1998 oj l 82, 19.3.1998, p. 19. this change makes life difficult for breeders in mountain regions, who are dependent on the alpine cycle of autumn births. on the other hand, due to the harsh environment of mountain pastures, the bovine breeds in these regions develop more slowly and mating can only take place at 24 months of age, depending on biological conditions. will the council provide for a derogation for alpine breeds of bovine animals, so that the export age of these animals is again fixed at 36 months?
question no 16 by esko seppänen (h-0804/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: british discount the council failed in june to reach agreement on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. one of the impediments was the special treatment the united kingdom received in relation to its financial participation, in other words the 'british discount'. does the present presidency intend to put on the agenda a proposal which would put all member states on an equal footing, i.e. which would abolish the tax rebates granted to the united kingdom and some other member states?
question no 17 by bill newton dunn (h-0808/05) subject: the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the european union subject: style of answering questions during question period a study of the present presidency shows that it does not like to give direct answers to direct questions put during question time. is the presidency deliberately adopting the style of the house of commons, where national ministers boast of revealing as little as possible, contrary to true democratic principles, or, since the presidency represents the council in general and not the commons, will the council intend to use the continental system of helping the citizens, who pay them, by answering genuine information to the questions put to it?
the time allotted for questions has now been used up and questions 18 to 46 will be answered in writing. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
in writing. i voted for the abolition of subsidies to tobacco production. i believe that tobacco production, as a key link in the tobacco industry, should not continue to be subsidised. the harmful consequences for public health (more than 500,000 deaths per year in europe from tobacco-related diseases) and therefore also for the economies of the member states and the eu of tobacco consumption lead me to believe that the burden of more than one billion euros spent on subsidies to these producers under the cap is morally, politically and economically indefensible. in my view, tobacco production and the tobacco industry should not only not be supported, but should be phased out and eliminated quickly. it is up to the european parliament to put pressure on the member states and the commission to do so, in particular through the eu budget it adopts. i am obviously sensitive to the problem of the 3,500 jobs in portugal that will depend on this production. i therefore believe that efforts to reconvert the industry must be accelerated in order to guarantee jobs and the economic survival of producers in portugal and all european tobacco producing countries. i therefore support all the financial assistance that can be given to them, whether by community or national bodies. but continuing the policy of european subsidies represents... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the present statement of vote is intended to denounce the hypocrisy of the majority of the european parliament which, after having approved in previous resolutions the creation of a 'community programme' with 'appropriate resources' for the textile and clothing sector, 'particularly' targeted at the 'less favoured regions', supporting 'research, innovation, vocational training and smes', has rejected a clear proposal which aims to be implemented in the community budget for 2006. in other words, the majority of the ep is not ashamed of its incoherence. for our part, we regret the rejection of proposals - put forward on our own initiative and supported by several members - to: - set up a pilot project for actions in the textile and clothing sector with a view to the future establishment of a community programme; - draw up plans for the recovery of fishery resources taking into account the socioeconomic consequences of periods of defence; - and defend multilingualism, particularly in the eu-acp parliamentary assemblies. we are also very grateful for the approval of others which we have presented, aimed at promoting reforestation and forest fire prevention, the conservation of cultural heritage, or the support of cooperation between smes.
in writing. the barcelona process was intended to be a turning point in relations between the european union and its southern neighbours and to provide a framework for the concerted development and mutual assistance of the mediterranean countries. the ten years of this process therefore require adjustment and reinforcement of its implementation in order to provide the conditions for meeting the current challenges and adapting to a new regional and international context. by combining levels of political, economic and social, bilateral and regional dialogue with opportunities for interaction, this process enhances the possibilities for rapprochement and the establishment of trusting relations between peoples. i think the most relevant point is the planned creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area from 2010 which should cover some 40 states and approximately 700 million consumers. it seems to me that a model of relations based on an enlarged free trade area will certainly be more effective and can, by promoting the economies of the south, contribute to the development of this region in order to avoid, for example, migratory tensions such as those we have seen in recent times. i voted in favour of the jäätteenmäki report.
in writing. although this report refers to the work of the previous ombudsman in his now-defunct mandate, we welcome the way in which he has carried out his work, seeking to draw the attention of the european institutions to citizens' complaints and even, in one case or another, achieving a resolution. it also put forward proposals which, if accepted, could improve the capacity to intervene and solve citizens' problems, in particular by making the european institutions respond more quickly. we also follow the rapporteur's position that there should be greater cooperation between the european ombudsman and the european parliament's committee on petitions and that efforts should be made to give greater visibility to the rights of individuals. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. europe faces a crisis of dialogue with its citizens the european ombudsman continues to receive complaints that fall outside his mandate. it seems to me therefore essential that a dialogue with the citizens should be re-established in which the powers of the institutions are explained in a clear and simple manner. the european ombudsman has taken initiatives in this regard and should continue to do so. the current ombudsman has also shown us that he is well aware of his role, and has even proposed intensified cooperation with his national or regional counterparts and measures to promote the highest levels of quality in european public administration. finally, i would stress that it is vital to maintain the impartiality of this influential body, which acts as a mediator between the public administration and the european citizens and offers extrajudicial solutions. i therefore voted in favour of mr mavrommattis' report.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in western sahara.
author. first of all, i would like to highlight the failure of the attempt to make it impossible to conclude this parliamentary debate with a resolution on western sahara. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east. moreover, a just and lasting solution, as the motion for a resolution states, will always have to put an end to the colonial option of which western sahara is a victim and the creation of a sovereign, independent and viable sarawak state. despite the great efforts, unilateral concessions and goodwill shown by the polisario front, the legitimate representative of the interests of the sarawi people, such as the recent release of all prisoners of war, the process continues to be blocked by the intransigent attitude of the moroccan government - and not only that! - which refuses to recognize the fundamental rights of the sarawi people, and therefore immediate and effective initiatives are needed, with the clear objective of completing the process of decolonisation of western sahara, as well as initiatives denouncing the repression suffered by the sarawi people in the occupied territories and demanding the release of the sarawi patriots detained by the moroccan authorities. in the same vein, it is necessary to ensure the living conditions of the sarawak people, in particular by guaranteeing full food aid, as well as health and education, to all those in the refugee camps.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 4 p.m. today.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in uzbekistan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 4 p.m. today.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the tenzin delek rinpoche case.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 4 p.m. today. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
unfortunately, this is a recurring problem. we shall examine it in detail and carefully and hope that by the next sitting this difficulty will no longer occur.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the vote and other details, see minutes)
the vote is closed.
this session is adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 4.20 p.m.)
on november 7th, the collapse of a 100-ton steel structure supporting a concrete structure killed six people. five were portuguese workers and one was a galician worker. it was in southern spain, in a work accident during the construction of a viaduct of the mediterranean motorway. in portugal, in my region, the district of porto, this tragedy has been lived with great emotion, leaving families without the father, the husband or the son, who were ensuring their income for survival given the high unemployment in northern portugal. i therefore ask you, mr president, to go beyond the vote of regret and solidarity with these families and to insist on the need for adequate financial support for the families and the strengthening of the safety measures at work, which are as essential in spain as in the other countries of the european union, in order to prevent further tragedies like this.
on may 15th, there was an election in ethiopia. the people voted because, among other things, they believed in international observation, particularly that of the european union. after that, there were massacres, particularly on 8 june, and yet the prime minister of ethiopia was received at the g8 and was part of the 'africa commission'. recently, on november 1st, there was again terrible violence and repression in ethiopia and all the elected opposition leaders are in prison. at this moment, there are tens of thousands of prisoners and there have been dozens of deaths and yet the prime minister of ethiopia was received in germany. mr president, on 13 june this parliament adopted a very clear resolution on the situation in ethiopia. please write to the ethiopian government and write to european governments drawing their attention to the fact that it is not possible to continue doing "business as usual" with a country that is under repression and where elected opposition leaders are imprisoned.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we know that this process of neo-liberal globalisation is contributing to the worsening of economic and social inequalities and to the widening of the gap between rich and poor and to environmental imbalances, both between and within different countries, as statistics and un reports demonstrate. it is high unemployment, inequalities in income distribution, poverty and social exclusion that are also generating increasing social tensions, including here in the european union. it is therefore not enough to recognise the existing situation; what is needed is a break with the economic, monetary and international trade policies that generate this situation, both at the global level and at the level of the european union, if the strategic objectives of sustainable development and the raising of living standards on a global scale are to be achieved. the amendments we are tabled are intended to underline the importance of changing some of these policies urgently so that the social dimension is properly safeguarded. for example, it is urgent to take concrete measures against financial speculation in global capital markets, including the introduction of a capital movements and capital gains tax, in order not only to reduce the volatility of capital markets and the risk of financial crisis, but also to promote investment and wealth creation in the real economy, to promote social inclusion and to guarantee human rights. it is also necessary to replace the lisbon strategy and the stability pact with a genuine european strategy of solidarity and sustainable development to promote equal rights, social protection for all, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, the resolution of problems linked to precarious employment and the strengthening of the social rights of workers, the unemployed, the elderly and children. it is essential to ensure that all have access to high quality public services in areas such as water supply, health, education and housing, and it is therefore necessary that the european union should not insist on liberalising services in the context of the world trade organisation and gatt.
i am very pleased to hear your speech and the assurances you have given us so far that no country in the european union is involved in this embarrassment. but you will understand that we will only be safe when we are sure that no country in the european union is involved in any way in the shameful decision to host detention centres where prisoners are subjected to inhuman acts of cruelty and torture. let there be no doubt: we all stand in solidarity with those countries which have suffered directly from the violence of terrorist acts, such as the united states, spain, the united kingdom or any other country. we share the determination to combat international terrorism, but we consider it essential that any measures taken should be in accordance with human rights and the rule of law. contrary to what some may think, it is not our weakness, but our struggle and our strength that gives international legitimacy to the fight against terrorism, clearly distinguishing what separates us from the terrorists, which is respect for human life and its basic rights. commissioner frattini made reference to the international wing. all the countries of the european union are committed to this. the international rules are clear in the various conventions, both as regards the circumstances of detention and the obligation to subject prisoners to a fair trial before a competent, impartial and independent tribunal. it is disturbing that almost four years after the un requested access to guantanamo for a human rights investigation, it is still being refused by the american authorities or subjected to unacceptable conditions, as mr rumsfeld has just reiterated. and again, as we have seen, with regard to the echelon report, there is a difference in behaviour between the us administration and the senate. commissioner frattini has rightly praised the council of europe and the initiative of the legal affairs committee. i should like to mention two very positive initiatives of the us senate: the one developed at the initiative of senator john mccain, which strengthens the rights of prisoners, and the one that resulted from senator john kerry, who has launched an investigation into this denunciation of secret prisons, where torture is apparently possible, which cannot but deserve our utmost condemnation.
in writing. the wine market is of enormous importance to portugal, which is why this matter deserves the greatest attention both from those responsible for policy and from those most directly concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the 2004 athens olympic and paralympic games were the first to be held in a schengen member state without internal border controls. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the schengen visa system for members of the olympic family who are to participate in the olympic games in athens. in practical terms, it would allow them to enter the territory of the state where the games are held without having to undergo any further procedures or formalities other than the possession of this authorization card together with their passport or other official travel document. following the evaluation of its application in greece, it was concluded that this derogation scheme was a success and that it constituted a flexible and effective instrument and did not compromise the level of security required within the schengen area. i therefore support this proposal which adopts a nearly identical system (this time, in co-decision), with some adjustments to the regulation so that it can be applied to the new olympic and paralympic winter games in turin in 2006.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, which improves the commission's proposal, which proposes an amendment to regulations 1408/71 and 574/72, taking account of the changes in national legislation in the field of social security, particularly in the new member states, since the accession negotiations. it also aims to update the list of provisions of social security conventions which continue to apply and are not replaced by regulation 1408/71, by proposing technical improvements. overall, the proposals now adopted improve existing legislation and provide legal certainty until the new regulation enters into force, thus helping to improve the protection of workers who opt for mobility in the member states of the european union.
in writing. as the recital to this report states, 'this regulation plays an important role in that it implements one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu, namely the free movement of european citizens. indeed, the possibility to live, work and move freely within the eu - with as few financial or administrative barriers as possible - is a tangible advantage that eu citizenship confers on citizens.' that's right. the social protection possibilities available to the citizens of the member states have been a factor of enormous importance in promoting genuine freedom of movement. in the present case, where no social security models or rules for the operation of the various systems are discussed, but only the necessary adaptations and updates of the present regulation are made, the vote in favour is justified as an adaptation in accordance with the interests and principles of the regulation in question.
in writing. the eel population in the european union has been declining in a worrying way in recent decades. due to the complex reproduction process of the european eel, it is essential that measures are taken to reverse the increasingly evident trend towards the extinction of this species. in addition to some emergency measures which need to be implemented immediately, there is a set of medium and long-term measures which should also be adopted in order to ensure, firstly, the recovery of the stocks of this species and, consequently, their proper management. this report presents a set of proposals in this direction which deserve my unconditional support.
in writing. we welcome the existence of a community action plan to support the recovery of the eel in the way it is proposed, particularly because it takes account of the need to implement socioeconomic measures for fishermen, the community financing of measures (emphasis should be placed on a separate budget line), the need for reliable data on the state of the resources, and the investigation of other causes of the reduction of the stocks, such as pollution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, with regard to the national management plans of each member state, we emphasise three aspects:- that these plans should emphasise their precautionary nature, given the lack of scientific knowledge about the numbers of eel stocks and the spatial distribution of successive generations of eels;- that they should incorporate concrete measures to avoid the existence of physical obstacles that hinder or limit the migration of eels in waterways;- and that they should provide for the intensification of scientific research and the collection of data on fisheries, aquaculture and exports.
in writing. the matter under consideration is of significant importance for portugal and for portuguese fishing communities, and the concerns expressed by the rapporteur should be noted. i believe that there are good reasons to support, among other equally important aspects, the presentation of proposals for socioeconomic compensation for those who are harmed by the limitation of fishing and the limitation of the export of european eel. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. unfortunately, the majority of the european parliament has rejected our most important proposals, which would have improved an incoherent and very inadequate report on the important subject of the social dimension of globalisation. the proposals we made to change the current liberal policies, whether in the field of international trade or economic and monetary policies, to combat financial speculation on the world capital markets and to promote investment and wealth creation in the real economy were rejected. the commission's proposal to review the lisbon strategy and the stability pact, which have been instruments within the eu used to liberalise and privatise public services, to make labour markets more flexible and adaptable, to moderate wages and to open up most social security, including pensions and health, to private entities, was also rejected. however, it was possible to partially approve the proposal which insists on the need for a social policy agenda that focuses on the development of a city centred on inclusion and cohesion, which presupposes measures in favour of sustainable development and respect for workers' rights. hence our final abstention from voting.
in writing. congratulates mr mihael brejc on the timely report on the commission communication entitled 'the social dimension of globalisation - the contribution of eu policies to making the benefits available to all'. it supports the idea that the european union model has always placed the emphasis on a strong social dimension for economic integration - as reflected in the lisbon agenda - and that as such certain good practices of the european social model should be transposed to other parts of the world. it therefore agrees that the european union can make a valuable contribution, through its internal and external policies, to shaping the process of globalisation and making it more equitable for all.
in writing. there are two ways of looking at globalization. one is to think that reality is avoidable (and undesirable), to think that if 19th century workers had protested more effectively there would have been no industrialization (and that this would have been a positive), to think that technological innovations are an evil in themselves. the other, realistic, history-conscious and aware of the responsibilities of each generation, is to seize the opportunities that globalization brings us. globalization is neither good nor bad in itself, it is a reality that can be used for good or for bad. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. and not only do you have that opportunity, you have that duty. that is the spirit in which we should approach globalisation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and health from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment and health from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals, the introduction of a european directive on the protection of the environment from the use of chemicals. parliament can only welcome the commission's initiative and play an active and constructive part in improving its proposal. this is what we did. the possibility of a broad commitment is due to this sense of collective responsibility and, in particular, to the exceptional work of the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi. supporting these proposals will substantially improve the commission's text and make it more applicable. at the same time we safeguard the essential: the adoption of the principle of responsibility, the reduction of costs for smes, the priority to the most problematic chemicals and uses, the clarification of the role of the agency, the enhancement of evaluation and the monitoring of the system. as a rapporteur on the commission and as a shadow rapporteur on international trade and econ, i should like to thank you for including many of the consensus reached there in the text that is to be voted on. i would like to draw the attention of members, the commission and the council to the need for the european union to use its weight as the world's largest trading bloc and largest producer of chemicals to enforce its own internal rules on the protection of the environment and health as internationally recognised rules and preconditions for free trade. in reach, as in many other pieces of legislation, it is worth stressing that europe cannot continue to legislate on its internal market as if globalisation were not a reality. to forget this is to destroy europe as a productive base, to destroy its jobs and hypocritically to export the environmental damage of its territory to more vulnerable areas. it is shooting ourselves in the foot and article 6 does not sufficiently protect this problem. in this area, as in others, the agreement will not be perfect yet, it will need to be improved gradually on the basis of practical evaluation, but this is the possible agreement and it is good enough to deserve the clear support of this parliament. only then will a balanced institutional solution be achieved in the short term, and that is why they have my support.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the commission proposes in the white paper on european governance that european regulatory agencies should have a legislative framework. the idea is now developing towards an interinstitutional agreement which is urgent and has not yet seen the light of day. because if there is one example in the political decision-making system of a reality which calls for a rational and coordinated organisation, it is undoubtedly that of the european regulatory agencies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. but it is also because the european institutional structure is still a fragmentary structure, a structure which is still searching for the integrating force of a constitution and which, for that very reason, requires interinstitutional agreements and a prudent and permanent organizational effort. europe cannot turn a blind eye to the governance problem that emerges from its size and ambition, so the regulatory agencies are calling for european political institutions to assume a shared responsibility. an interinstitutional agreement will enhance the success of these agencies; the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the wrong direction.
there are many small and mediumsized enterprises which are already closing down or are close to closing down, with the worsening of unemployment in disadvantaged areas, such as my own country, but also in other countries of southern europe, and with very serious consequences in blocking the development of these areas. if the process does not move forward quickly, it may be too late, and so my question to you is: when will concrete and effective measures be taken to apply safeguard clauses to the most affected areas?
mr president, commissioner, better legislation does not necessarily mean less legislation. we are certainly aiming to legislate only when necessary and only to the extent necessary. in this debate we are faced with the need to act at the legislative level to increase the safety of air transport by ensuring a high level of protection for passengers against the risks of accidents. we will do this essentially, either by adopting a community list of air carriers which should be banned from flying over the airspace of the european union, or by effectively publishing this list to passengers. it's just that there are times when the facts speak for themselves. on august 14 of this year 121 people died when a plane crashed near athens. unfortunately, this was only one of six air accidents that have occurred this summer, from greece to venezuela, killing more than 500 people in five weeks and provoking a feeling of insecurity and, for that very reason, demanding a political debate. it is therefore fully justified that in these circumstances parliament should debate and adopt stricter and more detailed regulations on air transport safety, which in this particular case, i am sure, means better legislation and a proper sense of responsibility. we are aware that air accidents have fortunately been rare in europe. but this does not invalidate our concern, particularly as regards flights from third country airlines calling at our airports, or those carrying our citizens outside european airspace, and as regards a certain lack of coordination of measures to prevent the operation of airlines which do not comply with safety and maintenance requirements. it is true that the member states must retain their powers, especially in urgent cases, but it must not be possible, as has happened, for an airline banned by four european countries to be able to immediately redirect its flights to another where it was not banned. our aim must be to reverse these anomalies by promoting a european and also a world market for transparent and safe air transport. that is why we are concerned about this report - and i congratulate the rapporteur on her report - and the group of amendments endorsed by all the groups deserve our support, and we hope that it will be adopted in this parliament and shortly in the council.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, the land does not belong to us, we borrowed it from our children, said the great indian chief. if we don't win the battle against climate change, what kind of land will we leave our children? the diagnosis is made. the only thing lacking is the courage to put in place more ambitious and effective policies. the wijkman report makes a good contribution. we need to move from words to deeds and, in line with the lisbon strategy, go further in the adoption of new technologies and in the international effort to comply with the kyoto convention. the united states must take responsibility. i welcome the european union's dialogue with china and india, but it is also necessary to involve countries such as brazil, south africa, russia, japan and indonesia and to put an end to contradictions such as fossil fuel subsidies. commissioner dimas said that the montreal conference will not bring all the solutions to the problem. but it's expected to bring some solutions. it is a demand of our children and future generations!
in writing. i congratulate my colleague christine de veyrac on the important and timely report produced on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of information to air passengers on the identity of the operating carrier and the communication of safety information by member states, which i support, particularly with regard to the need to extend the powers of the european aviation safety agency (easa) and to delegate to it a key role in the publication of the safety measures of aircraft of third country carriers. publicity of the 'blacklist' should be made not only by the european commission but also by all member states, ticket vendors, national civil aviation authorities and airports in the member states as a means of ensuring useful communication to passengers and the successful pursuit of the objectives of this proposal.
in writing. the nuclear option - which seems to me to be justifiable in certain circumstances - is compatible only with a policy of absolute safety in its use. for these reasons, where appropriate, the closure and dismantling of these units should be decided. however, in the present situation, it seems to me that the reasons for advocating the provision of financial resources so far in excess of the proposal defined by the rapporteur have not been sufficiently clear. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this proposal.
in writing. the geography of 'our europe', of community europe, was greatly modified in may last year. with obvious positive results, as is widely acknowledged, but creating new challenges for a european union which has changed substantially from one day to the next in its neighbours, with all that this implies at the level of the different policies. the eu has a long history of regional policies adapted to different geographical realities - although some have been less successful than desirable. in this respect, the approach advocated in this resolution, which is concerned with effective political action at this level, deserves my support, because i believe that policies should not be uniform, but should be adapted to different realities and specificities.
in writing. the advantages of the european union may also be one of the causes of some of its difficulties. in particular, in the case of technological challenges, where the size of the 25 member states as a whole may of course be proportionate to the difficulties of agreement among themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. these considerations are relevant to the significant change that the technological evolution generated by the digital shift represents. in my view, the guidelines set out in this joint resolution deserve my agreement, even if it safeguards the main concern with the need to respect the free functioning of this market. the availability of support for technological development cannot mean an intrusion into the natural space of freedom which the market - and this market in particular - requires.
in writing. the vote on this report took account of the czech position on the proposals in question, given the pressure they have been subjected to in order to dismantle the nuclear power stations. this provides for financial resources considered sufficient to cover the full costs of dismantling and the treatment, conditioning and final storage of the resulting radioactive waste. we know that there are currently 14 member states with nuclear power stations, which corresponds to 149 reactors, with the average age of the reactors in operation being over 20 years. in countries which have recently joined the european union, as is the case, and which have been confronted with these requirements for decommissioning, it seems to us that it is right that the necessary support should be given for their implementation in a more appropriate way, taking into account human and environmental safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the use of financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. i agree with the principles set out in these reports, not only because i believe that nuclear energy must be surrounded by all safety measures, but also because i believe that we must take effective account of the financial resources that manage its life cycle. i think that the conditions for the use of financial resources for decommissioning set out in this report are responsible and effective, and i am particularly referring to the creation of a decommissioning fund which will take account of the management of funds generated by energy production. i would remind you that whenever we look at nuclear, it is a matter of priority to take account of the necessary safety and environmental protection measures for the life of a nuclear power station and it is in this framework that the proposed measures for its decommissioning in a safe, efficient and environmentally friendly way should be included.
in writing. in the run-up to the 11th conference of the parties to the unfccc, to be held in montreal from 28 november to 9 december, parliament stressed the need to give top priority to negotiations on the post-2012 emission reduction commitments under the kyoto protocol to the unfccc, which entered into force on 16 february 2005 after being ratified by 152 countries and regional organisations. there seems to be some overreach in setting greenhouse gas targets, given that little is known about the actual consequences of human interference in climate change, which is even more problematic with the us outside the kyoto protocol. but we welcome all measures aimed at reducing energy intensity and waste, improving energy efficiency, developing a new policy for less polluting transport, and promoting rail transport and public transport in general. we already have a very strong opinion on emissions trading, because as we know it does not solve any problems and only serves to aggravate environmental inequalities and imbalances. the richest countries will always be able to continue to pollute by buying emission rights from others, which is not acceptable. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the excellent report by mr wijkman sets out some measures to help solve the problem of climate change at world level. the eleventh conference of the parties will shortly be held in montreal. at this meeting, european leaders are expected to put forward proposals for a future climate change regime. such a regime should be based on common but differentiated responsibilities, aiming at continued emission reductions and the participation of more countries in these efforts. on the other hand, more ambitious targets should also be proposed. the european council of march 2005 insisted on a reduction of emissions by developed countries of between 15% and 30% by 2020. the rapporteur proposes to set long-term targets, suggesting a 60 to 80% reduction by 2050. finally, a strategy needs to be developed to make europe the most energy-efficient economy in the world. incentives should be created to increase the use of 'clean' technologies, and research and innovation should be promoted at european level to support sustainable energy and sustainable land use management.
in writing. the importance of the environment, and in particular of climate change, as one of our concerns, is, i think, obvious. i share a lot of the basic lines of environmental policy that europe has been advocating - and which are echoed in both the commission's report and the communication. but i think we should bear in mind two aspects. on the one hand, it is clear that the first concerns of the developing countries are not environmental, in that they are not original. on the other hand, developed societies are also not willing to give up their quality of life, and that should not be our purpose or our model. that is exactly why i believe that the main investment should be in research and development, since the objective, the model, should be to manage resources better, always ensuring a better and more sustainable quality of life.
it is not enough to say that there are social problems in the european union and in the world. as my group said before the informal summit at the end of october, it is essential to analyse the causes and change the policies which are at the root of this situation. but the truth is that what we have heard here does not guarantee that willingness to change policies, even when there is growing discontent among the people and serious social tensions in several countries, even here in the heart of the european union. instead of proposals which are needed to give an effective response to the serious social problems, the council is insisting on the neoliberal agenda which we are all familiar with. the lisbon strategy, with the liberalisation and privatisation of public services in a wide range of areas, combined with an increasingly precarious work environment, the infamous proposal for a directive on the creation of an internal market for services is an example, in some cases joined by the stability pact to tighten the noose even further on workers and small and mediumsized enterprises. in the name of sacrosanct competition, measures are being taken to create competition among workers in an attempt to level wages and other social benefits at ever lower levels. hence the insistence on greater labour flexibility, mobility and support for job-shrinking restructuring, contributing to more unemployment and greater job insecurity. as the enormous growth in the profit rates of the major economic and financial groups in the european union shows, current policies are primarily aimed at responding to the unice agency. what we're hearing here today is going in the same direction. even when they talk about the need to create a business-friendly environment, we all know that they are talking about big business only. in fact, commissioner mandelson made this very clear here yesterday in his answers to concerns about the consequences of international trade liberalisation in highly sensitive industrial sectors for southern countries, such as textiles, clothing and footwear, which are being used as a bargaining chip to gain for high-tech and services sectors in the wto negotiations. this is what needs to be reversed.
mr president, the hampton court summit was to discuss how europe could do better in the world. people in ethiopia voted in their masses in may under eu eyes, but the first results did not please the ruling party. suddenly, the observers were obstructed, media openness was suppressed and demonstrations were banned. people were brutally repressed in june: over 40 were killed and 5 000 arrested. despite that, a few weeks later, prime minister meles attended the gleneagles summit hosted by the british presidency. in september, several governments and the president of the commission sent him messages of congratulation. on 1 november, another bloodbath took place: 58 elected leaders, journalists and ngo members are in jail and, according to the prime minister, face the death penalty; dozens more were killed, hundreds wounded and thousands were arrested. yet, a few days later mr meles was officially wined and dined in germany. president-in-office, why does the council send contradictory signals instilling a sense of impunity in rulers who violate human rights and democratic principles, rulers who may then choose to go to war with neighbours to divert attention? did you consider this at hampton court? can the president-in-office say that europe is doing enough and doing its best for human rights, democracy and development in ethiopia, the second most populous country in africa?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 november 2005.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lulling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a6-0339/2005).
questions 16 to 36 will be answered in writing the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
parliament is concerned at the reports of human rights violations in tunisia on the occasion of the united nations world summit on the information society. when the president visited tunisia this year, and in a statement in september, he expressed his disappointment at the repression and harassment of ngos and the media in tunisia, stressing that this was contrary to the spirit of the eu-tunisia association agreement. the information society represents a huge opportunity for freedom of expression and the peaceful exchange of ideas, bringing people together across borders and cultures. what should have been a celebration of progress has turned into a sad situation, marred by the harassment of tunisian and international human rights defenders and media representatives and the obstruction of activities carried out through the internet in tunisia in the interest of democracy and human rights. the european parliament delegation to the united nations summit on the information society (chaired by mrs trautman) will be sure to express our views at the meeting itself and at the parallel citizens' summit taking place this week. we deplore the actions of the authorities to prevent this significant and peaceful event from taking place. as was clear from the recent ep resolution, we fully support all those who are working peacefully for the development of democracy and the rule of law in tunisia. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
the value of arms contracts signed by the four main european exporters in 2004 for developing countries was almost five billion dollars, according to a recent report by the us congress. an increase that represents a value five times higher than in 2003, which will harm development by proliferating conflicts in africa and other continents, no one knows. this is the reality which calls, more than ever, for the application of strict and effective rules on arms exports. europe cannot promote construction through development aid while at the same time promoting destruction through the unregulated export of conventional arms. we therefore support - as mr romeva's excellent report does - the urgency of making this code of conduct legally binding for all member states. and that is why we welcome - as the commissioner, whom i welcome, has - the council's decision to push for a genuine universal treaty at the un that would establish common rules for the global arms trade. the arms embargo on china, which has repeatedly threatened taiwan, must not be lifted until china pays for the tiananmen prisoners and missing persons and improves human rights in general. as for the wuermeling report, it contains a fundamental aspect for the future of the european defence project and the common foreign policy, which is reflected in amendment no 6 by my group. no world power has fully open markets for defense equipment. the united states protects its defense industries with a buy american act. we have much to learn from our american friends here. it is essential to introduce european preference in the procurement of defence equipment by member states. this is to ensure the survival of one of the sectors which contributes significantly to the success of the lisbon strategy, to technological innovation and to the union's strategic autonomy. let us not be delusional, let us not be naive: planes are not bananas, tanks are not refrigerators. let us not treat this matter as if it were a mere question of markets. parliament must take the lead in this debate, which is above all political and strategic, and what we are proposing is a first step in that direction. finally, as regards mr kristovskis' report - which i also welcome - i believe that it is not possible to have a coherent and effective non-proliferation strategy if the five nuclear-authorized states, including two member states, continue to fail to fulfil their commitments to progressively disarm in accordance with article 6 of the npt and to ignore or react against powers which have become nuclear outside the npt, such as israel, india and pakistan. and this is all the more serious as, in addition to more states, non-state actors and terrorists are also seeking to get their hands on these illegal weapons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, there is a need to ensure the safety of workers and citizens in the production processes in the field of defence, as well as the efficiency of the companies themselves, and this also requires clear rules on defence procurement. there is an obligation to inform the european people of the interest in having modernised and efficient defence companies, linked to the innovative fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises working with technologies applicable to the civil and military fields, and there is also the importance of strategic coordination of the defence industries existing in the various states of the union using the european agency as one of the pivots of technological innovation and the improvement of products and processes in the various european companies in the sectors related to defence. in any case, we cannot allow the establishment of a military-industrial complex in the european union, which would be a condition for political power, the kind of complex whose powerful influence general eisenhower complained about when he left the american presidency. contracts have to be very clear. clear and understandable rules on defence procurement can help a great deal in this area. if this is not the case, business concentration will be concentrated in these industries, effectively preventing free competition from functioning in the european internal market itself. it is also urgently necessary to encourage innovative small and mediumsized enterprises to participate, in accordance with their competences, in the overall production process in the field of defence industries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in conclusion i would like to remind you of the need for the european union to seek to maintain a permanent coherence between its foreign policy and the rules of international trade, particularly with regard to embargoes. no one will understand that the defence industries of the union states ever support in practice the outbreak or maintenance of illegitimate wars or dictatorial regimes. that is not the vocation of europe, that cannot be the practice of the european union.
in writing. this vote was the culmination of a long negotiation process marked by enormous pressure, especially from the powerful chemical industry, dramatically increasing the economic costs that could result from the entry into force of the standards contained in the first version of reach. the british presidency itself accepted germany's request to postpone the decision on reach, scheduled for the next ministerial meeting, on the pretext of the delay in the new government taking office. in any case, we are in a first reading of the legislative procedure and we are faced with a text which is rather backward, although there are very positive aspects in which progress has been made and which it is now important to defend until the end of the negotiations with the council. it is recalled that reach creates a single integrated system for the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals in the european union, which aims to control and replace the most dangerous chemical agents (causing diseases such as cancer, affecting dna and the reproductive system, among other serious health problems); provide safety information on all chemicals at the registration stage and transmit information to consumers, workers and distributors. if we continue to yield to the pressure of the european chemical industry, we may weaken and distort the objectives of the programme, turning it into something even more burdensome than the current legislation, if it does not protect public health and safety.
in writing. the new regulation for chemicals on the market - reach - fills in obvious gaps in legislation and in our knowledge of the products we are exposed to every day. the registration of substances gives the european chemicals agency (also established by this regulation) the necessary authority to require more tests than those provided for each category, if there are grounds for doing so. a strong and efficient agency ensures that products are not marketed without the necessary precautions. data sharing is strongly encouraged and animal testing is thereby reduced to the strictly necessary. the imposition of a time limit on all authorizations and the obligation to submit a substitution plan for substances considered dangerous are also very positive aspects of this regulation. although i am pleased with the final result of the vote, i cannot help saying that i disagree with the inclusion of substances in tobacco, since they are already subject to their own legislation.
in writing. in this, as in all discussions, our duty is to defend the interests of the citizens, whether they are the most immediate or those that are more distant in time, little visible at present but of enormous relevance in the medium and long term. i voted in accordance with the criteria which i consider decisive when there is a - at least apparent - conflict between the interests of industry and the interests of environmental protection and public health. firstly, i believe that the protection of public health and the environment should be a priority, but i do not believe in fundamentalisms which make everything equal, which ignore the economic impact of the measures and, above all, which are unaware of the global dimension of these issues in the face of economies that do not shy away from environmental dumping. i am also convinced that european industry itself and the interests of competitiveness and technological innovation benefit from our demand. finally, i am convinced that the need to revive the european economy is urgent and worth our effort and commitment. i therefore believe that, in view of the amendments tabled, the vote in favour was the most justified, especially because i believe that there will still be an opportunity to make the necessary corrections, for example in the chapter on authorization.
in writing. although it is part of the wider discussion of the reach regulation, this proposal for a directive deals with a subject on which a broad agreement is easier to obtain. good consumer information is an essential element for a true market where freedom of choice can be effectively exercised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. we supported the rejection of the commission proposal because, as the rapporteur says, it is not based on the latest scientific knowledge and on the possibility of using technical means to avoid situations considered cruel to animals. the commission proposal follows the international agreement on non-cruel trapping between the european union, the usa, canada and russia. however, this agreement has already been rejected by the european parliament twice, and it only came into force because the commission and the council argued that they did not want to create a conflict situation with the usa and canada. what is at stake is the very concept of "not cruel". the european parliament's committee on the environment argues that traps which cause animals to suffer agony for five minutes or more cannot be considered 'non-cruel' when there are possibilities to avoid it today. in any event, it is unacceptable that the european commission has accepted the international agreement without first hearing the european parliament.
in writing. once again, in addition to all the issues raised by the report on the code of conduct on arms exports, i believe that the issue of banning arms exports to china is crucial and fully justifies my vote in favour of this report. it has been and remains my view that the european union should persist in its decision to ban, because this is above all a signal that the 25 member states are giving in their defence of human rights and also of international order and peace. china is and will remain a major player on the international stage and a very important economic partner of the eu. in my view, the development of the chinese market will be one of the ways of developing democracy and respect for human rights. but that path cannot be taken without demand. it is in this context that the prohibition is rightly placed. we will be economic partners, but we will be demanding partners committed to building a better world.
in writing. first of all, we would like to point out that parliament took the initiative in drawing up a report on non-proliferation and not on disarmament. we consider that the resolution, although it contains positive points, contains very serious ones. the consideration of the possibility of 'recourse to military force' in the context of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is very serious and unacceptable. the 'support' that this policy has given to the monumental operation of manipulation, aggression and occupation of iraq by the us and its allies - on the unacceptable and false grounds that that country had weapons of mass destruction - betrays its real aims and intentions. the association between the so-called 'war on terror' in partnership with the united states and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is dangerous - and not innocent. we also regret the rejection of our group's proposals for the creation of a european disarmament agency, for denouncing the us use of the united nations, for making europe a nuclear-weapon-free zone, for the withdrawal of us nuclear weapons from europe, or for urging germany to eliminate its uranium enrichment potential at the garching research reactor.
in writing. in matters of international policy, and when world security is at stake, the commitment in the declarations needs to be reflected in the ability to act accordingly. it is not possible to be exacting in words and indeterminate in actions. the questions raised by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction risk being one of those cases where the vehemence of statements is not accompanied by the same determination on the concrete political level, and very especially, and very significantly, on the diplomatic level. i think that the european union must first of all make some changes to the clarity of its speech. the widespread perception that the eu will not be consistent weakens our diplomatic position. i therefore vote in favour of this report, in the hope that its adoption will strengthen the eu's resolve in this matter. without preferring or even encouraging military solutions, but revealing determination and decision.
in writing. this report is part of the process of militarization of the european union - which the rejected 'european constitution' was intended to enshrine - by destroying one of its fundamental pillars: the development of the military industry in the different eu countries. the aim is to help strengthen the 'european' arms industry and what it considers to be its 'inevitable' process of concentration. the report is also clear on what is at stake, stating that six of the 25 eu countries purchase more than 90% of their military equipment - how much will they produce? the ep report is clear: it is intended to remove the competence for arms policy from the states, or rather the so-called 'small' states, by progressively creating a 'european defence market' 'in accordance with interoperability standards agreed in nato'. it called on the 'large' states and the big arms companies to overcome their contradictions, arguing that 'public contracts in the defence sector are governed more by european community legislation than by national legislation' and that 'a restrictive interpretation of national security interests is appropriate'. all under the "leadership" of the so-called "european defence agency". the arms race at its best... that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the aim, as advocated by the rapporteur, of promoting the creation of a european defence market and of making this market free and competitive, with clear respect for the specificities of the sector, is a purpose which i share and which i support. in that sense, my vote is understandably in favour. there is, however, one aspect - among many others - which deserves special attention. the defence market is one of those where investment in r & d is most relevant. all these objectives must therefore be accompanied by a european determination to modernise, to become more competitive and to rely on technological development as an important lever for economic development. the fact that a defence market is only possible if such investment is a clear option, therefore, gives me more reason to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. we are clearly critical of the serious and irresponsible statements by the president of iran regarding israel. the resolution, however, is illuminating on the policy of 'two weights and two measures' which characterises the european union. the resolution is characterised by a partial view of the situation in the middle east, incorporating aspects that are part of a logic of escalation of the confrontation. the resolution, while taking the blame for iran's support for terrorism, ignores the very serious responsibility of the us, israel and the eu itself for the worsening of the situation in the region. the consequences of the aggression and military occupation of iraq by the united states and its allies are not denounced. the situation in palestine is referred to as a 'conflict', whitewashing the occupation of palestine and the most brutal violation of the fundamental rights of the palestinian people by israel. iran is required to comply with its international obligations in the development of its nuclear programme, without questioning what is required of other countries in the region which have developed programmes and possess nuclear weapons. the statements made by the president of iran only serve to make the situation more difficult in a region completely destabilized by the policy of interference, war and domination carried out by the united states, with the support of its regional and european allies.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, this has been an extremely interesting and informative debate with a typically wide range of views expressed. i am pleased to see that members of the european parliament are so engaged in these important issues. i certainly look forward to discussing them further with the delegation that will be going to hong kong. the key message i take from this debate is that we should maintain our level of ambition for the round as a whole. we should be supporting the package of measures for developing countries outlined by commissioner mandelson and this must be seen as a down-payment with more to come, not a final deal. we should not underestimate the benefits of trade to the developing world. just look at where south korea was in the 1950s – a country with a similar level of income to the average in the continent of africa – and compare that with where it is today as a result of trade. look at china, which over the last 20 years has taken one third of a billion people out of extreme poverty as a result of trade. the results are enormously impressive. our objective should be to kick open the door to the developed world’s economies for the least-developed countries. that is what the eu package is about. however, we should not underestimate the benefits of an ambitious trade round to the european union either. as commissioner mandelson said, the benefits in terms of services and nama if we achieve a balanced outcome to the round will be of benefit to the eu economy and indeed the world economy as a whole. there are difficult issues in this trade round. we have heard about sugar, bananas, cotton: all these require discussion internally and will be part of the negotiations. as the uk presidency we fully support the commission and its negotiating tactics in the round. commissioner mandelson has made a serious offer that requires serious consideration by other countries. we now need to see progress on nama, on services, on the part of brazil, india and other countries. i would like to say to you, the members of this parliament, that we recognise that we all have to take any final deal home and justify it to our electorates. i was asked about the specific arrangements for hong kong as regards the european parliament delegation. the uk presidency is making plans to meet with members of the delegation near the launch of the conference and hopefully again towards the end. the commission will be holding daily briefings that will be given to meps. we are also planning a reception co-hosted with the commission for meps to meet with eu ministers. once again, i thank you for your time today and for your support in our preparations for hong kong.
member of the commission. madam president, the remark with which i agree most came from the honourable member who said that the commissioner certainly does not have an easy job in knitting together the interests, views and policies of 25 member states and then fitting those 25 views into the 149 wto members – minus of course we 25. one thing i am sure about in my approach to hong kong and in the approach to the round as a whole, is that i have an obligation to do what is right in the long term, rather than what will get me cheers in the short term. i have found in my time in this job that it is very easy to play to a gallery. it is very easy to mouth the slogans; to say the things that will please the people you are talking to; to get them to champion you and give you all the cheers in the world. but when i say what is right in the long term, rather than what will get me praise in the short term, i mean: what is right for the global economy as a whole? what is right for multilateralism and multilateral processes and institutions? what is right not just for us in europe, but for developing countries? there are very many different sorts, sizes and states of development in developing countries, as i am finding out. there is also considerable public interest in this round. i am grateful to bob geldof for giving out my email address, which has now clocked up something approaching 100 000 messages from members of the public wishing me well at hong kong. i am sure that he did so in the best possible spirit. i know that those who have been speaking this afternoon speak for and reflect that public opinion. i greatly welcome and value the joint parliamentary resolution on the doha round which has been put together. i take it as a strong signal of support for the commission and my approach in the round. i have always welcomed the guidance and wisdom of the european parliament and will continue to do so at hong kong and beyond. i am sorry that my fellow countryman, mr farage, has not remained in the chamber. well, he has a very pressing diary with many engagements. unfortunately, in his hatred of all things european, he got slightly carried away with his description and praise of the us agricultural offer that has been tabled. at first sight, the us market access offer is indeed ambitious. but it also tactical and highly unrealistic, as i suspect they know. on domestic support, the us offer – which i strongly welcomed at the time and continue to do so – is far from being as ambitious as it seemed. it presents no real cuts in actual levels of spending. it brings down the ceilings of spending, but that is not, of course, quite the same thing. when it comes to its main domestic support programme, its counter cyclical payments, those remain untouched by the proposals that the united states has tabled. on export competition the united states is very ambitious: very ambitious with our export subsidies, not quite so ambitious when it comes to its own export credits and its own food aid. however, i am sure it is only a matter of time before the us offer is improved and i look forward to that negotiation. agriculture, however, is very important to get right in this round. the uruguay round made limited inroads into agricultural protection. inevitably, therefore, agriculture is a focus of the doha round. but let us not overlook the fact that the biggest welfare gains for all developing countries will come from liberalisation, not of agriculture, but in industrial goods, which account for 75% of developing countries’ trade and most of the tariffs that they pay. that is why this must not be an agriculture-only round. it must be balanced. mr désir was right about agricultural liberalisation. of course agricultural liberalisation will benefit some developing countries. the highly competitive agricultural exporters in the developing world, like brazil and argentina, are the developing countries that will be the chief beneficiaries. but the biggest winners in most agricultural liberalisation scenarios would be in the developed world, not the developing world, including large agricultural exporters such as australia and new zealand. that is not me speaking, that is the world bank speaking in its recent publication. let me just make two last points about non-agricultural market access and services. in nama i want to give an assurance to honourable members that we are certainly not asking from developing countries what we are prepared to do for and give ourselves. the principle of less than full reciprocity is important; it means commitments according to capacity and we shall certainly uphold that. on services, the eu does not impose trade liberalisation on developing countries. we offer a free choice of sectors for developing countries. there is no pressure to open sectors such as education, health or water, although, in the case of water, i think many would benefit from such an advance. it is simply not the case that we are imposing overnight liberalisation; transition periods for developing countries would be of their own choice. we will not be proposing liberalisation of audiovisual services. lastly, on the subject of sugar, i think that mrs kinnock was right in her description of the anger amongst acp countries. there is indeed a virtual eur 40 million offer on the table and i was not right in saying, as i had been advised this morning, that this figure had been agreed with acp countries. there is certainly a marked imbalance between what is on offer in the sugar action programme to acp countries and what we are offering to our domestic sugar producers. before we reach final conclusions on this, we need to think through the implications of what we are offering. but clearly, on the question of budgetary allocation, we look to the council and parliament, as there are conflicting views and voices in this matter in both the council and parliament. in conclusion, as far as our transparency with the european parliament in hong kong is concerned, we will keep in close touch with the european parliament members who are there. they will participate at meetings at the interparliamentary conference that will take place in hong kong. i look forward to regular daily contact with parliamentarians, so that together we get this meeting right.
the commissioner, who is leading the negotiations on behalf of the council and the commission for the so-called doha round of the wto, said that the ambitions for international trade liberalization remained intact, despite the reduced expectations for the outcome of the hong kong summit. the commissioner's ambitions - which are also part of the negotiating mandate - are the same as those expressed by the confederations of large employers for the ninth time in their declaration of 21 november: greater liberalisation in agriculture, access to the market for industrial products and services, and the guarantee that the round of negotiations will be concluded by the end of 2006. liberalisation which, as the latest undp report points out, has increased inequalities. what they want is control of international trade within the framework of capitalist competition, where the large economic and financial groups would control the economies of the states, their agriculture, industrial production, services and natural resources. the reality, resulting from the offensive of capitalism, is dramatic and unacceptable. it calls for a new international order based on cooperation, solidarity and development, respect for the sovereignty of each state, its right to respond to the needs of its people and to manage its resources.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new outbreaks of avian influenza in asian countries and some european countries, following the situation in italy and the netherlands where many millions of birds were killed, justify the need to take more effective measures in the field of prevention and to establish appropriate mechanisms to support member states where outbreaks of the disease may occur so that there is rapid intervention, isolation and prevention of their spread. so, without being alarmist, and in view of the public health consequences of possible epidemics, it is necessary to act with the greatest effectiveness and readiness in prevention, both in the european union and in third countries, especially in asia. although avian influenza has a worldwide distribution and affects most poultry, its distribution is influenced by the relationship between poultry and wild birds, the location of poultry production units, the routes of migratory birds and the seasons. it is now known that surveillance and prevention are very important, even for low pathogenic viruses, given the possibility of mutation to a high pathogenic virus after spreading for short periods in a poultry population. and although this type of infection is not common in humans, it is known that in recent years outbreaks of infection caused by certain viruses (bird flu) have been documented causing the death of dozens of people in asia. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has therefore, in the light of the opinions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on budgets, whose rapporteurs, mr robert sturdy and mr jan mulder, i thank for their work, insisted on the need to strengthen the commission's proposal in five key areas. first, the focus on prevention and monitoring, starting with the identification of risk areas in each country, to avoid the possible consequences for public health of an avian influenza epidemic. secondly, greater community support for the development of oral vaccine research for the various cases and its application, if necessary, and 100% sharing of the burden of vaccination. thirdly, community support to member states for the development of a disease surveillance/monitoring system, including laboratory diagnostics and research (especially of appropriate vaccines). fourthly, the development of cooperation and technical assistance measures for third countries, especially asian countries, to ensure the prevention and control of avian influenza in the countries of origin. fifthly, greater support for farmers who face loss of income if they have to slaughter birds, destroy eggs, clean and disinfect farms and equipment, and contaminate food, with the european union sharing part of these costs with the member states. the level of community financial assistance, which according to the committee on agriculture should be 50% of the expenditure borne by the member states, should be the same for both cases of highly pathogenic and low pathogenic influenza, because if there is intervention and slaughter of animals the losses are the same. it seems to me, however, that this is a case where it is worthwhile to increase the community contribution to 60%, as i propose, since if a state is faced with such a situation after having taken the necessary preventive measures, it should be the target of community solidarity, even to prevent the spread of the disease. i also have another proposal for which i would ask the house to support. it seems to me that it is more socially just to support any poultry farmers whose farms are affected by the disease, not only for the costs and losses caused, but also by 50% of the income lost during the period of launching a new farm, without prejudice, of course, to market mechanisms. finally, i would like to thank you for your cooperation in the preparation of this report and i hope that the commission and the council will take due account of the european parliament's proposals so that all the necessary efforts can be made to prevent and combat possible outbreaks of disease, trying to prevent their spread in the defence of public health.
the following is a joint discussion of the reports drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr van hecke, drawn up on behalf of the committee on international trade, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the compulsory granting of patents for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems (com (2004) 0737 - c6-0168/2004 - 2004/0258 (cod)) (a6-0242/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the debate on the report by mr andrew duff, drawn up on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the guidelines for the adoption of the european commission (2005/2024 (ini)) (a6-0179/2005) will continue.
the duff report opens a ritual of parliamentary approval by the european commission, followed by almost silence on the subject in the rules of procedure. this ritual qualifies the importance of the political fact of the commission's approval. first, because it shows a higher degree of demand and gives it another basis of legitimacy. secondly, because parliament is thus increasingly taking up a role in the process of forming the commission that is far from being merely symbolic. thirdly, because this creates a new relationship of influence between the european political institutions, which anticipates the mechanisms of control and accountability inherent in constitutional semantics. the commission's parliamentary approval procedure now has a framework of rules which establish greater fairness in the hearing of candidates by parliamentary committees and greater consistency in the final evaluation, which is now agreed in the conference of presidents and the conference of committee chairs. it is good for us all to be aware that procedures in a democratic order do not have a merely formal or symbolic meaning. the procedures synthesise the values of public morality in the machinery of the institutions, and transfer to that machinery the claims of the community which judges it and justifies it. the european political process has become more demanding as it has become more ambitious. it must therefore be a process of intense scrutiny, generating strong institutions and leaderships capable of opening the doors to the future. europe can no longer recognize itself without this growing visibility and legitimacy of its institutions, without this demand for probity and responsibility which is imposed on everyone, but which is especially imposed on political leaders, since they are the ones who have responsibility for the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the debate on the oral question to the commission by martine roure and maria berger, on behalf of the pse group, kathalijne maria buitenweg, on behalf of the greens/efa group, diana wallis and sarah ludford, on behalf of the alde group, on the application of criminal sanctions in the event of infringement of community law (o-0085/2005/rev.2 - b6-0336/2005) will continue.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr roure, for his excellent report. as you know, the epp-ed group was not enthusiastic about this debate taking place tonight. we think it would have made more sense if the parliamentary committees concerned had first of all carefully considered the commission's communication on the implications of this judgment, but beyond this difference in procedure, we agree on the substance. i thank the vice-president of the commission, mr franco frattini, for the answers he has already given to the house and i congratulate him on the court's decision, which is a decision which goes against the concern we have to strengthen community law and to strengthen what is the first pillar and all that we can decide in the first pillar, not the third, in these matters. i believe that the court thus recognises that criminal law and procedure do not fall within the competence of the community, but that this does not prevent the community legislature from adopting measures relating to the criminal law of the member states, if they are consistent and necessary to ensure the effectiveness of community law. it's a useful precedent that's open. i think the commission will take advantage of it. mr frattini, vice-president of the commission, can be sure that parliament will take advantage of this precedent. mrs roure has already referred to the consequences of this agreement, in addition to the environmental issue, in many other areas, including what is most essential to us, which has to do with fundamental freedoms when it is necessary to resort to criminal law measures to ensure their effectiveness. one of the consequences to which the commissioner has already referred is that some framework decisions have been adopted on the wrong legal basis. i believe that the judgment refers to seven framework decisions. it is therefore essential to regularise this situation by adopting rapid and simple community instruments which should replace these framework decisions in the context of codecision. so the question i would like to ask you, commissioner, is whether you can give us an indication of the timing that the commission will follow in presenting these initiatives so that, in the context of codecision, we can quickly move beyond the legal framework that is outdated by virtue of the judgment.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, drawn up on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the application of community competition rules to maritime transport (2005/2033 (ini)) (a6-0314/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the debate on the report by mrs patrizia toia, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the regulation and european electronic communications markets in 2004 (2005/2052 (ini)) (a6-0305/2005) will continue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
in writing. although the european parliament's proposals make improvements to the european commission's proposed regulation, they do not call into question the central issue, namely the monopoly and control of pharmaceutical companies over medicines through patenting. the proposals put forward by the european parliament continue to 'legalize' and impose a 'compulsory' model of dispensing essential medicines to huge populations in the face of profound regulatory cynicism, without giving priority to the creation of mechanisms to promote research and the development of research capacity, manufacture and supply by these and those peoples of the medicines that are essential to them and to which they have a right. the aim is to 'regulate' access to medicines by so-called underdeveloped countries, so that multinationals can charge cheaper prices and thus expand their market without losing the privileges they retain. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial' in the definition of the term 'commercial'. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. although i think that we are still far from ideal solutions, i think it is worth applauding the effort made in the proposal for a regulation - in particular with some of the amendments voted by the european parliament to make it possible for the poorest countries to fight diseases of enormous gravity, and which cause enormous mortality, more effectively and less costly. the protection of property rights, in particular intellectual property rights, is not and cannot be considered incompatible with the defence and commitment we must make to the objective of making the medicines that the poorest countries need most accessible to them.
in writing. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the best way to avoid a possible human pandemic of avian influenza is to eradicate the disease from birds effectively and completely. it is therefore in this direction that the community's research and financial efforts should be directed, in particular in the development and production of oral vaccines against multiple strains which are effective in all relevant bird species. we also thought it appropriate to amend the directive currently in force by adopting control measures which also cover low pathogenicity viruses in poultry, in order to avoid the risk of evolving into highly pathogenic viruses. the report, together with a whole series of measures to prevent human infection, could only have been voted for.
in writing. i welcome the approval of my report. it is important that there be greater community support for the development of oral vaccine research for the various cases and its application where necessary, as well as 100% burden sharing with vaccination. community support to member states for the development of a disease surveillance/monitoring system, including laboratory diagnostics and research into appropriate vaccines, and the development of cooperation and technical assistance actions for third countries, in particular asian countries, in order to ensure the prevention and screening of avian influenza in the countries of origin is also important; as for the level of community financial assistance, it has only gone up to 50% of the expenditure borne by the member states, and it should be the same for both high and low pathogenic influenza cases, and my proposal to increase it to 60 has been rejected, which i regret. the proposal for 50% support for loss of income during the period of setting up a new farm was also rejected, without prejudice, of course, to market mechanisms. in any event, i hope that the commission and the council will take due account of the proposals adopted in the interests of public health.
in writing. public health measures cost money. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. not only is there the possibility of a worldwide pandemic, but it must be borne in mind that certain member states may be more easily affected because of their location as a transit point for migratory wild birds. if we add to this the need for prevention, in particular in the development of disease monitoring and surveillance systems, laboratory costs and research into new vaccines, we realise the scale of the financial effort required. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to amend regulation 974/98, which was the legal framework during the transitional period for the adoption of the euro by the current members of the euro area. the aim is now to use this legal framework for the countries that joined the european union on 1 may 2004 and which have a legal obligation to join the euro area. one of the key issues is to shorten the transitional period and provide for an optional solution known as the 'big bang', with the introduction of euro banknotes and coins at the same time as the adoption of the euro as a monetary unit. the report by parliament goes the same way and even tries to impose the idea that no member state can leave the euro zone, which is unacceptable. we believe that a member state has every right to leave the euro zone. it is discriminatory to try to impose such a situation on new member states when it is known that two countries have an opt-out clause (denmark and england) and another has decided not to join (sweden). that is why we are voting against, and we are certain that we will maintain our position of principle against the euro. moreover, the consequences of monetary policy are already clear, with economic stagnation and unemployment, which still ...... (abbreviated explanation of vote pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the idea of voluntary crossborder cooperation deserves my support and i advocate its encouragement. as a general rule, forms of cooperation between the administrations of the different member states, especially when they result from a voluntary initiative of those administrations (although it can be encouraged) and do not result in a new administrative and bureaucratic entity, seem to me to be of great use. and in this case, the fact that it includes crossborder neighbourhoods outside the eu also seems to me to be commendable. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report. there is, however, one aspect which i cannot overlook. these initiatives cannot be encouraged, encouraged and, above all, conceived in an alternative logic to the central powers. that is to say, the european union cannot, by means of these incentives, seek to achieve results of internal disintegration of the states, which can only be detrimental to each of the member states in particular, but above all because that is not, should not and cannot be the function or purpose of the union.
in writing. the euro introduction regulation has proved to be a good legal framework during the transition period to the adoption of the euro in the current euro area countries. it therefore seems to be a suitable basis for future member states to join the european currency. certain technical adaptations will be necessary. but more importantly, after the experience of the changeover to the euro, there is a need to fine-tune communication strategies in order to provide, in particular, for the dual indication of prices for the information of citizens and also the modification of the time limits for the circulation of the two currencies, as well as to extend the time limits for the exchange of the old currency with the banks. i therefore voted in favour of mr rosati's report.
in writing. since october 1992, and after three extensions (until the end of 2005), the council has decided to maintain the minimum standard rate of vat in the european union at 15%. the commission's present proposal now aims to extend this rate once again until 31 december 2010, which deserves our agreement. the initial intention of establishing a minimum rate was to create a band with a maximum rate which would be harmonised to a single vat rate for the whole community. although no member state has a rate below 15% or above 25%, the establishment of this band for this purpose would undermine the fiscal sovereignty of the member states and their options for financing the community budget. however, the report reintroduces the question, which leads us to vote against. it also intends, in a subtle way, to accelerate the debate on vat harmonization, which calls into question other elements of the flexibility of the present system, in particular the reduced vat rates in accordance with the different social and cultural choices of the various member states. which reinforces, once again, our vote against.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to take part in the fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. liberalisation means attacking the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the big multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers and the undermining of food sovereignty and food security. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the community's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe, and it has been a key player in the development of the community's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. that's all that's at stake.
in writing. the conviction that the development of international trade contributes to economic growth, development, employment and - also - to a better environment in international relations is fortunately now widely held. nevertheless, there are still groups today with conflicting agendas and programmes, but who are engaged in a common struggle against a freer and more open world for trade. it is good that we do not follow these voices, but it is also necessary to understand the origin of these discontents, because politics is not done by ignoring reality. in this context, this joint resolution addresses the most important concerns and the most defensible positions. i believe that the european union must at the same time take a clear and strong negotiating position but also a sincere desire to support economic development and the growth of world trade. i therefore welcome the statement in this resolution that the objective of supporting economic growth in developing countries is to be upheld. the emphasis on social, environmental, labour, cultural and, needless to say, economic concerns is also positive. more international trade, and more fair trade, without ever forgetting the responsibilities we also have towards our own citizens.
in writing. regardless of the assessment of the principles, criteria and standards to be submitted to the commission as a collegiate body, it is not permissible for the european parliament to approve reports stating that the entry into force of the constitution is foreseen on 1 november 2006. "only a huge obsession with federalism and neoliberalism leads the majority of parliament to insist on this thesis, even after the defeat in the referendums in france and the netherlands that prevent the adoption of the european constitution. there are positive aspects to the evaluation criteria and principles, but we must not forget that more than competence, commitment and suitability are the policies they advocate, either individually or collectively. that is a fundamental basis of our appreciation and evaluation.
in writing. maritime transport is vital to portugal, given our important coastline. they are also important for the whole union, which has a large stretch of sea borders. i therefore believe that it is essential to provide the union with a viable and competitive european navy within the framework of the lisbon strategy. community action on competition in maritime transport must take account of the emergence of new maritime nations such as china, korea or taiwan. it is therefore essential to have instruments to protect the new frameworks for commercial cooperation between liner operators on traffic to or from the union. i therefore voted in favour of mrs kratsa's report.
in writing. without entering into a debate on tax harmonization and the common vat system, the main purpose of this resolution is to extend for another year (end of 2006) the experimental period for member states that have opted to introduce reduced vat rates for labour-intensive services. we thought that this one-off measure could help to promote job creation while reducing the shadow economy, and there is still a long way to go to assess the socioeconomic impact of this measure, which also allows greater flexibility in indirect taxation. it should be borne in mind that the abrupt termination of this measure could result in higher prices. this system should apply to all the present member states and discrimination against the new member states is not acceptable.
on 30 november, the european commission published its proposals for fishing quotas and associated measures for 2006 under the common fisheries policy, to be adopted by the council by the end of the year. the commission states that its objective is to reconcile, as far as possible, a gradual approach to the restoration of fish stocks with the continuation of fishing activities. however, the proposals which the commission is putting forward for reducing fishing effort are not accompanied by an assessment of the economic and social costs, particularly for fishermen. the fisheries sector, particularly in portugal, is already being hit hard, among other things by the increase in fuel prices, and i therefore call for measures at community level, especially since it is a matter of a common policy to support the income of fishermen, especially in small-scale coastal fishing, in order to safeguard the future of the sector.
portugal has been plagued by the relocation of businesses, which is aggravating unemployment to alarming levels, particularly affecting women. this time it is the american multinational delphi which has just announced the closure of one of its units, the linho cable factory, which once had some 1 200 workers and is now pressing the remaining 300 to lay off when it is known that the multinational delphi has made profits in the various factories it owns in portugal, with a total profit of millions of euros. i therefore, mr president, expressing my full solidarity with these workers, once again call on the council and the commission to take urgent measures to prevent the worsening of unemployment and to put a stop to these wild relocations of multinationals in the various countries of the european union and, in particular, in portugal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the recommendation for second reading, by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and accumulators and their waste and repealing directive 91/157/eec (5694/5/2005 - c6-0268/2005 - 2003/0282 ((cod)) (rapporteur: joahnnes blokland) (a6-0335/2005) is hereby adopted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
regardless of party considerations, it is always possible to compare the ceiling and priorities of the community budget for 2006, about 1.01% of community gni, with that of 2005, or with the proposals of the luxembourg and british presidencies for the financial framework 2007-2013. but let us not forget that the 2000-06 financial framework foresees 1.08% of community gni for next year, or that the european parliament's proposal for the 2007-13 financial framework provides for 1.0% and that of the commission for about 1.14%. in fact, in recent years there has been a real reduction in the community budget, aiming to fix it at around 1%, with the structural funds representing only 0.36 to 0.37% of community gni, which meets the requirements of the economically more developed countries of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the amsterdam treaty has made enormous progress in combating discrimination by extending the concept to other dimensions beyond equality between men and women. the principle of equality and non-discrimination is an integral part of the core of fundamental rights that underpin the eu. this proposal designates 2007 as the european year of equal opportunities for all, with a view to promoting equality and eliminating all forms of discrimination. the idea of organising this initiative arose from the evaluation of the results in the green paper on equality and combating discrimination in the enlarged eu. it will help to promote three priorities: information and awareness-raising; analysis and monitoring of the impact of anti-discrimination legislation; and networking between stakeholder groups. promoting equal opportunities is key to achieving a more cohesive, competitive and dynamic society and economy, reaping the benefits of diversity. we should therefore increase awareness-raising initiatives of this kind to combat discriminatory attitudes and behaviour and to inform citizens of their rights and obligations. it should also act as a kind of awareness-raising campaign to put pressure on member states which are still lacking to transpose the directives quickly.
in writing. at a time when discrimination, inequalities and social injustices are on the increase, it is worth reaffirming that non-discrimination is a fundamental principle which must be respected in all policies - economic, social and cultural, we add - but it falls short of what is required in view of the seriousness of the social situation in the various eu countries. although it mentions the need to respect rights and equal opportunities, the need for participation and the right to information - increasing knowledge and awareness of rights (added, acquired, lost or to be acquired) - the report does not identify the determining causes of their violation or non-fulfilment. when workers are confronted with a generalized offensive against their rights and social gains, an offensive that is promoted at eu level, by more awareness campaigns and propaganda that are carried out or by more containment measures that are promoted, the reality and the consequences of the capitalist offensive will prevail, that is, the most unbridled exploitation, the destruction of public services and their appropriation by private capital, poverty and social injustice. equal opportunities first require the fight against the policies that attack them.
in writing. equal treatment, enshrined in the treaty of amsterdam, is a fundamental right of all citizens. in order to take stock of the progress made in the fight against discrimination and at the same time to gather views on how the union could strengthen its action in this area, the european commission launched in may 2004 a wide consultation in the form of a green paper entitled 'equality and combating discrimination in the enlarged eu'. it was from the evaluation of the results of this publication that the idea of organising a 'european year of equal opportunities for all' in 2007 was born. the initiative has four objectives: to raise public awareness, stimulate debate, promote the concept of diversity and promote respect and tolerance. despite the abundance of european legislation in the field of combating discrimination, many citizens are either unaware of it or are not familiar with it. the promotion of a media event such as a 'european year' should therefore be supported as it represents an excellent instrument for raising awareness and informing european public opinion. the european year will also put pressure on member states which are lagging behind in transposing the equality directives.
in writing. while it is true that discrimination, for whatever reason, is widely combated from a legal point of view, it is not possible to state categorically that all discrimination is prevented and combated in practice. the commission argues that it is in this context that a european year of equal opportunities for all will make sense. i've never been a big fan of celebrating as a way of solving problems. on the contrary, i have always feared that the promotion of international years or days on this or that subject might have a pernicious effect, only succeeding in concealing ignorance of the problem in the remaining days or years. there is, however, a recent tradition of promoting these initiatives, with a widespread belief that there is - and indeed there is - a side to the cause of increased visibility that is advantageous. i therefore consider that the theme of celebration dealt with in this report justifies my vote in favour.
in writing. as the epp shadow rapporteur i supported this excellent report by mrs roure. denmark cannot use an option of inclusion under the protocol, as neither the eurodac regulation nor the dublin ii regulation are part of the development of schengen. this is why an international agreement between the community and denmark and a protocol to the agreement between the community, iceland and norway are needed. the proposals are aimed at extending to denmark the provisions of the eurodac system and the determination of the member state responsible for examining an asylum application. it is a positive step, although the conclusion of such agreements should be exceptional and transitional. these situations raise serious doubts as to the different guarantees that asylum seekers will enjoy if their asylum application is dealt with in denmark or in one of the member states participating in the european asylum policy, as denmark will apply these two regulations but will remain outside all other measures taken under this policy. i agree with the rapporteur that the legal basis to be applied will be the second paragraph of article 300 (3) tec, i.e. that parliament should have been consulted in the process of giving a favourable opinion.
in writing. this proposal deserves our agreement. the activity of the different fleets of the member states operating under fisheries agreements and protocols between the european union and third countries should not be interrupted for administrative reasons, in particular because of the long negotiation periods and legal ratification procedures to which these agreements are subject. these disruptions often last for several months, with vessels being immobilized and fishermen unemployed, creating difficulties in supplying fish to the national and community markets. the proposal thus allows the third country to issue fishing licences on the date provided for in the exchange of letters between the two parties, even before the final adoption of the text of the agreement by the council. we hope that this proposal will enter into force as soon as possible and we shall see whether its implementation will ensure that fleets are not brought to a standstill or, at the very least, that the current periods are significantly reduced. in any event, the costs of long negotiation periods and renewal of agreements should not be borne by fishermen and the necessary economic and social compensation mechanisms should be established to ensure the survival of fishermen.
in writing. the report under consideration deserves my approval for two reasons. firstly, because it is clearly necessary, so that administrative and bureaucratic difficulties do not cause further difficulties for the fishing industry. but there is another reason why i agree with this report. as the rapporteur says, this whole process is excessively bureaucratic, inefficient and unjustified. i would even say that it is almost kafkaesque nonsense, this whole succession of agreements and provisional licences imposed by a highly inconvenient mechanism. i therefore support the rapporteur in her wish that this situation be reviewed. the competitiveness of a european industry - in the case of fisheries - cannot be constrained by bureaucratic inefficiency in the community institutions.
in writing. the goodwill and good intentions which underlie the assumptions of the programme in question deserve my agreement. as for the actual effectiveness of its execution, i have some doubts. however, since we are discussing a provisional programming, i think our concern should be to approve this programme in good time, with the new framework that has now been given to it, concentrating our efforts on the revision and, above all, the evaluation of past programmes, in the design of the future eia regulation. the eu's foreign policy - because that is what it is about - must be effective. and efficiency is only proven by evaluating the results. this must therefore be one of our main concerns in the next legislative moment in this matter.
in writing. of all the aspects which are mentioned in this report, and which justify my vote in favour because they fall within a balanced perspective of environmental protection, consumer protection and the promotion of energy efficiency, there is one which i think should be highlighted. my attitude in favour of a free and open economy is always based on the assumption that full access to information is possible, or at least encouraged, because without information the consumer is not truly free to choose. it is therefore the rapporteur's concern with the information to be provided to consumers that i would like to highlight in my vote in favour.
in writing. a compromise has been reached which is further back than the initial proposals, but it is good to try to achieve greater efficiency in the final use of energy, and we therefore support measures which actually aim at this objective. ♪ however, while the final proposal maintains the recognition of the important role that the public sector can play in this area, notably in launching energy efficiency pilot projects, in the context of public procurement, by establishing energy efficiency criteria, or also by encouraging the integration of energy efficiency improvement requirements into their investments, it insists on free competition. so our final abstention vote is based on this disagreement with amendment no 60, which is, moreover, completely inappropriate. we cannot agree that, on the subject of energy efficiency, one should insist on market liberalization as the rapporteur did, or insist on 'safeguarding a level playing field for all energy suppliers'. we think this is a strategic sector where the state must maintain a dominant position.
in writing. the european union must be more consistent in its approach to energy efficiency, whether it is in terms of consistency with its discourse - and its attitude - to major environmental agreements such as kyoto, or in terms of rationality, particularly economic and environmental rationality. the emphasis in these matters should, in my view, be on efficiency and rationality. these should be the standards which guide our environmental and energy policies.
in writing. the proposal for amending budget no 8/2005, as amended by the letter of amendment of 16 november 2005, is worrying because it cancels the request for additional payment needs of the original €650 million for the structural funds (taking into account that some €380 million had already been obtained through transfers from other headings), in addition to cutting the same amount in expenditure on agricultural markets. the committee is concerned that the payments made and the few applications received from the new member states do not even guarantee the full implementation of the appropriations available under the structural funds, especially as we are nearing the end of the current financial framework and there is the so-called 'n+2' rule, which automatically cancels commitment expenditure when it is not implemented within two years. the return of own resources to the member states will amount to some €3.9 billion, obviously benefiting the main net contributors. while not creating the conditions for the effective and full implementation of the structural funds, as would be desirable, these returns will once again help to meet the constraints imposed by the stability pact, contributing to the reduction of deficits in some of these countries.
in writing. the economic value of simplified and speedy proceedings is enormous, as countries benefiting from both secure and speedy judicial systems well know. a european order for payment procedure, as is proved by similar instruments at national level, is precisely in this direction, promoting greater legal certainty in commercial transactions and better justice. however, as several member states have mentioned, they must ensure that its scope does not exceed what is reasonable and necessary in the field of cooperation between sovereign states. with these considerations, my vote was in favour.
in writing. the taxation of companies was already one of the topics covered by the so-called monti package for tax harmonization. after the adoption of the lisbon strategy, the creation of an internal market without tax obstacles gained new impetus. the proposal, under article 94 of the treaty on the approximation of laws, advances the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base. the objectives are clear: to remove tax barriers for companies carrying out crossborder operations and to create the conditions for large multinational companies to operate under a single system of dividend distribution and crossborder profit and loss compensation, facilitating restructuring, merger and acquisition operations. it thus contributes to the effective implementation of the european company statute by increasing the possibilities of 'legal' tax evasion for these companies and not by preventing tax evasion, contrary to what it claims. the european parliament, in its maximalist spirit, even proposes the possibility of moving forward with enhanced cooperation in this field if some member states do not want to go down this road. we have always rejected this approach, not only because it is contrary to the fiscal sovereignty of the member states, but also because it does not solve the fundamental problem of the burden of taxation falling on labour. that is why we voted against this report.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in march and the jha council in april 2004 defended the need for data retention rules, considering that modern telecommunications, with all the benefits inherent in them, can be exploited by international crime and, in particular, by terrorism. as a result of these decisions, we have received a framework decision which was rejected by the european parliament, and we have received the present proposal for a directive which, as president cavada said, is positive in that it takes account of the prerogatives of this parliament through a new legal basis which is being proposed to us. i cannot, however, but regret that we have been forced to work in an extremely short space of time. but we tried our best. it was a very difficult negotiation and the compromise reached is far from ideal, but it was possible if we want to reach an agreement at first reading. unlike other colleagues, i think the decision to set a retention period between a minimum of six months and a maximum of 24 months is a positive one. we cannot risk our joint crime-fighting effort failing because data has been deleted too soon or not even retained. but i think it is essential to ensure that the data retained are stored securely and that there can be no abuse of any kind by strengthening the rules on data protection, security and access. member states should lay down appropriate penalties in accordance with their national law. if we fail to make these rules effective, we put the fundamental rights of the human person at risk. it is good to have a clause calling for us to come back in three years' time to assess the system which we have now approved, and it is good to have the requirement for transparency and the public nature of the assessment which the european commission is to present. i hope that this evaluation, which will be provided by commissioner frattini, will help us to make a rigorous assessment of the effectiveness of the adoption of these instruments.
madam president, in the committee on transport and tourism it was possible to reach a compromise on the subject under discussion, which was well expressed in the text of amendment no 49. disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility have the same rights as other citizens to free movement, freedom of choice and non-discrimination. these rights apply to air transport as well as to other areas of human life. all the following is a consequence of this generous principle and we welcome it. it has been extended from the initial concept to include not only persons with reduced mobility but also other persons with physical or mental disabilities, which is worth noting. this broad concept may be more demanding for operators or may involve higher costs, but the truth is that the problem is not, and cannot be, with people, but rather with the need to ensure accessibility of infrastructure, modes of transport and services, for which fair and equitable solutions must be found. the problem is that, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot remove one barrier by creating another. that is why we congratulate the rapporteur on the commitment shown in adopting the amendments, particularly those relating to the division of responsibilities between airports and airlines, recognising the cases where airlines already offer this service with a high quality, often differentiating it from competitors and without additional burdens. madam president, just two final notes. one to highlight the detail used in drafting the proposal the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from discrimination. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. in short, it is a good report, and i congratulate mr evans and all those who have contributed to the excellent compromise reached.
we welcome the compromise reached and hope that it will not be altered to ensure that the regions affected by the statistical effect retain the same treatment as regards state aid as that applied to the regions in the convergence objective, the same being proposed for the outermost regions. as stated in the report, cohesion policies and state aid policies are complementary. state aid is a fundamental instrument of the states to promote their regional development and real convergence between the different countries of the european union. state aid is an important lever for promoting public investment, sustainable economic development, in particular by ensuring public services in the less-favoured regions. in addition, the existence of public services of a high quality is essential to achieve the objective of social, economic and territorial cohesion. each state should define its public sectors and services, their appropriate financing and organisation, and in no case should they fall within the scope of the application of state aid rules. states, even in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, should be able to use this instrument to respond appropriately to the specific development needs of their less-favoured regions. competition in international trade is putting increasing pressure on the less favoured regions. this competition causes the closure and relocation of businesses and the increase in unemployment with a serious impact on the development of many regions, particularly in countries like portugal, and we therefore reaffirm once again that the states, through state aid, among other fundamental measures, have a duty to intervene in these situations, in particular with the support of the european union. we also believe that the obligation to maintain investment in the regions for a minimum period of five years is grossly inadequate and should be increased. it is necessary to ensure that state aid does not promote the relocation of undertakings, in whole or in part, within or outside the european union. we believe that state aid to enterprises should be subject to a long-term commitment to the duration of the investment, the number of jobs created and the guarantee of workers' rights, requiring its reimbursement in the event of non-compliance. we also believe that the relative prosperity of regions and, consequently, their eligibility for aid should be based on gdp per head. if new indicators are to be integrated, we consider the level of qualifications of the population to be relevant. here are some of the proposals we put forward.
state aid is generally seen as a negative element from the point of view of competition. however, the treaty on european union recognises that such aid is acceptable when it is intended to contribute, for example, to the economic development of regions where the standard of living is well below the european average. the principle that active public policies are justified when the pursuit of greater social cohesion is at stake is thus enshrined. the free functioning of the market contains many positive elements for the growth of the economy, but it does not in itself ensure development. in terms of regional policy, this type of state aid therefore emerges as an instrument which can be important for supporting the most disadvantaged regions. in this case, state aid is complementary to regional policy and must be linked to it, and in this context i support the rapporteur in that the regions which have suffered from the statistical effect should be subject to the same system as the regions in the convergence objective. another problem is that of globalisation, which has brought a new issue to the european union and to which i have not tired of drawing attention, and which concerns the possible disappearance of the industrial map of regions and sectors whose economic basis is manufacturing production. to stem this tide, the european union has put forward the idea of the globalisation adjustment fund. i support the initiative, but this fund should be used only in regions which, in view of foreseeable developments, present a high social risk. the fund must therefore be very selective, exceptional in its application, and focus on regions with three fundamental and simultaneous characteristics: high incidence of population concentration, high unemployment rate and high sectoral specialisation.
the preparations for this council demonstrate the seriousness of the situation in the european union and the crisis to which the increasingly neoliberal policies, serving the interests of the economic and financial groups of the most powerful countries, have led. the solidarity of the richer countries is getting weaker. the very principles of the treaty on economic and social cohesion are being completely trampled underfoot. the latest enlargements of the european union have been achieved without new financial means and are preparing to make the situation worse with further cuts proposed by the british presidency for the new member states and for cohesion countries such as portugal. the budgetary crisis is merely an expression of the serious malaise in the european union, which has been aggravated by the fundamentalism of the monetary guidelines of the ecb and the stability pact, and which is being deepened by the restrictions they impose on the community budget. in the meantime, new priorities contained in the european constitution, which has now been rejected - the militarisation of the eu, so-called internal security and immigration control, competition policies - are being reinforced, which will tend to channel financial resources to the priorities of the economically more developed countries and their economic and financial groups, at the expense of social, environmental, cohesion and development aid needs.
the financial framework for 2007-13 is the european council's 'hot plate'. but it's not the only one on the menu: the liberalization of services and the so-called "fight against terrorism" are also there. the british presidency has been the champion of the interests of the eu's most economically developed countries, presenting a proposal that seeks to lower the bar once again and overcome contradictions between them, and this has increased the pressure for an agreement as soon as possible. unice (the big employers' association in europe) comes to tell you that they understand each other. while warning of the danger of losing the eu's 'credibility', it presents its specifications: an agreement on the financial perspective, reaffirming that it 'must be an instrument at the service of the lisbon strategy'; the rapid establishment of the internal market for services (it is also eloquent that, in order to justify the liberalisation of services, unice argues that this is an 'essential element of the lisbon strategy', a 'requirement of the treaties', supported by the decisions of the european court of justice - later they 'sell' that the so-called 'european constitution' has nothing to do with it...); and the liberalisation of international trade within the framework of the wto. that is, the eu without a mask!
in writing. we regret that the proposal to reject this directive on the retention of electronic communications data, which we support, was rejected by the majority of the european parliament. it is recalled that a similar proposal was previously rejected by the european parliament and did not obtain the necessary majority in the council for its approval, when it required a unanimous decision. however, the current proposal for a directive (presented by the european commission on the initiative of the united kingdom) took only three months to be adopted by a majority of meps and a qualified majority in the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we consider this to be an unacceptable proposal - one more - which is part of the current security offensive which is attacking the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens under the pretext of the so-called 'fight against terrorism'. what is intended is to "legalize" the illegality. the aim is to extend the collection and storage of information (telephone communications, e-mail, internet, etc.) for a period of up to two years, which can be extended, in order, among other things, to 'prevent' infringements. a flexibility clause is included which will allow for the almost indiscriminate collection of electronic information. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. before we discuss the report, it should be noted that the fact that the subject in question is the subject of a wide-ranging debate is a first positive sign which should be highlighted. it is a sign, in my view, that europe is aware, is awake, to the risks that an overly security-oriented attitude can bring with it in the matter of individual freedoms. in the report we adopted, i did not see any security issues or any abandonment of the fundamental principles of respect for and defence of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the report we have adopted recognizes the need to strengthen the means available to combat crime, particularly in view of the seriousness of certain types of crime - terrorism being the most prominent of these, of course - and the use of new technological means for the practice of these criminal activities. there is, however, one concern which was expressed in the debate and in the document adopted, and which should be highlighted here. the admission of the possibilities provided for in this report is compatible only with a reinforced monitoring of their use. parliament cannot ignore the follow-up to the directive in question. what we passed today was to protect citizens from criminals and cannot be used for any other purpose.
mr president, mr president of the commission, in defending human rights we must be clear: either there is a violation or there is not. torture is always torture whether it is practiced in iraq, afghanistan, china or pinochet's chile. if torture is practised in a democratic country with the approval of an elected government, it is still torture but it is a disgrace to that country and to that government. our starting point can only be the clear condemnation of any act which may constitute a violation of human rights, whether it be degrading acts, unlawful detention and the keeping of detainees without judicial protection. i therefore commend commissioner frattini for the clarity of his position. the european union, which has created and is consolidating the area of freedom, security and justice, cannot allow these violations to be committed or facilitated within its borders. we have been talking about mrs condoleezza rice's statements, which were clear. but we have the uncomfortable feeling that there are two discourses on this subject, as if there were two currents within the bush administration: the rice current and the dick cheney current. the new york times a week ago said there was too much evidence that torture was or was being practiced at the hands of american interrogators and ngos such as human rights watch, the american civil liberties union and human rights first note worrying and serious situations. it is not good for the united states to keep guantanamo, rumsfeld's refusal to authorize the un humanitarian mission, the doubts of cia director peter goss in a recent interview about whether some degrading treatment can be considered torture or president bush's threat to veto the mccain amendment which prohibits the cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment of prisoners. i cannot but congratulate the united kingdom on the recent decision of the lords judges rendering evidence obtained under torture useless. in the europe of values and freedoms, we want to know what happened and, if something went wrong, to ensure that it does not happen again. in democratic europe we do not condemn anyone a priori, without proof. the european union must therefore do everything possible to cooperate with the council of europe and with the investigation under way. this is the best tribute to the discovery of truth and to the prevalence of our values.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
i would like to inform you that an austrian delegation, led by mr gorbach, vice-chancellor of austria, has taken part in the political meetings in the run-up to the austrian presidency, which will begin on 1 january 2006.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to reiterate what has already been stressed in the debate in the committee, namely the insufficiency of the amount of funds included in the european commission's proposal, in view of the objectives set out in this regulation - the financing of control and enforcement measures, conservation measures, data collection and improvement of scientific advice, so-called governance, international relations and the law of the sea. when it is necessary to significantly increase the financial resources of this important instrument of the common fisheries policy, in view of the enlargement of the european union and the greater ambition of the objectives set, this is not the case. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for 2007-2013 is a step in the right direction. we have therefore tabled an amendment which states that the overall financial envelope for fisheries, in particular for this proposal for a regulation, is clearly insufficient to meet the economic and social crisis facing the sector and the needs arising from the 2002 revision of the common fisheries policy, and we are calling for the fisheries sector to be provided with the appropriate financial means. furthermore, because we consider it essential that fishermen participate in the definition and implementation of the common fisheries policy at its various levels, we have also put forward a proposal to support the creation or promotion of associations representing small-scale coastal fishing, by far the most important sector in the sector, and to support their participation in decision-making processes, in particular in regional advisory councils. finally, it should be noted that the regulation is still imbued with the idea that the conservation of fisheries resources is achieved solely by reducing fishing activity at the level of the european union, while other determining factors are ignored. we believe that the main objective should be to promote the modernization and sustainable development of the sector, while respecting the balance of fisheries resources, in order to guarantee the public supply of fish, to maintain jobs and to improve the living and working conditions of fishermen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe is going through difficult times and, strictly speaking, the economic crisis that has set in remains and the european union must pay attention to the way it manages and distributes its budget in this way. however, in order to move forward with a sound, conscious and sustained strategy, we need to have tools at our disposal that allow us to do serious work, in the image of what i think we all set out to do. this proposal for a regulation lays down the framework for financial assistance for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and complements the proposal for a council regulation on the european fisheries fund, which we had the opportunity to discuss here a few months ago. as i said at the time of the eff, it seems to me essential that the money earmarked for these documents be commensurate with the real needs of the integrated fisheries sector in an enlarged europe with new challenges ahead. while i welcome the commission's efforts to make the financial arrangements under the cfp clearer and more coherent, i cannot but express my displeasure at the way in which it relates the intended objectives to the appropriations earmarked. in view of the more ambitious and far-reaching tasks which have been created by the enlargement of the union, i think it is inappropriate to apply reductions of 6.3% to this financial instrument. with a budget of eur 2 625 million allocated to four main areas of intervention, i would point out that some 60% of this budget is earmarked for international fisheries agreements. the fisheries partnership agreements are a key element, given their budgetary importance. the consistency between the conclusions on the new common fisheries policy expressed at the recent european fisheries and agriculture councils and the union's international relations is safeguarded in this parliament's report, which i think is of paramount importance. finally, the creation and maintenance of regional advisory councils is a key element of the new cfp. it is therefore crucial to ensure not only the financing of the start-up costs of these units but also their future viability. to this end, it will be essential for the commission to clarify better how and to what extent these advisory councils will be financed in all their dimensions.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to say that funding has in fact been increased under this instrument. this is due to a number of reasons: enlargement, new technologies, broader scope of data, the new control agencies and the establishment of the regional advisory councils. on the latter point, i wish to say, as i said before, that the commission is willing to consider the funding of the regional advisory councils during the review to be undertaken after the third year of their operation. with regard to the extent of the funds, were more funds to be made available the commission would surely not complain. however, in reality we will hopefully have a 150% increase in control and enforcement, a 160% increase in data collection and scientific advice, a 110% increase in governance and a 120% increase in international relations. if all goes well, there will be an overall increase of 130% if one compares the 2000-2006 financial period and the 2007-2013 financial period. if there is a reduction, we have a cushion to some extent, so we do not have to deduct from any one specific heading. if there is going to be a drastic cut, all headings will be affected linearly. we will know hopefully before the end of the week what the situation is going to be. so far, from the indications we have, the cuts envisaged under the financial perspective as regards fisheries are relatively small, especially in the second instrument, and hopefully it will stay that way. on the international agreements, the commission believes that the proposal strikes the balance between internal and external policies, between international agreements and conservation, control and governance. at this juncture i wish to highlight that the allocations to the various areas are only indicative and based on current forecasts. adjustments for each programme will in any case be submitted and adopted every year in the annual budgetary procedure. i would like to pick up on the point made by mrs attwooll with regard to amendment 16. since these are commercial relationships, the monies often go directly to the treasury budget as part of the budget of the state. however, we intend to strengthen our dialogue with the commission’s development services, to enhance the effectiveness of these monies in these countries’ general development objectives, in particular in the fisheries sector. with particular reference to the fisheries partnership agreements, i need to underline that each fisheries partnership agreement contains provisions on the payment of funds under the agreement, as well as on the use of the financial share foreseen for the fisheries policy of the third country. on the basis of indicators and benchmarks, as i have said before, both parties will jointly evaluate the results of this policy and where appropriate will make the necessary adjustments. with regard to the remarks made by mr clark, i cannot agree with his assertions. the lower stocks of fish are the result of year upon year of uncontrolled over-fishing and not of the common fisheries policy. that policy, through its measures, seeks to address the need for balance between the availability of stocks and the fleets that target them. finally, the point on coastal fisheries and small-scale fisheries is better addressed under the european fisheries fund, which will hopefully be adopted early in 2006.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the north sea is based on the principle of the conservation of fishery resources in the north sea. in an excellent thesis on the workings of the confraria de cangas in galicia, dora jesus noted that the assumption of exclusive fishing rights in a given area for a given fishing community, i.e. the assumption of rights and duties relating to the ownership of natural resources, coupled with primary control and penalty systems managed by the brotherhood itself, allowed the recovery of the hornet and its ecologically and economically sustainable exploitation in the area under the control of that brotherhood. unfortunately, the european union has opted for a different policy, namely a maximum of dissociation between fishing rights, the allocation of which is considered to be an exclusive european competence and which for some species are determined for virtually the whole of the european marine area, and the control and penalty systems left almost entirely to the discretion of each individual. the amount and the share rates proposed by the european commission to support investment in fisheries control by member states, reduced to €32 million in 2006, are a small amount compared to the responsibilities assigned to some regions and some member states. in addition, there is no community contribution to the implementation of the controls and monitoring of the cfp. let me remind you in this context that, for example, portugal, despite having just over 2% of the european population, has more than 50% of the area of the european exclusive economic zones and that the autonomous region of the azores alone has an eez larger than that of any member state, despite having only 250 000 inhabitants. as a result of this situation, and since access to azorean waters was liberalised on 1 august 2004, and although the presence of many dozens of foreign vessels in this eez has already been recorded by vms, sometimes reaching more than two dozen at a time, only one inspection has been carried out between them, in stark contrast to the numerous inspections carried out on land, or at short distances, on the azorean small-scale fleet by regional, national and community authorities. in the absence of any vms control system and with the vms system operating extremely poorly, owing to some exceptions to fundamental aspects of its operation, with the classical high seas control system acting only weakly and ineffectively, it continues, particularly in the poorest and most peripheral areas of europe such as those just mentioned, without effective protection, either against fishing by unregistered vessels or even against vessels legally registered. at a conference on european maritime policy and strategy held last week by the european socialist party in ponta delgada, we learned that about 150 different species of coral have recently been recorded in the azores sea, several of them endemic and some with life spans of up to thousands of years. among them are dense forests of black coral, some more than six feet [2 m] high. the heritage value of these corals and other deep-sea organisms, as well as their biotechnological potential, is admittedly enormous. it is true that trawling and bottom trawling have finally been banned in this area, but the question is whether these bans are effective when the community's efforts and guarantee to monitor, control and protect these european treasures are practically nil. the announcement of the european commission's proposal for a marine strategy gave us all hope that we would see this situation changed, but it was with great disappointment that we found that this proposal envisages no community funding, that is to say, it will insist on the same logic as the present one, whereby in europe, only the use of marine resources is for everyone, the responsibilities for protection are exclusively for the people who live there. in the field of maritime safety and nature protection, we are now unfortunately faced with a major tragedy in the azores, with the shipwreck of a large container ship with a flag of convenience on a quay classified as a site of community interest integrated into the natura 2000 network, carrying some containers with a dangerous chemical load. despite the various legislative packages, the erika, the prestige, and the creation of the european maritime safety agency, the truth is that there is still no european response capacity, both to these disasters and to those resulting from unsustainable fishing. for these reasons we believe that it is urgent to set up a genuine european coastguard, where fisheries control activities are linked to other control operations at sea and where fishing is open to the whole of the european fleet - an effective, modern and harmonised system of controls and sanctions. the liberalisation of access to waters without these requirements being met is absolutely unacceptable and can only result in the rapid deterioration of europe's marine natural heritage.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur and the committee on fisheries for its report on this proposal from the commission. i am pleased to note that the committee has given a favourable assessment to this scheme, which is aimed at improving the member states’ control capabilities, and that it fully supports the extension of its validity for a further year. i also note that the committee is favourable to financing, under the community budget, administrative arrangements with the joint research centre with a view to developing new technologies in the area of control, and to the financing of studies on control-related areas, to be carried out at the commission’s initiative. the committee has, however, tabled seven amendments to the proposal. i regret that it is very difficult to accept any of the amendments, mainly for formal reasons, which i would like to explain. amendment 2 proposes a change to the time limit for the presentation of national programmes. we would like to keep the existing date of 31 january, as the submission of requests early on in the year will allow the commission to adopt a decision granting the financial contribution in the first semester. this will, in turn, ease the planning requirements for national administrations. it should also be noted that the national administrations are already fully aware of this time limit. on amendment 3 and the related amendments 1 and 6, the commission shares the committee’s view that these expenses should be financed under a different heading. this can be done through a budgetary arrangement. however, it is not possible to finance these two new actions if they were not foreseen in the legal text. the commission deems that this proposal is the appropriate legal text to introduce them and cannot, therefore, accept these amendments. in amendment 4, the committee asks the commission to establish criteria in order to allocate grants when the amount of request exceeds the available appropriations. the commission’s policy is to allocate grants only when the need for investment has been proven, namely through the national report on control activities, irrespective of the overall amount requested. establishing criteria will introduce some rigidity to the selection of projects and could entail a risk that grants will be given for projects that are not of general interest. this amendment cannot, therefore, be accepted. amendment 5 refers to the contribution rate for the most expensive items, i.e. patrol vessels and aircraft. increasing the rate to up to 75% of the eligible expenditure will reduce appropriations for other actions. the commission considers a rate not exceeding 50% to be appropriate, as a general rule, for all kinds of investment. it cannot, therefore, accept this amendment. finally, the commission cannot accept 7, since at the end of 2006 most of the projects will not yet have been completed, meaning a report on the decision will be of little use. i should like to recall that the commission will present a report on this decision to the european parliament by 30 june 2008 at the latest. concerning mr morillon’s oral question to the commission, may i say that i fully share the view that sanctions, including in the fisheries sector, must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offences committed. they must also effectively discourage any further infringement of the same nature. moreover, sanctions should be non-discriminatory between nationals and non-nationals of member states. we cannot achieve compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy without creating a level playing field across the european union for all fishermen.with a view to promoting transparency and to encouraging the application of adequate and dissuasive sanctions against those who commit serious infringements, the commission publishes an annual communication on serious infringements to the rules of the community fisheries policy. the commission has published four of these communications so far. in its comments on the tables annexed to the communications, the commission stressed the need to reduce existing disparities regarding the level of sanctions imposed across the community. on the same communications, the commission has also declared its preference for the use of administrative procedures and sanctions when dealing with breaches of the common fisheries policy rules, since they are imposed in a swifter manner and are more effective. the commission believes that a sanction, such as the suspension of an authorisation to fish, decided by the administrative authority and entering into force immediately, subject to the possibility of a judicial review, is a stronger deterrent. the choice, however, between a penal or administrative procedure lies with the member state. in conformity with article 25(4) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002, the basic regulation on the cfp, the commission intends to present in due time a proposal aimed at harmonising at community level sanctions for serious infringements.
the control of fishing activities is an important pillar for the sustainability of the fisheries sector and, in view of the need to recover certain endangered fish stocks, it is urgent to continue to support member states in order to enable them to exercise their obligation to control, monitor and inspect fishing activities in their areas of jurisdiction. the result of strategic reflection dates back to 2001, when control strategies were already one of the main focuses of the green paper of that year. the creation of a community fisheries control agency in april 2005 could, i believe, herald the beginning of a new era. although it organizes and coordinates the control and inspection activities of the various member states, the institution does not eliminate the powers and obligations of those states. at a time when a decision on the financial perspective and the new community framework for the period 2007-2013 is still pending, these amounts are still unknown and it is therefore appropriate to consider the extension of decision 465/2004 at this stage. i would like to congratulate my compatriot paulo casaca on his good work as rapporteur for this document. despite what the commissioner has said, i believe that the adjustments made to the original text are appropriate and make the document more balanced and more in line with its real purpose. however, and although the adoption of the document deserves my full and unequivocal support, i would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the member states are still struggling with immense financial difficulties to be able to implement all the desired measures. the recent 2003 european commission communication and the reports of non-compliance with the cfp are proof that there is still much to be done. in order to ensure that member states comply with their obligations under the rules of the common fisheries policy, it is therefore absolutely necessary that the european commission continue to support their investments in the field of control and surveillance.
i should like to say, mr president, that i was very surprised to hear the commissioner speak and i would like him to clarify whether what he said was not a terrible mistake, because amendments nos 2 and 6 have been explicitly and repeatedly supported by the european commission, both in the committee on fisheries and by e-mail. it was on the basis of this explicit support that we worked together on budgetary amendments to adapt exactly amendments nos 2 and 6, and now the commissioner is telling us that, after all, the commission does not support what it has said all along that it supports. well, there must be a misunderstanding here, and i would appreciate it if the commissioner would clarify it, because otherwise it seems to me extremely difficult to work with the commission in the future.
in writing. the present statement of vote is intended to serve as a vehicle for reflection on the negotiations and agreements on community budgets. the european council has been the most vocal voice in the world on the subject of contradictions. the political forces and the big economic interests behind this so-called 'construction' are alarmed at the consequences of disagreements between the so-called 'big' eu countries. a second crisis, after the strong no of the french and dutch peoples to the so-called 'european constitution', would deepen the 'unreliability' of the path they want to impose on us as the only one. so they are calling for the concertation of agendas, not to forget the wto. the european parliament is trying to hide its complicity in the systematic reduction of the community budget over the last few years (although this does not reflect the commitments of the right-wing forces and social democracy in the commission, the council and in each of the eu countries), but the (cold) figures are there: the ep, forgetting its previous proposals and keeping its coherence in the closet, proposes for 2006 practically what the luxembourg presidency proposed for 2007-2013. and experience shows that the story will not end here, for he has always glorified today what he considered unacceptable yesterday.
in writing. unlike the ongoing negotiations on the financial perspective, the eu's 2006 budget gives the european parliament some cause for joy and satisfaction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. but what deserves to be emphasized here, and thus justifies my full support, is the financial reinforcement of a number of programmes with direct implications for european citizens, such as the life and socrates programmes. another reason for joy was the budgetary increase for initiatives crucial to successfully achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, particularly in the area of research and support for smes. as regards structural measures, i agree with the principle of not increasing the amount of future funds for the new member states until there is an improvement in the implementation rates of the current funds. finally, by approving this 2006 budget, the ep is sending a highly symbolic signal to the ongoing debate on the next financial perspective (2007-2013). in fact, without their approval during the british presidency, it will be precisely the 2006 budget that will serve as the basis for the negotiations of the next annual budgets using the mechanism known as the 'twelfth'.
in writing. according to the ngos, this is the first specific regulatory instrument at community level concerning disabled people, who number approximately 50 million in the european union. the aim is to ensure that transport for disabled people (as proposed by the european parliament) and for people with reduced mobility due to any other factor have access to air transport. this regulation lays down rules for the protection and assistance of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility travelling by air, both to protect them from discrimination and to ensure that they receive assistance at airports of embarkation, transit and arrival, which should be provided at no additional cost to the passenger. among other examples, a set of measures is also provided to adequately inform disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility about their rights. the need for training of ground and flight personnel, as well as the preparation of infrastructure and aircraft to provide this service is pointed out. the initiative we voted for.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague robert evans on the important report he has produced on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of persons with reduced mobility in air transport, which i support, particularly as regards all the amendments aimed at ensuring an integrated service to facilitate access to air transport, at no additional cost, for disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility. given the importance of this regulation in the air transport market and the objective the eu is pursuing, this proposal should take into account the difficulties of people with reduced mobility but also the difficulties experienced by all those who need guidance, communication or additional assistance when travelling.
in writing. as we have already said, we disagree with the premises of the reform of the common organization of the market in sugar, since this is part of the liberalisation of agricultural trade at world level - which promotes competition and the concentration of production in the framework of the international division of labour - and is used by the eu as a bargaining chip to gain advantages in trade in industrial products and services. a policy which penalizes small and mediumsized farmers in this sector in the most economically developed countries. it also encourages the development of monoculture, the concentration of ownership and the abandonment of agricultural activities by thousands of farmers in poor and developing countries, thus jeopardizing their food sovereignty and security. this report seeks to improve some of the proposals of the european commission in relation to the countries which have signed the sugar protocol, but it is still clearly insufficient, since it does not reject or question the basis of the proposal, i.e. its liberalising logic. essentially, the report proposes to increase the 'mitigating' measures in view of the 'serious social, economic and environmental consequences' that the 'adjustment process' will entail for these countries. in a word, farmers lose and food sovereignty wins, agribusiness and large-scale distribution.
in writing. this report deserves my favourable opinion as it reiterates the council conclusions that the eu's bilateral fisheries relations should evolve from access agreements to 'partnership agreements', thus contributing to responsible fishing in the third country concerned, while also ensuring fishing opportunities for the eu's long-distance fleet. this agreement safeguards the fishing rights of some 52 community vessels, including five portuguese surface longliners, for a period of six years. the fact that this agreement is an instrument for protecting the activity and employment of the fleets operating under it and that it safeguards the general principles defined for the conservation of fisheries resources under the cfp deserves my support.
in writing. we voted in favour of this fisheries protocol because it guarantees fishing opportunities off the seychelles to the various fleets of the member states operating in these waters until 17 january 2011, in particular to five portuguese surface longliners. the renewal of this fisheries protocol is important to ensure the survival of the member states' long-distance fishing fleets, a segment of the fleet which has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years. the portuguese case is an example of this, where the number of vessels has been reduced from year to year. however, even taking into account that this new protocol is for six years, as well as the levels of utilization of the fishing opportunities offered, we cannot fail to note the reduction in the number of surface longliners used and an increase in the cost of licences - which we do not consider justified - which implies higher costs for armaments, with the corresponding loss of profitability. it should be noted that the proposed increase in the cost of licences is € 1,000 for surface longliners with more than 150 grt and € 750 for surface longliners with less than 150 grt.
in writing. in view of the inconvenience to businesses and shipowners involved in fishing activities in third countries resulting from the interruptions between the expiry of one protocol and the entry into force of the next, i believe that the commission proposal should be adopted as soon as possible. however, i also agree with the rapporteur's position that a more stable solution should be found than the one contained in the ec proposal, which avoids the use of a series of interim procedures which cause problems for community operators and the third country sector. the period between the entry into force of the protocol and its approval by the council should be shortened so that both provisional application and early issuance of licences are only remedies in exceptional cases.
in writing. we regret that our proposal to increase the overall financial envelope for fisheries has been rejected. the rejection reveals the inconsistency of the european parliament and of the rapporteur herself, who, while acknowledging that the funds are insufficient to deal with the economic and social crisis in the sector, does not take on the necessary increase, when this is one of the central issues of this report. we also welcome the adoption of our proposal to finance measures to promote or create associations representing small-scale coastal fishing and to ensure their participation in the decision-making process of the common fisheries policy. the proposal was in line with the conclusions of the public hearing on this fleet segment organised by the european parliament's committee on fisheries. i would point out that there are issues within the framework of the measures in this regulation which raise serious concerns for us because of their implications for respect for the sovereignty of states, such as the role of the community fisheries control agency or the rapporteur's proposal for a framework regulation on fisheries agreements with third countries. that is why we abstained.
in writing. this is one of the most negative resolutions of the european parliament in defence of present community policy and it was unfortunately adopted, albeit by only a slight margin. there are key aspects of the resolution which are a real attack on basic democratic principles and the treaty on european union itself. the call for 'a properly coordinated interinstitutional campaign and strategy to facilitate the rapid adoption of the european constitution, on the basis of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe' is one example, forgetting the no of the people of france and the netherlands in the referenda on the said european constitution. equally serious is the call for improvements in computer systems and greater use of biometric data, for example vis and sis ii, under the pretext of reducing immigration, or the reinforcement of repressive measures and the reduction of fundamental rights under the pretext of combating terrorism. in the area of internal market and monetary policies, there is the insistence on the well-known instruments of neoliberalism, in particular liberalization under the pretext of increasing competitiveness, the integration of financial services markets, the enlargement of the euro zone. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the community budget provides for specific funds and programmes for consumer protection, in particular by supporting organisations or bodies which carry out consumer protection activities and promoting their participation in the community decision-making process. it seems to us therefore fair that the new member states should benefit fully from the same support for their activities and that a high level of consumer protection should be promoted in all the member states of the european union. this is particularly important in the new member states, given the level of deregulation, privatisation and liberalisation their economies have undergone in the said process of transition to a market economy and now with accession and, in this context, the almost non-existence of consumer protection bodies. however, we do not follow the rapporteur's basic philosophy on the concept of the 'consumer' and consumer protection, both in terms of consolidating the internal market and promoting the spirit of enterprise, and in terms of trying to create a 'consumer culture' in these countries in the logic of a market economy, which breaks the cultural roots that existed in the period before the transition, where the concept of the human person was not linked to his function as a consumer, which today is so much tried to 'sell', in order to promote the consumerism that underpins the contradictions of capitalism.
in writing. we regret that most of our proposals have not been adopted, particularly as regards the problems of relocation and the protection of public services, issues where state aid has an impact and the report, in the first case, does not make any concrete proposals, and in the second, it is simply omitted. although we welcome the fact that, in the light of the commission's original proposal on regional state aid, the so-called 'statistical effect' regions continue to have the same status as convergence regions in respect of such aid until 2013 (without any review period), this fact is not enough to change our negative vote. the vote was justified by the ep's acceptance of the commission's proposed policy on state aid, which, in the name of distortion of competition, aims to reduce its amount and to make member states subject to conditions by defining what support can be given at horizontal level. it should be stressed that the new state aid reform proposed by the european commission greatly reduces the scope for state aid. this is a reform which generally runs counter to a public policy which sees state aid as essential to support the regional development efforts of the 'cohesion' countries.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague milos koterec on his excellent report on the role of direct state aid as an instrument of regional development. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the rapporteur's position that in the new programming period the ceilings on aid intensity applicable to the outermost regions of the european union should be the same as those in force in the previous period (2000-06). it also supports the rapporteur's view that the outermost regions should automatically be given the status provided for in article 87 (3) (a) of the ec treaty. it is also what is called for in the text of the treaty which adopted a constitution for europe.
in writing. the british presidency has achieved a historic achievement in achieving unanimity in the criticisms it has received. all member states and all political parties are unanimous in recognizing the absence of any tangible result. in june, prime minister blair's reform speech created the greatest expectations. after six months, the result is zero. the negotiations on the financial perspectives 2007-13 are a telling example of how the uk has conducted its presidency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the answer is clear. the luxembourg proposal was the one with the legs to walk on, as it received the explicit support of 22 member states, while the uk proposal was rejected by all member states and all political groups in the european parliament. the united kingdom cannot find a solution to the problem it has created. the european project and the citizens who believe in it have no sympathy for the national selfishness so far shown by this presidency.
in writing. in view of the accumulation of facts and reports concerning the activities of the us security services and agencies, in particular the cia, in the transport, abduction and illegal detention of citizens, in particular in european countries, who are subsequently subjected to isolation and torture, it is necessary to denounce and condemn firmly these deplorable and criminal practices that violate the most elementary rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, the us administration, despite its play on words, has never denied the existence of such flights, kidnappings or the existence of illegal arrests. in the face of this very serious reality, what is required is to establish the whole truth and to take measures to prevent such criminal activities from continuing.
in writing. every year the european parliament includes in its own-initiative report its "order of business" for the candidate countries. there is no record of any initiative or concern on the part of the bulgarian people regarding the eu's "order list". once again we are faced with a pure and unacceptable exercise of interference, otherwise let us see: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states. but beware, that's not all! it recommends 'measures to make the labour market more flexible' and 'increasing labour mobility'. the commission also stresses that the eu should continue to support the development of the internal market and the fight against fraud. since they are concerned with the so-called "resolution of problems related to land ownership", who will be looking after it? other examples could be cited, but these should suffice to show the european union at its 'best'!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. the rapporteur, however, expressed concern at the persistent delays in several areas, specifying the need to improve administrative capacity, the fight against corruption and the application of the acquis communautaire in certain sectors of agriculture, public procurement and the environment. as you can see, the demands made are a pure interference in romania's political choices in areas which should be respected, in particular its right to food sovereignty and security, public procurement and administrative capacity, which are aimed more at satisfying the interests of economic and financial groups in the most powerful countries than at improving the welfare of the romanian people. that is why we abstained.
in writing. i would like to start by welcoming the initiative taken by the ep to implement this report, as i consider the role of women in this and other sectors to be fundamental to the sustained development of the economic and social fabric of the eu. in the specific case of this report, the proposals to the european commission on gender equality and equal rights at work seem to me to be correct. support for the creation of networks of women in the fisheries sector within the eu, as well as their inclusion in coastal action groups and the new regional advisory councils, should be taken into account. i also welcome the approach to the ec to ensure specific support to support the set of initiatives proposed in mrs attwooll's report.
in writing. women in the fishing industry and in fishing communities play a role very similar to that of women in farming communities, i.e. supporting the back-up activities related to catching - often unpaid work - in addition to domestic activities, with health risks and no guarantee of social protection. women in the catching industry represent less than 3% of the workforce. on the contrary, in the processing or aquaculture sector they take the largest weight in the workforce, showing the progressive feminization of the workforce. gender issues remain a backdrop in the sector and the participation of women in fisheries organisations and associations is very low. in this regard, we supported the creation of networks and associations of women in the fisheries sector at local and national level, with community support, in order to: give greater visibility to the role of women in this sector; increase women's participation in the decision-making processes of the common fisheries policy; and draw attention to the need to preserve fisheries as an economic, social and cultural activity fundamental to the development of fishing communities in different countries.
author. – mr president, as head of the european union election observation mission in ethiopia, i helped to persuade ethiopian opposition leaders not to boycott the may elections, assuring them that the world and the european union in particular were watching. they felt that the electoral process had been set up by the regime not to achieve democracy but to fool the international community. despite being elected by the ethiopian people, they are now in jail. they have been on hunger strike since 28 november, face a possible death penalty, and yet are neglected by european leaders. this is in spite of the fact that, in early september, i warned european governments, the commission, the us government and the un secretary-general that the regime might be planning the selective repression of ethiopian opposition leaders. how could european governments fail so miserably those who trusted the european union, those who fought and continue to fight for democracy in ethiopia? how could european and american leaders fail so miserably the ethiopian people and such an important country: the second most populous in africa and the headquarters of the african union? what message are they sending to all africans? how can the un secretary-general and the security council continue to turn a blind eye to massive human rights violations inside ethiopia, forgetting how this could lead to another devastating war with neighbouring eritrea? how can mr blair, the british prime minister and president-in-office of the european council, continue to allow in his commission for africa mr meles zenawi, who is keeping imprisoned and threatening with the death penalty the elected opposition leaders, journalists, human rights and development campaigners and even the ethiopian representatives of the global call to action against poverty? this is the third resolution since july in which the european parliament, across all political groups, has expressed its deep concern about the situation in ethiopia. how can european leaders fail to act upon repeated appeals from this parliament when the lives of ethiopian prisoners are at stake? (applause)
